---

title: Techniques for personalizing content
abstract: Techniques for personalizing content are presented. A principal requests access to content. Policy is evaluated in response to the request for the content. Scripts are processed in response to the policy evaluation to rewrite and modify the content. The modified content is then delivered to the requesting principal to personalize the content for the principal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043935&OS=09043935&RS=09043935
owner: Novell, Inc.
number: 09043935
owner_city: Provo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070518
---
The invention relates generally to data processing and more particularly to techniques for personalizing content.

Increasingly enterprises and end users have a need to access data from a variety of locations using a variety of devices. The physical location of the data and the users has become irrelevant in today s highly connected environment and with the advent and pervasiveness of the World Wide Web WWW . The challenge for content providers has now become how that data can be customized for particular devices and particular users.

Generally devices accessed by the user such as cell phones laptops personal digital assistants PDA s etc. now come equipped with specialized or custom applications and browsers that permit data delivery in an optimal manner to specific devices. This is necessary because of font sizes of data and screen sizes that certain devices may or may not support or because of data rendering services that may or may not be accessible on some devices.

Typically this custom data rendering is provided on a user independent basis. This means that some WWW sites are designed to detect a generic device type that is requesting data and then reroute such a device to a parallel site that supports that device or that renders the data in a custom fashion for the specific device requesting the data. These solutions are not really tailored to the user but rather are tailored to the device where the data is being delivered to.

Moreover with various versions of software rendering services various devices and various configurations for those devices content providers are finding it difficult to keep up with the demand and their support staff and expenses have proliferated when providing device specific data delivery services.

Additionally solutions that are geared toward user customization require applets to be embedded and installed within a user s WWW browser. These solutions require the user to be accessing a specific browser which is usually configured on a specific device. This approach can customize data to the liking of the user but it relinquishes control to the user s environment such that the user can modify or alter it which may not always be advantageous or desired by the content provider. Furthermore this technique is also not portable which means that it is really tied to a specific processing environment or a specific device of a user so when the user attempts to access the Internet from a non user machine or alternative environment the applets are not available at all to the user to customize data delivery.

Thus what is needed is a mechanism which allows for improved customized and personalized data delivery.

In various embodiments techniques for personalizing content are provided. More specifically and in an embodiment a method is presented for personalizing content delivered to a principal. A request for content is received from a principal the principal is associated with a client processing environment and the request is received over a network connection. Next an identity of the principal is confirmed and a content delivery policy is evaluated in response to the confirmed identity for the principal. Finally the content is modified in response to the policy evaluation and the modified content is delivered to the principal within the client processing environment.

A resource includes a user content a processing device a node a service an application a system a principal a directory a data store groups of users combinations of these things etc. A principal is a type of resource that engages in a communication session with one or more other resources for purposes of gaining access to those resources such as acquiring access to content. The resources that the principal seeks to access may also have their own and sub resources. In an embodiment a principal may be viewed as a user or as an automated application or service. The terms service and application may be used interchangeably herein and refer to a type of software resource that includes instructions which when executed by a machine performs operations that change the state of the machine and that may produce output to drive the processing of other machines or resources.

A resource is recognized via an identity. An identity is authenticated via various techniques e.g. challenge and response interaction cookies assertions etc. that use various identifying information e.g. identifiers with passwords biometric data hardware specific data digital certificates digital signatures etc. . A true identity is one that is unique to a resource across any context that the resource may engage in over a network e.g. Internet Intranet etc. . However each resource may have and manage a variety of identities where each of these identities may only be unique within a given context given service interaction given processing environment given communication session etc. .

An identity for a principal is at least partially resolved via an authentication technique in which the principal supplies or is identified by a single identifier and one or more authentication secrets e.g. passwords biometric data digital signatures digital certificates etc. .

An identifier may be viewed as a principal name or principal ID that the principal may assume for any given context. In an embodiment a principal has a single identifier and multiple authentication secrets that can be used with that single identifier. In another embodiment the principal has multiple identifiers and any given identifier can be used with each of the principal s available authentication secrets.

The principal s identity for any given context is resolved by authentication techniques that engage an identity service. The identity service uses a single supplied identifier and one or more of multiple available authentication secrets to resolve a particular identity for the principal in a given context.

The identity may also be a special type of identity that the resource assumes for a given context. For example the identity may be a crafted identity or a semantic identity. An example for creating and using crafted identities may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 225 993 entitled Crafted Identities filed on Sep. 14 2005 and the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. An example for creating and using semantic identities may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 261 970 entitled Semantic Identities filed on Oct. 28 2005 and the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

An identity service refers to a special type of service that is designed to manage and supply authentication services and authentication information for resources. So an identity service may authenticate a given principal for access to a variety of local and external resources known to that identity service. In addition the identity service itself may be viewed as a type of resource. In this manner identity service may authenticate and establish trust with one another viewing one another as specific type of resource. An identity service may also enlist the assistance of other resources or services to perform any given authentication on a principal.

According to an embodiment some example identity services which may be used with the teachings presented herein are described in Techniques for Dynamically Establishing and Managing Authentication and Trust Relationships filed on Jan. 27 2004 and having the U.S. Ser. No. 10 765 523 Techniques for Establishing and Managing a Distributed Credential Store filed on Jan. 29 2004 and having the U.S. Ser. No. 10 767 884 and Techniques for Establishing and Managing Trust Relationships filed on Feb. 3 2004 and having the U.S. Ser. No. 10 770 677 all of which are commonly assigned to Novell Inc. of Provo Utah and the disclosures of which are all incorporated by reference herein.

An identity service may also provide single sign on services to a resource. That is a resource may sign on to an identity service and acquire identities and credentials to access a variety of other services or resources. In some cases the identity service is modified or enhanced to perform some of the teachings presented herein and below.

For any particular resolved identity a variety of other attributes may be assigned by the identity service or other services or resources that the identity service uses. That is when the principal desires access to a resource or engages in a communication session with that resource the access or session may require or may beneficially utilize other information beyond just the identity associated with the principal. Some example attributes or attribute types may include by way of example only and not by way of limitation a role that may define access rights and permissions an employee number an address a phone number a credit card number income social security number etc.

Policy may drive in any given context and for any given identity what attributes are made available for a given access or communication session of the principal with a given resource. Moreover a single principal may have the same type of attributes such that a given type is selected depending upon the context. For example a principal may have multiple addresses or phone numbers where any given address or phone number is set depending on the context detected and the policy applied.

A proxy as used herein may be a special type of resource that acts on behalf of other resources such as principals content content distributors content providers etc. A proxy may be dedicated on its own machine within a network to process or may share a machine on which it processes with other resources. As will be demonstrated below a proxy may be transparent in which case it is located or accessible from a processing environment of a principal and intercepts communications emanating from the principal unbeknownst to that principal. A proxy may also be a forward proxy in which case it is located or accessible from a processing environment of the principal but the principal or its resources are preconfigured to know about and directly communicate with the forward proxy. Additionally the proxy may be a reverse proxy in which case it is located outside a processing environment of the principal and is within an environment or accessible to an environment of a content provider or distributor and acts on behalf of the content provider in a fashion that is unknown to the principal and may in some cases be unknown to the content provider.

 Content refers to information such as text audio graphics video scripts programs images etc. that is requested and desired by a principal over a network connection such as the Internet. In an embodiment content represents a World Wide Web WWW page provided by a WWW site via a content distributor or provider. The content may include primary data such as the text audio etc. and may also include presentation details embodied in secondary or metadata about the primary data such as bolding page placement effects fonts etc.

Various embodiments of this invention can be implemented in existing network architectures security systems data centers and or communication devices. For example in some embodiments the techniques presented herein are implemented in whole or in part in the Novell proxy server products operating system products data center products and or directory services products distributed by Novell Inc. of Provo Utah.

Of course the embodiments of the invention can be implemented in a variety of architectural platforms operating and server systems devices systems or applications. Any particular architectural layout or implementation presented herein is provided for purposes of illustration and comprehension only and is not intended to limit aspects of the invention.

It is within this context that various embodiments of the invention are now presented with reference to the .

Initially the content modifying service may be processed and configured to process as a reverse proxy within an environment associated with the content distributor or provider. Alternatively the content modifying service may be processed and configured to process as a transparent or forward process within an environment associated with a requesting principal. The principal is requesting content from the content distributor or provider over a network connection such as the Internet. Thus the content modifying service and its features may be tailored for an entire content provider or sets of content providers or tailored for a particular principal or set of principals independent of the any specific content provider s .

At the content modifying service receives a request for content from a principal associated with a client processing environment. The request is received over a network connection such as a WAN e.g. Internet etc. or even LAN e.g. within a firewall environment etc. .

According to an embodiment at the request is received from the principal from a World Wide Web WWW browser associated with and processing within the client processing environment of the principal. The request is received over an Internet connection. At the request is received as a result of the principal activating a uniform resource locator URL or identifier URI link within the WWW browser or by the principal manually supplying the URL or URI to the browser address bar. The fact that the principal s request is received and is being processed by the content modifying service is unbeknownst to the principal and the client processing environment. This scenario can occur when the content modifying service is configured to process as a reverse proxy.

At the content modifying service confirms an identity of the principal. This can be done in a number of ways such as via a cookie value supplied from a WWW browser on behalf of the principal to the content modifying service. The principal may already be authenticated and in a secure session with the content modifying service or with a particular content provider where the content is being requested from. In some cases at additional security may be used such that the principal is actually authenticated to a particular identity. This latter scenario may occur when the content is a protected resource requiring authentication. The content modifying service may perform the authentication itself or may enlist the services of a third party service to perform the authentication such as an identity service examples of which were described and incorporated by reference above .

Once the identity for the principal is confirmed and optionally authenticated at the content modifying service acquires and evaluates a content delivery policy associated with the identity. In other words the content delivery is identity based or driven. This is achieved by associating policy for identities associated with principals. The identity resolution determines which policies are selected for evaluation. In this way and as is described in greater detail herein and below content delivery can be customized and tailored to identities of principals permitting content to be personalized.

In an embodiment at the policy may be evaluated for a variety of criteria or limitations customized for a particular principal s identity and to other factors. For example policy may be defined or customized for a given profile of the principal a specific device type being used by the principal when the request was received a specific configuration of the client processing environment associated with the principal such as software services installed versions of the services device types etc. attributes associated with the content as assigned by a content provider or attributes of a service that distributes the content on behalf of the provider date and time limitations as to when and how the content is to be delivered geographic limitations spoken language limitations e.g. English versus Spanish etc. and or membership or role limitations that the principal may belong to or actively associated with when the request is received.

In some cases at the actual modification of the content described more completely with below is achieved by selecting scripts to process and rewrite the content in response to the content delivery policy evaluation before the modified content is delivered to the principal within the client processing environment. In other words the content modifying service may enlist or use custom developed and supplied processing scripts to achieve the desired personalization and customization of the content in response to how the policy evaluation was resolved. It is noted that multiple levels of policies may be evaluated and used and that the levels may be hierarchical in nature in some instances.

At and once the policy is evaluated in response to the resolved and confirmed identity of the requesting principal the content modifying service proceeds to modify the content. This assumes that the content modifying service has acquired the content from the content provider on behalf of the principal or that the content modifying service intercepts the content delivered from the content provider to the principal before the principal can view or access the content. This action produces modified content that is customized and personalized for the requesting principal.

At the content modifying service can produce the modified content in a number of manners. For example the original requested content may be augmented with additional content such as advertisements graphics etc. Still further the original requested content may have some portions of the original content removed such as video advertisements etc. In still other situations the original content may not have its primary content altered at all rather the display presentation of the primary content is altered and presented in a customized or personalized manner with the modified content.

Once the modified content is produced at the content modifying service delivers or releases the modified content to the principal within the client processing environment. At this point the principal may or may not be aware of the personalization and customization that was achieved on behalf of the principal but the principal does not see or access the original requested content rather the modified content is provided to the principal. In other cases the actual customization that the content modifying service achieved with the modified content may have been previously defined and provided by the principal such that not only is the principal aware of it but in fact the principal controlled it.

At the content personalization service detects an attempted access to a particular WWW page associated with a particular WWW site. The WWW site administers the WWW page that a requesting principal desires access to.

In some cases at the content personalization service processes as a reverse proxy on behalf of the WWW site within an environment of the WWW site or within an environment that is accessible to the WWW site.

In other cases as described with the method of the the content personalization service may process on behalf of the requesting principal as a transparent or even forward proxy service not shown in but described in detail above with reference to the .

In an embodiment at and as is described more completely below the content personalization service may utilize scripts to perform the custom and personalized content modification before the content is actually provided to the requesting principal. These scripts can come from a variety of sources. For example the scripts may have been previously supplied by the requesting principal or an administrator associated with the principal or even the WWW site from the WWW page that is being requested by the principal. Some scripts may be available off the shelf for purchase deployment and use by the content personalization service while other scripts may be custom developed to meet a particular content rendering need or desire.

At the content personalization service acquires policy for the WWW page. Acquisition of the initial policy that is evaluated is based on identity or is driven by limitations defined by the WWW site in response to the WWW page being requested or in response at to attributes or configurations associated with the requesting principal the requesting principal s device the requesting principal s environment etc. when the attempted access of the WWW page is detected.

At the content personalization service identifies acquires and processes scripts to rewrite the requested WWW page in response to evaluation of the policy. Once the scripts have processed the WWW page is modified in its content or its content presentation to achieve personalization of the WWW page for the requesting principal s subsequent consumption access and viewing.

Thus in an embodiment at the scripts may be processed to alter the format of the original requested WWW page that is subsequently delivered to the requesting principal such that the format is customized for a particular device that the requesting principal is using. The format may also be customized for a particular preference of the requesting principal.

At and once the scripts have processed to customize and personalize the WWW page and its content and or format presentation the content personalization service delivers the personalized WWW page to the requesting principal. This can be done by delivering the personalized WWW page to the principal s WWW browser. The principal s WWW browser then displays the personalized WWW page on a display of a device that the principal is accessing.

In some embodiments at the content personalization service also maintains and manages a repository for the scripts that is associated with the requesting principal. So a principal can externally maintain content personalization scripts at an external and remote location with the content personalization service that is independent of the principal s browser a particular principal device or a particular principal processing environment configuration. This makes the customization more portable and valuable to the principal.

The content personalization system includes a proxy and a script . In some cases the content personalization system may also include a policy repository . Each of these will now be discussed in turn.

The proxy is implemented in a machine accessible and readable medium and is to process on a machine over a network connection such as an Internet connection. The proxy and its processing were described in detail above with reference to the methods and of the .

Specifically the proxy is processed to intercept a request that is made for content such as but not limited to a WWW page associated with a WWW site. The proxy is also to evaluate policy acquired which may be acquired from a policy repository described below for purposes of identifying one or more script . The proxy acquires the content requested or intercepts it and evaluates the policy to determine the script and to process the script . Once the script described below processes the content is modified and personalized for a requesting principal the modified content is then delivered by the proxy to the requesting principal to a service or environment accessible to the requesting principal.

In an embodiment the proxy is a reverse proxy located or accessible to an environment that administers the content. The proxy is thus remote from an environment and or device associated with the principal over a WAN connection such as an Internet connection.

In a different embodiment the proxy is a transparent or a forward proxy located within an environment or device associated with the principal and is remote from a different environment that is associated with administering the content being requested.

According to an embodiment the proxy also authenticates the principal for initial access to the content. This occurs when the content is a protected resource or where policy dictates authentication before the content can even be accessed. In such a situation the authentication occurs before the policy is evaluated. It may also be that as part of the policy evaluation the authentication is performed. In some cases the proxy may enlist third party trusted services to perform the authentication of the principal such as via an identity service discussed and incorporated by reference above .

The proxy may also process and exist in duplicate across a network. Thus one instance of the proxy may alter the content via the script described below as a reverse proxy on behalf of the content distributor or provider and another instance of the proxy may further alter the already modified content as a transparent or forward proxy on behalf of the requesting principal. Thus multiple instances of the proxy may be configured to interact and process with one another or in concert with one another such that multiple layers of customization and personalization of the content can occur.

The script is implemented in a machine accessible and readable medium and is to process on a machine. The machine that the script processes on may be the same machine that processes the proxy or a different machine not associated with the proxy . The script is invoked by the proxy after and or during and in response to the policy evaluation performed by the proxy . The script may be customized and or supplied by an administrator the requesting principal and or the content provider or distributor.

When the script is processed it alters the primary content or the format and presentation details associated with the primary content via secondary content that is associated with the primary content. In an embodiment the script that alters the primary content may be a JAVA script. In other cases the script may be an extensible style sheet XSL transformation XSLT application for a given WWW page identified as the content. In other cases the script may be an executable application or applet that processes transforms and renders the content to different and modified primary content or presentation formats. The script may be customized for a given principal or given piece of content alternatively the script may be an off the shelf application or XSL that is identified and processed for the content to customize and personalize the content on behalf of requesting principal.

It is also noted that more than one script may be processed against the same requested content. Additionally the multiple scripts may have a defined processing order within which any particular script is executed. So the output of modified content for one script may be used as the input of modified content for another script .

According to an embodiment the content personalization system may also includes a policy repository . The policy repository is implemented within a machine accessible and readable medium and is accessible to machines and services of the machines over a network connection such as an Internet connection.

The policy repository is used by the proxy to manage and house policy used for the requesting principal other requesting principals and or a content distributor or provider associated with the content. In this manner a single proxy and policy repository can be used to manage and personalize content for a plurality of content providers principals and or content distributors. Any particular policy or set of policies may be retrieved from the policy repository using a variety of criteria such as identities associated with the principal content content distributors content providers etc.

The policy can define a variety of limitations that can be used to identify acquire and process the script . Some examples include but are not limited to attributes associated with a principal such as identity attributes associated with devices that the principal may use preferences associated with the principal such as profiles attributes associated with the content attributes associated with configurations of processing environments that the principal may use time and date limitations associated with the content or content provider and or membership or role limitations assigned to the principal.

The content personalization system includes a policy repository and a proxy . Each of these will now be discussed in turn.

The policy repository is implemented in machine accessible and readable medium and is accessible to a machine and services that process on the machine or other machines of a network. Example usages of the policy repository were described above with reference to the policy repository of the .

The policy repository supplies and houses policy for the proxy . The policy defines limitations or actions for a given set of circumstances that the proxy is to take for a given request for a particular WWW page for a particular WWW site and a particular requesting principal.

In an embodiment at least some of the policy housed in the policy repository may be done by requesting principals administrators associated with WWW pages content and or content providers or distributors of content.

The policy repository may also be used to house scripts that get processed against WWW pages in response to policy evaluation that is performed by the proxy . Thus the policy repository provides a centralized mechanism to manage policy and scripts for a plurality of requesting principals WWW pages WWW sites content providers content distributors etc.

The policy repository may be a directory a distributed directory a database a collection of databases organized as a data warehouse or various combinations of these things that cooperate with one another via a mutual Application Programming Interface API . Access to the policy repository may also be controlled by identity and global policy. In some cases the policy repository may sit behind a firewall and access may just be granted to a proxy configured to process within that firewall.

The proxy is implemented in a machine accessible and readable medium and is to process on a machine over a network connection such as an Internet connection. Example processing associated with the proxy has been described in detail above with reference to the .

The proxy is processed to acquire policy from the policy repository for requested WWW pages. The proxy evaluates the policy for purposes of modifying the WWW pages and to thusly personalize the WWW pages for delivery to requesting principals for their subsequent viewing and access. Again the policy evaluation may drive the proxy to acquire and process scripts to achieve personalization of the WWW pages.

In an embodiment the proxy is invoked for processing automatically and dynamically when requesting principals attempt to access the WWW pages initially over an Internet connection. In other instances the proxy is automatically and dynamically invoked for processing just before the WWW pages are delivered to the WWW browsers of the requesting principals.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of embodiments should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b and will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing description of the embodiments various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Description of the Embodiments with each claim standing on its own as a separate exemplary embodiment.

