---

title: Heterostructure of ferromagnetic and ferroelectric materials with magneto-optic and electro-optic effects
abstract: A heterostructure of multiferroics or magnetoelectrics (ME) was disclosed. The film has both ferromagnetic and ferroelectric properties, as well as magneto-optic (MO) and electro-optic (EO) properties. Oxide buffer layers were employed to allow grown a cracking-free heterostructure a solution coating method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08124254&OS=08124254&RS=08124254
owner: Boston Applied Technologies, Inc
number: 08124254
owner_city: Woburn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071218
---
This application claims the benefit of Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 875 677 filed on Dec. 19 2006.

This invention was made with Government support in whole or in part under a NASA grant no. NNG04CB08C NSF grants DMI 0422094 and DMI 0522177. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a magnetoelectric heterostructure which consists of a ferromagnetic layer and a ferroelectric layer with some buffer layers in between. And more particular a magnetoelectric heterostructure with magneto optic and electro optic effects. It is also related to a method to fabricate the magnetoelectric heterostructure.

Interest in multiferroic materials combining two or more ferroic properties especially ferroelectric and ferromagnetic properties has inspired a flurry of research activities in recent years due to a great expectation of potential applications in the microelectronics field. Aside from the applications of both ferroelectric FE and ferromagnetic FM properties the magnetoelectrics effect can be used in multiple state memory elements in which data is stored both in the electric and the magnetic polarizations or magnetoelectric signal processing devices such as an FMR based phase shifters and filters.

The magnetoelectric ME effect is defined as the dielectric polarization of a material in an applied magnetic field or an induced magnetization in an external electric field. The effect first observed in antiferro magnetic CrO is weak in single phase compounds. Promising single phase multiferroic materials such as BiFeO TbMnO and YMnO have been found and their modified derivatives been extensively investigated. However there are still very few applicable magnetic ferroelectric materials discovered so far and their multiferroic effects are not significant enough to be useful in practical applications.

An alternative is to form multiphase complexes e.g. composites or multilayer structures in which each phase exhibits a strong ferroic property. To date in most research multilayer or bilayer multiferroic structures are laminated and sintered together or bonded by silver epoxy. In such circumstances strains and inhomogeneities at the interfaces or the existence of a foreign layer complicate the understanding of the important magnetic electric coupling phenomenon. In contrast epitaxial multilayer films are more desirable for both theoretical studies and potential applications since there are many factors such as layer thickness and interfacial roughness that may be accurately controlled.

On the other hand both magneto optic MO and electro optic EO effects are widely used in optical industry. Current photonic integrated circuits PICs are based on either polymer or SiOfilms that are limited in device functionality. Electro optic or magneto optic materials are very attractive in adding functionality and adaptivity to PICs. However very limited work has been done on PICs with functional materials. In this invention we have developed a multifunctional thin film structure with MO and EO effects which would enable the integration of MO isolators with other monolithic optical devices such as lasers waveguides modulators and detectors.

One aspect of the invention relates to a multiferroic heterostructure comprising a ferromagnetic layer and a ferroelectric layer therefore with both ferromagnet and ferroelectric properties.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a multiferroic heterostructure constituted of a ferromagnetic layer which has a magneto optic effect and a ferroelectric layer which has a electro optic effect.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a proper buffer layer for cracking free heterostructure film fabrication.

Yet another aspect of the invention relates to a solution coating method to fabricate the said multiferroic heterostructure.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the detailed description which follows and in part will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from that description or recognized by practicing the invention as described herein including the detailed description which follows the claims as well as the appended drawings.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description present embodiments of the invention and are intended to provide an overview or framework for understanding the nature and character of the invention as it is claimed. The accompanying drawings are included to provide a further understanding of the invention and are incorporated into and constitute a part of this specification. The drawings are not necessarily to scale. The drawings illustrate one or more embodiment s of the invention and together with the description serve to explain the principles and operations of the invention.

Shown in is a preferred embodiment according to present invention. The heterostructure is consisted of a substrate a buffer layer on the substrate a ferromagnetic layer a complex buffer layer and a ferroelectric layer.

In one of the preferred embodiment c sapphire was used as the substrate. The ferromagnetic thin film layer which is also a magneto optic layer is bismuth and aluminum substituted yttrium iron garnet or BiAl YIG. One of the preferred compositions is BiYFeAlO. Undoped yttrium iron garnet YIG or other doping elements such as but not limited to Tb Ga Al Ce and Ge can also be incorporated into the YIG. The ferroelectric thin film layer which is also an electro optic layer is lanthanum modified Pb MgNb O PbTiO La PMNT or PLMNT . Other electro optic materials such as La modified PBZNT lanthanum doped lead zirconate titanate PLZT or BST can also be used as the ferroelectric thin film layer.

Several buffer layers were incorporated into the heterostructure to prevent the cracking problem by reducing the stress between substrates and films. An appropriate buffer layer can also protect the substrate at high deposition temperature and improve the substrate film interfaces. Magnesium oxide MgO is a good candidate for a buffer because it is chemically stable and its lattice constant matches to that of both YIG and PLMNT as well as to that of the sapphire substrates a 4.758 c 12.991 . MgO has a cubic structure and its lattice constant is 4.216 three times of which would match that of YIG a 12.38 and very close to that of PLMNT 4.12 . The coefficient of thermal expansion CTE of MgO is 10.8 10 C. at 0 C. 8.0 10 C. at 100 C. It matches well with sapphire s 7.9 to 8.8 10 C. and YIG s CTE 8.13 10 C. . We used MgO as buffer and found it works perfectly to help growing both YIG and PLMNT films.

Indium Tin Oxide ITO is another good buffer candidate for growing YIG and PLMNT films on a sapphire substrate especially when a conductive layer is desired. The CTE of ITO is 8.5 10 C. lattice constant is about 10.2 .

A complex buffer which comprises MgO lanthanum doped lead titanate PLT and lanthanum doped lead zirconate titanate PLZT has been developed in this invention especially for the growth of PLMNT onto BiAl YIG layer.

The film was fabricated by a solution coating method. The coating apparatus used for coating films in this invention are shown schematically in . It consists of three major parts a driving mechanism a vertical tube furnace and a computerized controller . This apparatus is capable of multiple cycles that consist of immersing withdrawing drying annealing and cooling stages. The number of cycles the number of stages in a cycle and the motion and or duration of each stage can all be programmed into the computer. The system is also equipped with an automated exchanger for solutions of different precursors. A unique advantage of the coating process is that it can be used to grow multilayer or superlattice materials conveniently by dipping the substrate into different chemical precursors each time.

In this technique solutions of individual metal organic compounds are mixed at the desired cation ratios to form a coating solution. This coating solution is deposited on a substrate by dip coating to produce a wet film which is then heated to first remove any solvent that did not evaporate during the deposition step and then to decompose the metal organic compounds to produce an inorganic film. For most applications the first consideration for an adequate film forming process is the ability to produce a final crack free film. Solution derived films tend to form cracks with increasing thickness owing to the high volume shrinkage as organic materials are removed during the firing process. This is especially true for films requiring a high temperature treatment for crystallization. Not only is there another volume shrinkage accompanying the amorphous to crystalline transformation but factors like thermal expansion mismatch between the film and the substrate also become more severe as the processing temperature increases.

A typical flow chart for preparing crystalline films from solutions by multiple dipping is shown in . The temperature cycling nature of the solution coating process by repeated heating and cooling for each layer significantly reduces the stress due to thermal expansion mismatch between the substrate and film materials.

Precursors for preparing the garnet FM films were all nitrate compounds Y NO Fe NO Al NO and Bi NO . Nitrates 10 g in total according to the desired cation ratios were first dissolved into 30 mL acetylacetone 2 4 pentanedione . Ethanol 30 50 mL was then added to a desired level for the subsequent coating process. The solutions were aged overnight prior to coating. The cracking free film is up to the thickness of 3 m.

For PLMNT films and PLT or PLZT buffers the precursors in the forms of acetates and alkoxides were dissolved in methanol and 2 methoxyethanol after proper dehydration. Magnesium acetate dissolved in 2 methoxyethanol was used as the precursor for MgO. Concentrations of the various solutions were between 0.1 and 0.4 M mol L . The cracking free film is up to the thickness of 3 m.

The on site heating temperature used to crystallize the film is in the range of 500 800 C. The dipping speed is 1 2 mm second. The firing times are around 2 3 minutes. The firing speed is about 3 mm second. The precursors for the PLMNT film and PLT and PLZT buffers are made of all acetates except niobium ethoxide dissolved in methanol and 2 methoxyethanol. The precursor for MgO solution is magnesium acetate solved in 2 methoxyethanol. Concentrations of the solutions are between 0.2 0.4 M mol L .

The heterostructure film exhibits excellent optical qualities with smooth surfaces and high transparency. Scanning electron microscopy SEM JEOL 6320 Peabody Mass. was used to examine the morphologies of the heterostructure films. is the SEM image of the cross section. The film and substrate were cleaved by a diamond knife without further polishing. It can be seen that the multilayer structure is well formed. The thicknesses of the ferromagnetic layer and the ferroelectric layer are about 800 and 900 nm respectively. The thicknesses of the individual buffer layers shown as the white lines are in the range of 5 to 20 nm.

Crystallinity of the heterostructure was characterized using a Rigaku Rigaku Americas Corp. The Woodlands Tex. x ray diffractometer XRD system. shows the XRD pattern of the heterostructure. Both garnet BiAl YIG and perovskite PLMNT crystalline structures are well formed. The heterostructure exhibits both ferromagnetic and ferroelectric effects as illustrated in . The ferromagnetic and magneto optic effects of the BiAl YIG layer were not negatively affected by the existence of the ferroelectric layer. Shown in is the Faraday rotation curve of a heterostructure film. The heterostructure film has a Verdet constant as high as 4.5 mm Oe at the wavelength of 633 nm which is higher than that of the referenced single BiAl YIG film at 2.7 mm Oe. Shown in is measured EO coefficient of the heterostructure at 532 nm. The EO coefficient is about 0.3 10 m V which is significantly higher comparing to that of other EO films.

Although particular embodiments of the invention have been described and illustrated herein it is recognized that modifications and variations may readily occur to those skilled in the art. For example other film fabrication technologies can be used to make the structure or different precursor can be used in a solution coating method. The thickness of any layer can be changed. To enhance the ferromagnetic and ferroelectric effects of the individual layer periodic multilayer structures can be further incorporated into the heterostructure multiferroic film.

