---

title: Substituted piperazines as AKT inhibitors
abstract: Also provided are methods of using the compounds of this invention as AKT protein kinase inhibitors and for the treatment of hyperproliferative diseases such as cancer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09303040&OS=09303040&RS=09303040
owner: ARRAY BIOPHARMA INC.
number: 09303040
owner_city: Boulder
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070705
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 818 952 that was filed on 6 Jul. 2006 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to novel inhibitors of serine threonine protein kinases e.g. AKT and related kinases pharmaceutical compositions containing the inhibitors and methods for preparing these inhibitors. The inhibitors are useful for example for the treatment of hyperproliferative diseases such as cancer and inflammation in mammals.

Protein kinases PK are enzymes that catalyze the phosphorylation of hydroxy groups on tyrosine serine and threonine residues of proteins by transfer of the terminal gamma phosphate from ATP. Through signal transduction pathways these enzymes modulate cell growth differentiation and proliferation i.e. virtually all aspects of cell life in one way or another depend on PK activity Hardie G. and Hanks S. 1995 Academic Press San Diego Calif. . Furthermore abnormal PK activity has been related to a host of disorders ranging from relatively non life threatening diseases such as psoriasis to extremely virulent diseases such as glioblastoma brain cancer . Protein kinases are an important target class for therapeutic modulation Cohen P. 2002 Nature Rev. Drug Discovery 1 309 .

Significantly atypical protein phosphorylation and or expression is often reported to be one of the causative effects of abnormal cellular proliferation metastasis and cell survival in cancer. The abnormal regulation and or expression of various kinases including Akt VEGF ILK ROCK p70S6K Bcl PKA PKC Raf Src PDK1 ErbB2 MEK IKK Cdk EGFR BAD CHK1 CHK2 and GSK3 amongst numerous others has been specifically implicated in cancer.

Protein kinases include two classes protein tyrosine kinases PTK and serine threonine kinases STK . The Protein Kinase B Akt enzymes are a group of serine threonine kinases that are overexpressed in a variety of human tumors. One of the best characterized targets of the PI3K lipid products is the 57 KD serine threonine protein kinase Akt downstream of PI3K in the signal transduction pathway Hemmings B. A. 1997 Science 275 628 Hay N. 2005 Cancer Cell 8 179 183 . Akt is the human homologue of the protooncogene v akt of the acutely transforming retrovirus AKT8. Due to its high sequence homology to protein kinases A and C Akt is also called Protein Kinase B PKB and Related to A and C RAC . Three isoforms of Akt are known to exist namely Akt1 Akt2 and Akt3 which exhibit an overall homology of 80 Staal S. P. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 84 5034 Nakatani K. 1999 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 257 906 Li et al 2002 Current Topics in Med. Chem. 2 939 971 WO 2005 113762 . The Akt isoforms share a common domain organization that consists of a pleckstrin homology domain at the N terminus a kinase catalytic domain and a short regulatory region at the C terminus. In addition both Akt2 and Akt3 exhibit splice variants. Upon recruitment to the cell membrane by PtdInd 3 4 5 P Akt is phosphorylated activated by PDK1 at T308 T309 and T305 for isoforms Akt1 PKB Akt2 PKB and Akt3 PKB respectively and at S473 S474 and S472 for isoforms Akt1 Akt2 and Akt3 respectively. Such phosphorylation occurs by an as yet unknown kinase putatively named PDK2 although PDK1 Balendran A. 1999 Curr. Biol. 9 393 autophosphorylation Toker A. 2000 J. Biol. Chem. 275 8271 and integrin linked kinase ILK Delcommenne M. 1998 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 11211 have been implicated in this process. Akt activation requires its phosphorylation on residue Ser 473 in the C terminal hydrophobic motif Brodbeck et al 1999 J. Biol. Chem. 274 9133 9136 Coffer et al 1991 Eur. J. Biochem. 201 475 481 Alessi et al 1997 Curr. Biol. 7 261 269 . Although monophosphorylation of Akt activates the kinase bis phosphorylation is required for maximal kinase activity.

Akt is believed to assert its effect on cancer by suppressing apoptosis and enhancing both angiogenesis and proliferation Toker et al 2006 Cancer Res. 66 8 3963 3966 . Akt is overexpressed in many forms of human cancer including but not limited to colon Zinda et al 2001 Clin. Cancer Res. 7 2475 ovarian Cheng et al 1992 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 9267 brain Haas Kogan et al 1998 Curr. Biol. 8 1195 lung Brognard et al 2001 Cancer Res. 61 3986 pancreatic Bellacosa et al 1995 Int. J. Cancer 64 280 285 Cheng et al 1996 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 93 3636 3641 prostate Graff et al 2000 J. Biol. Chem. 275 24500 and gastric carcinomas Staal et al 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 5034 5037 .

The PI3K Akt mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR pathway has been explored for targeted small molecule inhibitor therapy Georgakis G. and Younes A. 2006 Expert Rev. Anticancer Ther. 6 1 131 140 Granville et al 2006 Clin. Cancer Res. 12 3 679 689 . Inhibition of PI3K Akt signaling induces apoptosis and inhibits the growth of tumor cells that have elevated Akt levels Kim et al 2005 Current Opinion in Investig. Drugs 6 12 1250 1258 Luo et al 2005 Molecular Cancer Ther. 4 6 977 986 .

The development of kinase inhibitors that target abnormally regulated pathways and ultimately result in disease is of enormous ethical and commercial interest to the medical and pharmaceutical community. A compound that inhibits 1 recruitment of Akt to the cell membrane 2 activation by PDK1 or PDK2 3 substrate phosphorylation or 4 one of the downstream targets of Akt could be a valuable anticancer agent either as a stand alone therapy or in conjunction with other accepted procedures.

United States Patent Application Publication 2005 0130954 discloses inter alia a variety of compounds that act as AKT inhibitors. The compounds are said to be useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative diseases such as cancer.

This invention provides novel compounds that inhibit AKT protein kinases. The compounds of the present invention have utility as therapeutic agents for diseases and conditions that can be treated by the inhibition of AKT protein kinases.

The invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of Formula I or Ia or an enantiomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of treating diseases or medical conditions in a mammal mediated by AKT protein kinases comprising administering to said mammal one or more compounds of Formula I or Ia or an enantiomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in an amount effective to treat or prevent said disorder. AKT protein kinase mediated conditions that can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to inflammatory hyperproliferative cardiovascular neurodegenerative gynecological and dermatological diseases and disorders.

In a further aspect the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the production of AKT protein kinases in a mammal which comprises administering to said mammal a compound of Formula I or Ia or an enantiomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in an amount effective to inhibit production of an AKT protein kinase.

In a further aspect the present invention provides methods of inhibiting the activity of AKT protein kinases comprising contacting said kinase with a compound of Formula I or Ia.

The inventive compounds may be used advantageously in combination with other known therapeutic agents. Accordingly this invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of Formula I or Ia or an enantiomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in combination with a second therapeutic agent.

This invention also provides compounds of Formula I or Ia and enantiomers and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof for use as medicaments in the treatment of AKT protein kinase mediated conditions.

An additional aspect of the invention is the use of a compound of Formula I or Ia or an enantiomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for therapy. In one embodiment the therapy comprises the treatment of an AKT protein kinase mediated condition.

This invention further provides kits for the treatment of an AKT protein kinase mediated disease or disorder said kit comprising a compound of Formula I or Ia or an enantiomer or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof a container and optionally a package insert or label indicating a treatment. The kits may further comprise a second compound or formulation comprising a second pharmaceutical agent useful for treating said disease or disorder.

This invention further includes methods of preparing methods of separating and methods of purifying of the compounds of this invention.

Additional advantages and novel features of this invention shall be set forth in part in the description that follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following specification or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention may be realized and attained by means of the instrumentalities combinations compositions and methods particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl 1 Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 2 2 dimethylpropyl CHC CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkylene as used herein refers to a linear or branched saturated divalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms wherein the alkylene radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to methylene ethylene propylene 2 methylpropylene pentylene and the like.

The term alkenyl as used herein refers to a linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH 1 propenyl 1 buten 1 yl 1 buten 2 yl and the like.

The term alkynyl as used herein refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH and propynyl propargyl CHC CH .

The terms cycloalkyl carbocycle carbocyclyl and carbocyclic ring as used herein are used interchangeably and refer to saturated or partially unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon radical having from three to twelve carbon atoms. The term cycloalkyl includes monocyclic and polycyclic e.g. bicyclic and tricyclic cycloalkyl structures wherein the polycyclic structures optionally include a saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkyl ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic cycloalkyl or heterocyclic ring. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and the like. Bicyclic carbocycles include those having 7 to 12 ring atoms arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. The cycloalkyl may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

 Aryl as used herein means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 20 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Exemplary aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene naphthalene anthracene biphenyl indene indane 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphtalene and the like. Aryl groups may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring as used herein are used interchangeably and refer to a saturated or partially unsaturated carbocyclic radical of 3 to 8 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. The radical may be a carbon radical or heteroatom radical. The term heterocycle includes heterocycloalkoxy. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidino morpholino thiomorpholino thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl dihydrofuranyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl 3H indolyl quinolizinyl and N pyridyl ureas. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. The heterocycle may be C attached or N attached where such is possible. For instance a group derived from pyrrole may be pyrrol 1 yl N attached or pyrrol 3 yl C attached . Further a group derived from imidazole may be imidazol 1 yl N attached or imidazol 3 yl C attached . Examples of heterocyclic groups wherein 2 ring carbon atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are isoindoline 1 3 dionyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocycle groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

The term heteroaryl as used herein refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of a 5 6 or 7 membered ring and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 10 atoms containing at least one heteroatom independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to pyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Heteroaryl groups may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein.

By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles and heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline. Further examples of carbon bonded heterocycles include 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 5 pyridyl 6 pyridyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 5 pyridazinyl 6 pyridazinyl 2 pyrimidinyl 4 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 6 pyrimidinyl 2 pyrazinyl 3 pyrazinyl 5 pyrazinyl 6 pyrazinyl 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl or 5 thiazolyl.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles and heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of an isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline. Still more typically nitrogen bonded heterocycles include 1 aziridyl 1 azetedyl 1 pyrrolyl 1 imidazolyl 1 pyrazolyl and 1 piperidinyl.

As used herein the terms compound of this invention compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I or Ia includes compounds of Formula I or Ia and resolved enantiomers resolved diastereomers racemic mixtures and salts including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In general the various moieties or functional groups of the compounds of Formula I or Ia may be optionally substituted by one or more substituents. Examples of substituents suitable for purposes of this invention include but are not limited to halogen alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl OR NO CN COR C O R O C O R SR SOR SOR aryl heteroaryl C O NRR NRR NR C O R SONRR POH and SOH where R Rand Rare alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl heterocyclyl aryl or heteroaryl.

It is to be understood that in instances where two or more radicals are used in succession to define a substituent attached to a structure the first named radical is considered to be terminal and the last named radical is considered to be attached to the structure in question. Thus for example an arylalkyl radical is attached to the structure in question by the alkyl group.

The inventive compounds of Formula I or Ia are useful for inhibiting AKT protein kinases. The compounds of Formula I or Ia may also be useful as inhibitors of tyrosine kinases as well as serine and threonine kinases in addition to AKT. Such compounds have utility as therapeutic agents for diseases that can be treated by the inhibition of the AKT protein kinase signaling pathway and tyrosine and serine threonine kinase receptor pathways.

Rand Rare independently H C Ccycloalkyl CH C Ccycloalkyl CHCH V CH wherein V is a 5 6 membered heteroaryl W CH wherein W is phenyl optionally substituted with F Cl Br I OMe CFor Me C C cycloalkyl hydroxy C C cycloalkyl fluoro C C cycloalkyl CH CH CH OH phenyl 4 6 membered heterocycle optionally substituted with F OH cyclopropylmethyl C Calkyl or C O C Calkyl or C C alkyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH O C C alkyl CN F NH NH C C alkyl N C C alkyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl morpholinyl oxetanyl piperidinyl and pyrrolidinyl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 6 membered heterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH halogen oxo CF CHCF and C C alkyl 

or Ris H and Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a 5 6 membered heterocyclic ring having one or two ring nitrogen atoms 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a 5 6 membered heterocyclic ring having one or two ring nitrogen atoms 

each Ris independently halogen C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl O C C alkyl CF OCF S C C alkyl CN OCH phenyl NH NH C C alkyl N C C alkyl piperidine pyrrolidine CHF CHF OCHF OCHF OH SO C C alkyl C O NH C O NH C C alkyl and C O N C C alkyl and

Rand Rare independently H C Ccycloalkyl CH C Ccycloalkyl CHCH V CH wherein V is a 5 6 membered heteroaryl W CH wherein W is phenyl optionally substituted with F Cl or Me C C cycloalkyl hydroxy C C cycloalkyl fluoro C C cycloalkyl CH CH CH OH phenyl or C C alkyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH O C C alkyl CN F NH NH C C alkyl N C C alkyl piperidinyl and pyrrolidinyl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 6 membered heterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH halogen oxo CF CHCF and C C alkyl 

or Ris H and Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a 5 6 membered heterocyclic ring having one or two ring nitrogen atoms 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a 5 6 membered heterocyclic ring having one or two ring nitrogen atoms 

each Ris independently halogen C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl CF OCF S C C alkyl CN OCH phenyl NH NH C C alkyl N C C alkyl piperidine pyrrolidine CHF CHF OCHF OCHF OH SO C C alkyl C O NH C O NH C C alkyl and C O N C C alkyl and

In a further embodiment Rand Rare independently H C Ccycloalkyl CH C Ccycloalkyl CHCH V CH wherein V is a 5 6 membered heteroaryl W CH wherein W is phenyl optionally substituted with F Cl or Me C C cycloalkyl hydroxy C C cycloalkyl fluoro C C cycloalkyl CH CH CH OH phenyl or C C alkyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH O C C alkyl CN F NH NH C C alkyl N C C alkyl piperidinyl and pyrrolidinyl 

or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 4 6 membered heterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH halogen oxo CF CHCF and C C alkyl.

Referring to the G group of Formula I or Ia examples include phenyl optionally substituted with one or more Rgroups independently selected from F Cl Br CN methyl ethyl isopropyl OCH OCHCH CF OCF SCH OCHPh and cyclopropyl. Exemplary embodiments include but are not limited to phenyl 2 chlorophenyl 3 chlorophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 2 fluorophenyl 3 fluorophenyl 4 fluorophenyl 2 bromophenyl 3 bromophenyl 4 bromophenyl 2 methylphenyl 3 methylphenyl 4 methylphenyl 2 ethylphenyl 3 ethylphenyl 4 ethylphenyl 2 isopropylphenyl 3 isopropylphenyl 4 isopropylphenyl 2 trifluoromethylphenyl 3 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 2 cyanophenyl 3 cyanophenyl 4 cyanophenyl 2 methoxyphenyl 3 methoxyphenyl 4 methoxyphenyl 2 ethoxyphenyl 3 ethoxyphenyl 4 ethoxyphenyl 2 thiomethylphenyl 3 thiomethylphenyl 4 thiomethylphenyl 2 trifluoromethoxyphenyl 3 trifluoromethoxyphenyl 4 trifluoromethoxyphenyl 2 cyclopropylphenyl 3 cyclopropylphenyl 4 cyclopropylphenyl 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 3 4 difluorophenyl 4 bromo 3 fluorophenyl 3 fluoro 4 methylphenyl 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 cyano 3 fluorophenyl 3 4 dichlorophenyl 2 4 dichlorophenyl 2 4 difluorophenyl 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 fluoro 4 chlorophenyl 3 5 dichlorophenyl. 3 5 difluorophenyl 3 chloro 5 fluorophenyl 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 3 bromo 4 fluorophenyl 3 5 difluoro 4 chlorophenyl 2 3 difluoro 4 chlorophenyl 2 5 difluoro 4 chlorophenyl 3 5 difluoro 4 bromophenyl 2 3 difluoro 4 bromophenyl 2 5 difluoro 4 bromophenyl and 4 OCHPh phenyl.

Referring to the Rand Rgroups of Formula I or Ia the term C C cycloalkyl CH includes cyclopropyl CH cyclobutyl CH cyclopentyl CH and cyclohexyl CH.

Referring to the Rand Rgroups of Formula I or Ia the term V CH includes but is not limited to the following structures 

Referring to the Rand Rgroups of Formula I or Ia the term hydroxy C C cycloalkyl includes but is not limited to the following structures 

Referring to the Rand Rgroups of Formula I or Ia the phrase Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 6 membered heterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH halogen oxo CF CHCF and C C alkyl includes but is not limited to the following structures 

Referring to the Rand Rgroups of Formula I or Ia the phrase 4 6 membered heterocycle optionally substituted with F OH cyclopropylmethyl C Calkyl or C O C Calkyl includes but is not limited to the following structures 

Referring to the Rand Rgroups of Formula I or Ia the phrase C C alkyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH OMe and CN includes but is not limited to CHOH CHCHOH CHCHCHOH CHCH OH CH CHCHCH OH CH CHC OH CH CHOMe CHCHOMe CHCHCHOMe CHCH OMe CH CHCHCH OMe CH CHC OMe CH CHCN CHCHCN CHCHCHCN CHCH CN CH CHCHCH CN CH CHC CN CH and the like.

Referring to the Rand Rgroups of Formula I or Ia in certain embodiments the term heteroaryl refers to a 5 6 membered heteroaryl having from one to two ring heteroatoms independently selected from N O and S.

In one embodiment of Formula I or Ia Ris methyl wherein Ris optionally in the R or S configuration. In another embodiment of Formula I Ris H.

In another embodiment of Formula I or Ia Ris ethyl wherein Ris optionally in the R or S configuration.

In one embodiment of Formula I or Ia Ris H or methyl. In another embodiment Ris methyl wherein Ris optionally in the S configuration.

In one embodiment of Formula I or Ia G is phenyl optionally substituted with one to three Rgroups independently selected from F Cl Br CN methyl ethyl isopropyl CF OCF SMe OMe and CHOPh. Examples include but are not limited to phenyl 2 chlorophenyl 3 chlorophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 4 fluorophenyl 4 bromophenyl 4 methylphenyl 4 ethylphenyl 4 isopropylphenyl 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 cyanophenyl 4 methoxyphenyl 4 ethoxyphenyl 4 thiomethylphenyl 4 trifluoromethoxyphenyl 4 cyclopropylphenyl 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 3 4 difluorophenyl 4 bromo 3 fluorophenyl 3 fluoro 4 methylphenyl 3 fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl 3 fluoro 4 trifluoromethylphenyl 4 cyano 3 fluorophenyl 3 4 dichlorophenyl 2 4 dichlorophenyl 2 4 difluorophenyl 2 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 fluoro 4 chlorophenyl 3 5 dichlorophenyl. 3 5 difluorophenyl 3 chloro 5 fluorophenyl 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 3 bromo 4 fluorophenyl 3 5 difluoro 4 chlorophenyl 2 3 difluoro 4 chlorophenyl 2 5 difluoro 4 chlorophenyl 3 5 difluoro 4 bromophenyl 2 3 difluoro 4 bromophenyl 2 5 difluoro 4 bromophenyl and 4 CHOPh phenyl.

In particular embodiments G is 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 dichlorophenyl 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 difluorophenyl 4 methylphenyl 4 methoxyphenyl or 4 CHOPh phenyl

In particular embodiments Rand Rare independently W CH wherein W is phenyl optionally substituted with F Cl Br I OMe CFor Me. In a further embodiment Rand Rare independently W CH wherein W is phenyl optionally substituted with F Cl or Me.

In particular embodiments Rand Rare independently 4 6 membered heterocycle optionally substituted with F OH cyclopropylmethyl C Calkyl or C O C Calkyl .

In particular embodiments Rand Rare independently C C alkyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH O C C alkyl CN F NH NH C C alkyl N C C alkyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrofuranyl morpholinyl oxetanyl piperidinyl and pyrrolidinyl. In a further embodiment Rand Rare independently C C alkyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH O C C alkyl CN F NH NH C C alkyl N C C alkyl piperidinyl and pyrrolidinyl.

In particular embodiments Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a 3 6 membered heterocyclic ring optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH halogen oxo CF CHCF and C C alkyl.

In one embodiment of Formula I or Ia m is 1 n is 0 p is 0 such that A is represented by the Formula 1 

In certain embodiments of the A group having the Formula 1 Rand Rare H. In other embodiments Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached form a cyclopropyl ring.

In certain embodiments of the A group having the Formula 1 Rand Rare independently H C C cycloalkyl heteroaryl CH hydroxy C C cycloalkyl or C alkyl optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH OMe and CN. In particular embodiments Rand Rare independently H methyl ethyl isopropyl isobutyl tert butyl 3 pentyl CH isopropyl CHCHOH CHCHCHOH CH CHCHOH CHCHOMe CH CHCHOMe CHCHCHOMe CHCN CH cyclopropyl CH cyclobutyl CH tBu cyclopentyl cyclohexyl CH phenyl CH pyrid 2 yl CH pyrid 3 yl CH pyrid 4 yl 4 hydroxycyclohex 1 yl or CH CH CH OH phenyl.

In particular embodiments of the A group having the Formula 1 Rand Rare selected such that NRRis NH NHMe NHEt NHPr NHiPr NHtBu NH CH tBu NH CH cyclopropyl NH CH cyclobutyl NH cyclopentyl NH CH pyridyl NH cyclohexyl NH 3 pentyl NHCH isopropyl NH CHCHOH NH CHCHCHOH NH CHCHOMe NH CHCHCHOMe NH CHCN NMe NMeEt NMePr NMe iPr NMe CH cyclopropyl NMe CH cyclobutyl NMe CHCHOH NMe CHCHCHOH NMe CHCHOMe NMe CHCHCHOMe NEt NEtPr NEt iPr NEt CH cyclopropyl NEt CH cyclobutyl NEt CHCHOH NEt CHCHCHOH 

In other embodiments of the A group having the Formula 1 Rand Rtogether with the N to which they are attached form a 4 6 membered heterocyclic ring having a ring nitrogen atom and optionally having a second ring heteroatom selected form N and O wherein said heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH halogen oxo CHCF and C C alkyl. For example in certain embodiments Rand Rtogether with the N to which they are attached form a pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl azetidinyl morpholinyl or piperizinyl ring wherein said pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl azetidinyl morpholinyl and piperazinyl rings are optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH F methyl CHCF and oxo. In particular embodiments of the A group having the Formula 1 NRRis selected from the structures 

An additional embodiment of the A group having the Formula 1 Rand Rform a 3 membered heterocyclic ring having a ring nitrogen atom wherein said heterocyclic ring is optionally substituted with one or more groups independently selected from OH halogen oxo CHCF and C C alkyl. In particular embodiments of the A group having the Formula 1 NRRis selected from the structure 

In certain embodiments of the A group having the Formula 1 Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a 5 6 membered heterocyclic ring having one or two ring nitrogen atoms. In other embodiments Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a pyrrolidinyl or piperidinyl ring.

In another embodiment of Formula I or Ia m is 1 n is 1 and p is 0 such that A is represented by the Formula 2 

In certain embodiments of the group A having the Formula 2 Rand Rare H. In other embodiments Rand Rare methyl. In other embodiments Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached form a cyclopropyl ring.

In certain embodiments of the group A having the Formula 2 Rand Rare independently H methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl CH cyclopropyl or CH cyclobutyl. In certain embodiments NRRof Formula 2 is NH NHCH NHEt NHPr NH iPr NH CH cyclopropyl NH CH cyclobutyl NMe NMeEt NMePr NMe iPr NEt NEtPr or NEt iPr .

In certain embodiments of the group A having the Formula 2 Rand Rtogether with N form a 5 6 membered heterocyclic ring having a ring nitrogen atom and optionally having an additional ring nitrogen atom. For example in certain embodiments Rand Rtogether with N form a heterocyclic ring selected from the structures 

In other embodiments Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a piperidinyl or pyrrolidinyl ring.

In other embodiments of Formula I or Ia m is 1 n is 0 and p is 1 such that group A is represented by the Formula 3 

In certain embodiments of the group A of Formula 3 Rand Rare H. In other embodiments Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached form a cyclopropyl ring.

In certain embodiments of the group A of Formula 3 Rand Rare independently H methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl t butyl CH cyclopropyl or CH cyclobutyl.

In certain embodiments NRRof Formula 3 is NH NHMe NHEt NHPr NH iPr NHtBu NH CH cyclopropyl or NH CH cyclobutyl .

In other embodiments of group A of Formula 3 Rand Rare H and Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a 5 to 6 membered heterocyclic ring wherein one of the ring atoms is nitrogen. In certain embodiments Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a pyrrolidinyl ring. In certain embodiments Ris H.

In other embodiments of Formula I or Ia m is 0 n is 0 and p is 1 such that A is represented by the Formula 4 

In certain embodiments of the group A of Formula 4 Rand Rare independently H or Me. In particular embodiments NRRis NHor NHMe.

The compounds of this invention may possess one or more asymmetric centers such compounds can therefore be produced as individual R or S stereoisomers or as mixtures thereof. Unless indicated otherwise the description or naming of a particular compound in the specification and claims is intended to include both individual enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures racemic or otherwise thereof. Accordingly this invention also includes all such isomers including diastereomeric mixtures pure diastereomers and pure enantiomers of the compounds of this invention. The term enantiomer refers to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another. The term diastereomer refers to a pair of optical isomers which are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities.

The compounds of the present invention may also exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of Formula I or Ia include solvates pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs and salts including pharmaceutically acceptable salts of such compounds.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition is compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate can also be used to refer to a complex wherein the solvent molecule is water.

A prodrug is a compound that may be converted under physiological conditions or by solvolysis to the specified compound or to a salt of such compound. Prodrugs include compounds wherein an amino acid residue or a polypeptide chain of two or more e.g. two three or four amino acid residues is covalently joined through an amide or ester bond to a free amino hydroxy or carboxylic acid group of a compound of the present invention. The amino acid residues include but are not limited to the 20 naturally occurring amino acids commonly designated by three letter symbols and also includes phosphoserine phosphothreonine phosphotyrosine 4 hydroxyproline hydroxylysine demosine isodemosine gamma carboxyglutamate hippuric acid octahydroindole 2 carboxylic acid statine 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid penicillamine ornithine 3 methylhistidine norvaline beta alanine gamma aminobutyric acid cirtulline homocysteine homoserine methyl alanine para benzoylphenylalanine phenylglycine propargylglycine sarcosine methionine sulfone and tert butylglycine.

Additional types of prodrugs are also encompassed. For instance a free carboxyl group of a compound of Formula I or Ia can be derivatized as an amide or alkyl ester. As another example compounds of this invention comprising free hydroxy groups may be derivatized as prodrugs by converting the hydroxy group into a group such as but not limited to a phosphate ester hemisuccinate dimethylaminoacetate or phosphoryloxymethyloxycarbonyl group as outlined in 1996 19 115. Carbamate prodrugs of hydroxy and amino groups are also included as are carbonate prodrugs sulfonate esters and sulfate esters of hydroxy groups. Derivatization of hydroxy groups as acyloxy methyl and acyloxy ethyl ethers wherein the acyl group may be an alkyl ester optionally substituted with groups including but not limited to ether amine and carboxylic acid functionalities or where the acyl group is an amino acid ester as described above are also encompassed. Prodrugs of this type are described in 1996 39 10. More specific examples include replacement of the hydrogen atom of the alcohol group with a group such as C C alkanoyloxymethyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl 1 methyl 1 C C alkanoyloxy ethyl C C alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl N C C alkoxycarbonylaminomethyl succinoyl C C alkanoyl amino C C alkanoyl arylacyl and aminoacyl or aminoacyl aminoacyl where each aminoacyl group is independently selected from the naturally occurring L amino acids P O OH P O O C C alkyl or glycosyl the radical resulting from the removal of a hydroxyl group of the hemiacetal form of a carbohydrate .

Free amines of compounds of Formula I or Ia can also be derivatized as amides sulfonamides or phosphonamides. All of these moieties may incorporate groups including but not limited to ether amine and carboxylic acid functionalities. For example a prodrug can be formed by the replacement of a hydrogen atom in the amine group with a group such as R carbonyl RO carbonyl NRR carbonyl wherein R and R are each independently C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl or benzyl or R carbonyl is a natural aminoacyl or natural aminoacyl natural aminoacyl C OH C O OY wherein Y is H C C alkyl or benzyl C OY Ywherein Yis C C alkyl and Yis C C alkyl carboxy C C alkyl amino C C alkyl or mono N or di N N C C alkylaminoalkyl or C Y Ywherein Yis H or methyl and Yis mono N or di N N C C alkylamino morpholino piperidin 1 yl or pyrrolidin 1 yl.

For additional examples of prodrug derivatives see for example a edited by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 and Vol. 42 p. 309 396 edited by K. Widder et al. Academic Press 1985 b edited by Krogsgaard Larsen and H. Bundgaard Chapter 5 by H. Bundgaard p. 113 191 1991 c H. Bundgaard 8 1 38 1992 d H. Bundgaard et al. 77 285 1988 and e N. Kakeya et al. 32 692 1984 each of which is specifically incorporated herein by reference.

Alternatively or additionally compound of the invention may possess a sufficiently acidic group a sufficiently basic group or both functional groups and accordingly react with any of a number of inorganic or organic bases or acids to form a salt. Examples of salts include those salts prepared by reaction of the compounds of the present invention with a mineral or organic acid or an inorganic base such salts including but not limited to sulfates pyrosulfates bisulfates sulfites bisulfites phosphates monohydrogenphosphates dihydrogenphosphates metaphosphates pyrophosphates chlorides bromides iodides acetates propionates decanoates caprylates acrylates formates isobutyrates caproates heptanoates propiolates oxalates malonates succinates suberates sebacates fumarates maleates butyn 1 4 dioates hexyne 1 6 dioates benzoates chlorobenzoates methylbenzoates dinitrobenzoates hydroxybenzoates methoxybenzoates phthalates sulfonates xylenesulfonates phenylacetates phenylpropionates phenylbutyrates citrates lactates hydroxybutyrates glycollates tartrates methanesulfonates propanesulfonates naphthalene 1 sulfonates naphthalene 2 sulfonates and mandelates. Since a single compound of the present invention may include more than one acidic or basic moiety the compounds of the present invention may include mono di or tri salts in a single compound.

If the inventive compound is a base the desired salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example by treatment of the free base with an acidic compound for example an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the inventive compound is an acid the desired salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example by treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base. Examples of suitable inorganic salts include those formed with alkali and alkaline earth metals such as lithium sodium potassium barium and calcium. Examples of suitable organic base salts include for example ammonium dibenzylammonium benzylammonium 2 hydroxyethylammonium bis 2 hydroxyethyl ammonium phenylethylbenzylamine dibenzylethylenediamine and the like salts. Other salts of acidic moieties may include for example those salts formed with procaine quinine and N methylglucosamine plus salts formed with basic amino acids such as glycine ornithine histidine phenylglycine lysine and arginine.

In certain embodiments the salt is a pharmaceutically acceptable salt which unless otherwise indicated includes salts that retain the biological effectiveness of the corresponding free acid or base of the specified compound and are not biologically or otherwise undesirable.

The compounds of Formula I or Ia also include other salts of such compounds which are not necessarily pharmaceutically acceptable salts and which may be useful as intermediates for preparing and or purifying compounds of Formula I or Ia and or for separating enantiomers of compounds of Formula I or Ia.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of compounds of Formula I or Ia described herein. A metabolite is a pharmacologically active product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of Formula I or Ia including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

Metabolites are identified for example by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to a human allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolites so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

Compounds of this invention may be synthesized by synthetic routes that include processes analogous to those well known in the chemical arts particularly in light of the description contained herein. The starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser 1 19 Wiley N.Y. 1967 1999 ed. or 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements .

Compounds of Formula I or Ia may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds. Libraries of compounds of Formula I or Ia may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds of Formula I or salts thereof.

For illustrative purposes Schemes 1 4 and Schemes A K show general methods for preparing the compounds of the present invention as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples section below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the Schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

Scheme 1 shows a method of preparing compound 106 of Formula I wherein Rand Rare H. According to Scheme 1 treatment of the ketoester 101 with formamidine in the presence of a base such as sodium ethoxide provides the 4 hydroxypyrimidine 102 . Transformation of the hydroxyl group of compound 102 to halogen group such as Cl may be realized by the treatment of compound 102 with a halogenating reagent such as POClto provide compound 103 . Replacement of the chloro group of compound 103 with piperazine yields the intermediate 104 . Deprotection of the intermediate 104 and followed by coupling with an appropriate amino acid provides compound 106 .

Scheme 2 shows a method of preparing compounds 116 and 119 of Formula I wherein Ris Me and Ris H. According to Scheme 2 Michael addition of a thioglycolate 107 to a crotonate 108 provides the diester 109 . Intramolecular cyclization of the diester 109 in the presence of a base such as NaOEt gives the ketoester 110 . Pyrimidine formation may be accomplished by the treatment of the ketoester 110 with the formamidine and a base such as sodium ethoxide to provide compound III . Chlorination of the hydroxypyrimidine 111 with a halogenating reagent such as POCland followed by an SAr reaction with a protected piperidine 112 produces the racemic intermediate 113 . The enantiomerically pure compounds 114 and 117 can be separated by chiral HPLC. After deprotection the 4 piperazinyl pyrimidines 115 and 118 can be coupled with a suitable amino acid to provide compounds 116 and 119 respectively.

Scheme 3 shows a method of preparing compound 23 of Formula I wherein Rand Rare Me. According to Scheme 3 SAr reaction of compound 112 prepared according to Scheme 2 with 3 S 1 PG piperazine where PG is an amine protecting group in solvent such as alcohol DMF or NMP at elevated temperatures such as a temperature between about 80 180 C. gives the intermediate 120 . Chiral separation of diastereomers 120 may be achieved by chiral HPLC. The single diastereomer 121 is deprotected and coupled with a suitable amino acid to give compound 123 .

Scheme 4 shows a method of preparing compound 130 of Formula I wherein Ris ethyl and Ris methyl. According to Scheme 4 Michael addition of a thioester 117 to a pentenoate ester 124 forms an intermediate which undergoes cyclization in situ under basic conditions to give the ketoester 125 . Formation of pyrimidine 126 is achieved by treating compound 125 with formamidine under basic conditions. Chlorination of the pyrimidine 126 gives compound 127 . SAr reaction of compound 127 with a protected piperazine group provides compound 128 . After deprotection of compound 128 the resulting compound 129 is coupled with a suitable amino acid to provide compound 130 .

Accordingly another aspect of the invention provides a method of preparing compounds of Formula I comprising 

Accordingly another aspect of the invention provides a method of preparing compounds of Formula Ia comprising 

The amino acids used in the synthesis of compounds of Formula I as illustrated in Schemes 1 4 are either commercially available or may be prepared according to the methods disclosed herein. For example in certain embodiments the amino acids used to prepare compounds of Formula I include phenylglycine amino acids having the Formula 1A phenylglycine amino acids having the Formula 2A phenylalanine amino acids having the Formula 3A and phenylalanine amino acids having the Formula 4A.

Scheme A illustrates a method of preparing optionally substituted phenylglycine amino acids 25 and 26 of the Formula 1 wherein Ris H and R Rand t are as defined herein and Ris H or an amine protecting group. According to Scheme A the acid 20 is converted to an ester 21 wherein R is alkyl using standard conditions such as treatment with an appropriate alcohol e.g. MeOH in the presence of a catalytic amount of an acid such as concentrated HSOor a coupling agent such as DCC DMAP or alternatively by treatment with an appropriate electrophile e.g. MeI EtBr BnBr in the presence of a base such as NEt DMAP at an appropriate temperature e.g. 20 C. to 100 C. . The appropriate choice of ester is determined by the conditions required to reform the acid at the end of the synthesis with many appropriate examples and conditions being listed in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Greene and Wuts Wiley Interscience third edition Chapter 5. Introduction of the hydroxymethyl group to provide compound 22 may be performed by treatment with an appropriate aldehyde e.g. formaldehyde in the presence of base such as NaOEt at an appropriate temperature e.g. 20 C. to room temperature . Activation of the alcohol group of compound 22 to form a leaving group e.g. a mesylate tosylate halide may be accomplished by treatment with for example methanesulphonyl chloride in the presence of excess base such as NEt DIPEA or DBU at an appropriate temperature e.g. 20 C. to room temperature . In many cases the olefin 24 can be isolated directly from this procedure in other cases warming 30 C. to 100 C. or additional base e.g. DBU in the case of halide may be required to complete the elimination to provide compound 24. The activated olefin 24 may be treated with the desired primary amine e.g. ethylamine in a suitable solvent such as THF at an appropriate temperature e.g. 20 C. to reflux to generate the aminoester intermediate. In the case wherein compound 24 has an electron rich aromatic ring or electron poor bulky primary amine heating e.g. 30 240 C. in a sealed tube or microwave chemistry may be required. Protection of the amine group for example as Boc group may be accomplished using BocO under standard conditions to provide compound 23 wherein Pg is a protecting group. Alternative protecting groups may be used and many appropriate examples are listed in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Greene and Wuts Wiley Interscience third edition Chapter 7. Saponification of the ester 23 to form the protected amino acid 25 may be accomplished using conditions appropriate for the ester e.g. aqueous LiOH for methyl esters hydrogenation for benzyl esters acid for t butyl esters .

Alternatively the activated olefin 24 may be treated with a secondary amine e.g. diethylamine in a suitable solvent such as THF at an appropriate temperature e.g. 20 C. to reflux to generate the aminoester intermediate not shown . In the case wherein compound 24 has an electron rich aromatic ring or electron poor bulky secondary amine heating e.g. 30 240 C. in a sealed tube or microwave chemistry may be required. Saponification of the ester to form the amino acid 26 may be accomplished using conditions appropriate for the ester e.g. aqueous LiOH for methyl esters hydrogenation for benzyl esters acid for t butyl esters etc. .

Scheme B shows a method of preparing optionally substituted phenylglycine amino acids 30 and 31 of Formula 1 wherein Ris OH Rand Rare H and R Rand t are as defined herein and Ris as defined herein or an amine protecting group. Oxidation of the unsaturated ester 24 prepared according to Scheme A wherein t is 0 4 and R is alkyl using a standard oxidizing agent such as MCPBA at an appropriate temperature room temperature to reflux provides the epoxide intermediate 28. Intermediate 28 may be treated with an appropriate amine typically at high temperature e.g. 50 300 C. and high pressure e.g. in a sealed tube or a bomb to give the amino alcohol 29 or 30. If a secondary amine is used such as in the preparation of compound 30 then deprotection of the ester using conditions listed in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Greene and Wuts Wiley Interscience third edition Chapter 5 may be used e.g. LiOH for a methyl ester hydrogenation for a benzyl ester etc . When a primary amine is used such as in the preparation of compound 29 protection of the amine e.g. as a Boc group using Boc anhydride followed by deprotection of the ester using the above conditions provide the hydroxylated amino acid 31.

Scheme C shows a method of preparing optionally substituted phenylglycine amino acids 36 of the Formula 1 wherein Ris methyl Rand Rare H Ris H Ris H or an amine protecting group and Rand t are as defined herein. The ester 32 wherein R is alkyl can be treated with a base e.g. NaOtBu at an appropriate temperature e.g. 0 C. to reflux to form the anion followed by addition of an electrophile e.g. tert butyl 2 bromoacetate at an appropriate temperature e.g 78 C. to room temperature to give the homologated ester 33. Saponification of the t butyl ester of compound 33 using an appropriate acid such as TFA or HCl at an appropriate temperature e.g 0 C. to reflux provides compound 34. A Curtius rearrangement of compound 34 using for example DPPA in the presence of mild base such as NEtat an appropriate temperature e.g. 0 C. to reflux followed by treatment of the reactive intermediate with an alcohol e.g. tBuOH optionally in the presence of a Lewis acid e.g. SnCl at higher temperature e.g. 40 200 C. provides compound 35 wherein Pg is an amine protecting group. The choice of alcohol used to prepare compound 35 determines the amine protecting group e.g. tBuOH provides the Boc amine . Deprotection of the ester group of compound 35 using standard conditions e.g. with LiOH when the protecting group is a methyl ester hydrogenation for a benzyl ester etc. gives the acid compound 36.

Scheme D shows a method of preparing optionally substituted phenylglycine amino acids 40 of Formula 2 wherein R R Rand t are as defined herein Ris H and Ris an amine protecting group such as Boc. The starting unsaturated ester 24 prepared according to Scheme A can be treated with a substituted nitromethane derivative e.g. nitroethane in the presence of a base such as DBU at an appropriate temperature e.g. 0 C. to room temperature to give the homologated adduct 37. The nitro group of compound 37 can be reduced using standard conditions e.g. hydrogenation Zn acid etc. at an appropriate temperature e.g. room temperature to reflux and the resulting intermediate can be cyclized to give the lactam intermediate 38. Protection of the amine for example with a Boc group to provide compound 39 may be accomplished using BocO under standard conditions. Alternative protecting groups may be used and many appropriate examples are listed in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Greene and Wuts Wiley Interscience third edition Chapter 7. Treatment of compound 39 with an aqueous base such as LiOH or KOH at an appropriate temperature e.g. 0 to 100 C. effects ring opening of the lactam to give the appropriately substituted protected amino acid compound 40.

Scheme E shows a method of making optionally substituted phenylglycine amino acids 44 of Formula 2 wherein Ris methyl Rand Rare H Ris H Ris an amine protecting group and Rand t are defined herein. The ester 32 wherein R is alkyl and t is 0 4 can be treated with a suitable base such as KOtBu at an appropriate temperature e.g. 0 C. to reflux to form the anion followed by addition of an acrylate unit e.g. t butylacrylate at a temperature ranging from 78 C. to room temperature to give the homologated ester 41. Saponification of the t butyl ester of compound 41 by treatment with a suitable acid such as TFA or HCl at an appropriate temperature e.g 0 C. to reflux provides compound 42. A Curtius rearrangement of compound 42 using for example DPPA in the presence of mild base such as NEtat an appropriate temperature e.g. 0 C. to reflux followed by treatment of the reactive intermediate with an appropriate alcohol e.g. tBuOH optionally in the presence of a Lewis acid e.g. SnCl at elevated temperatures e.g. 40 200 C. provides compound 43. The choice of alcohol determines the amine protecting group of compound 43 e.g. tBuOH provides the Boc amine . Deprotection of the ester of compound 43 under standard conditions e.g. LiOH for a methyl ester hydrogenation for a benzyl ester etc. gives the acid 44.

Scheme F shows a method of preparing optionally substituted phenylalanine amino acids 48 49 and 50 of Formula 3 wherein Ris H Ris an amine protecting group Rand Rare H and Rand t are as defined herein. An appropriately substituted aldehyde 45 can be treated with a cyanoacetate of the formula CN CHCOR wherein R is alkyl e.g. ethyl 2 cyanoacetate in the presence of a suitable base such as piperidine at an appropriate temperature e.g. room temperature to reflux to give the unsaturated ester 46. Reduction of the olefin and the nitrile groups of compound 46 to provide compound 47 may be accomplished in a number of ways. For example the olefin may be reduced with any agent known to effect 1 4 reductions such as NaBH. The nitrile may be reduced using agents such as LiAlHor NaBHin the presence of a Lewis acid such as BF.OEtor TFA. A number of alternative reducing agents may be used such as those listed in Reductions in Organic Chemistry by Hudlicky ACS monograph 2edition Chapter 18. If desired the primary amine 47 can be monoalkylated or bisalkylated at this stage using standard conditions e.g. reductive amination using an appropriate aldehyde Lewis acid and reducing agent to provide intermediates not shown en route to compounds 48 and 49. To prepare primary and secondary amines protection may be accomplished using any number of protecting groups e.g. Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Greene and Wuts Wiley Interscience third edition Chapter 7 for example as a Boc group using Boc anhydride at 0 C. to room temperature. Cleavage of the ester group to form the amino acid 48 49 or 50 may be accomplished using an aqueous bases such as LiOH or KOH or any of the alternative reagents listed in the aforementioned Protecting Groups text e.g. hydrogenation for a benzyl ester .

Scheme G shows a method of preparing optionally substituted phenylalanine amino acids 54 of Formula 4 wherein Ris H Ris an amine protecting group and Rand t are as defined herein. An appropriately substituted acid 51 may be reduced to the benzyl alcohol 52 using for example LiAlHat a temperature ranging from room temperature to reflux. The alcohol group of compound 52 can be activated as a leaving group e.g. halide mesylate etc. using for example PBr MsCl NEt etc. Displacement of this leaving group using a protected glycine derivative such as ethyl 2 diphenylmethyleneamino acetate in the presence of strong base such as LDA nBuLi provides the amino ester intermediate 53 wherein Ris alkyl and Pg is a protecting group. Appropriate protecting groups are listed in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Greene and Wuts Wiley Interscience . The amine protecting group may be changed at this stage for example to introduce a Boc group. Subsequent deprotection of the ester 53 e.g. using 3N HCl LiOH hydrogenation for a benzyl ester etc. at an appropriate temperature e.g. 0 C. to reflux provides the desired N protected amino acid 54.

Scheme H shows a method of preparing optionally substituted phenylglycine amino acids 56 of Formula 2 wherein Rand Rare H Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a spirocyclic heterocyclic ring Ris an amine protecting group and Rand t are as defined herein. According to Scheme H the unsaturated ester 24 can be treated with a suitably protected glycine derivative e.g. benzylglycine and formaldehyde under dry conditions e.g. with addition of molecular sieves at an appropriate temperature e.g. room temperature to reflux to generate compound 55. Cleavage of the benzyl group using standard conditions e.g. via hydrogenation 1 chloroethylformate etc. followed by addition of an amine protecting group such as a Boc group and cleavage of the ester under standard conditions e.g. LiOH for a methyl ester acid for a t butyl ester etc. at 0 C. to reflux provides the N protected amino acid 56.

Scheme I shows a method of preparing optionally substituted phenylalanine amino acids 61 and 62 of Formula 3 wherein Rand Rare H Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a heterocyclic ring and R Rand t are as defined herein. The acid 57 is converted to an ester 58 using standard conditions such as treatment with an appropriate alcohol e.g. MeOH in the presence of either catalytic acid e.g. concentrated HSOor TMSCl or a coupling agent e.g. DCC DMAP or alternatively by treatment with an appropriate electrophile e.g. MeI EtBr BnBr in the presence of a suitable base such as NEt DMAP at appropriate temperatures e.g. 20 C. to 100 C. . The appropriate choice of ester is determined by the conditions required to reform the acid at the end of the synthesis such as described in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Greene and Wuts Wiley Interscience third edition Chapter 5. Cyclization of compound 58 to provide compound 59 may be achieved using for example N methoxymethyl phenyl N trimethylsilyl methyl methanamine in the presence of TFA. This particular set of reagents generates the benzylamine which can be cleaved to provide compound 60 under standard conditions such as hydrogenation at 20 C. to 50 C. or any other standard conditions such as those listed in Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis by Greene and Wuts Wiley Interscience third edition Chapter 7. Protection of the free amine of compound 60 with an alternative protecting group e.g. Boc using reagents listed in the aforementioned text such as Boc anhydride followed by cleavage of the ester using standard conditions appropriate for the ester e.g. aqueous LiOH for methyl esters hydrogenation for benzyl esters acid for t butyl esters provides the acid compound 61. Alternatively the free amine can be functionalized further e.g. using alkylation reductive amination or acylation conditions followed by ester cleavage to generate the tertiary amino acid compound 62.

Either enantiomer of the beta amino acids may be prepared using a procedure such as that shown in Scheme J. A 2 phenylacetate coupled with an appropriate chiral auxiliary R for example an Evans auxiliary or a Sultam with the appropriate stereochemistry to generate the desired chemistry at the beta position of the amino acid may be treated with an imine or iminium ion synthon e.g. prepared in situ by the presence of a Lewis acid e.g. TiCl and an appropriately substituted alkoxymethanamine or N alkoxymethyl amide carbamate at 100 C. to 50 C. . The asymmetric addition may require the presence of Lewis acids e.g. TiCl amine bases e.g. Hunig s base and lower temperatures e.g. 100 C. to 0 C. to generate the best levels of stereochemical induction. If the diastereoselectivity is lower than required the separate diastereomers may be separated at this stage by for example chromatography or crystallization. Cleavage of the chiral auxillary using methods known to cleave the chosen auxiliary e.g. LiOH HOat 50 C. to 50 C. for the Evans auxillary then leads to the desired N protected beta amino acid with the desired stereochemistry at the beta position. Additionally if Ris also a protecting group e.g. 2 4 dimethoxybenzyl it may be removed in the presence of the Boc group e.g. hydrogenation or DDQ etc. to give the Boc amino acid which upon removal of the Boc group would provide the primary amine which may be further functionalized by alkylation acylation or reductive amination either prior to or after coupling with the pyrimidine piperazine unit .

Scheme K shows representative methods of forming the single enantiomers of the gamma amino acids wherein R R and Rare as defined herein t is 0 to 4 Ris H and Ris an amine protecting group such as Boc. In one possible method the racemic amino acid is subject to chiral chromatographic separation using a chiral stationary phase. Alternatively a diastereomeric mixture may be prepared which could be separated by conventional chromatographic techniques. For example activation of the racemic amino acid e.g. COCl base and introduction of a chiral auxiliary R e.g. an Evans oxazolidinone in the presence of a basic amine e.g. Hunig s base at 20 C. to 50 C. gives the diastereomeric mixture. This mixture may be separated using standard conditions e.g. column chromatography HPLC SFC etc. to give the individual diastereomers. These may be converted to the desired acids by cleavage of the chiral auxiliary in the case of an Evans auxiliary by using for example LiOH HOOH at 15 C. to room temperature to give the single enantiomers of the gamma amino acids. The temperature may need to be kept low so as to prevent racemization of the newly separated chiral center.

In preparing compounds of Formula I or Ia protection of remote functionalities e.g. primary or secondary amines etc. of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups NH Pg include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

In any of the synthetic methods for preparing compounds of Formula I or Ia it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a reaction mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved. For example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. . 1975 113 3 283 302 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Drug Stereochemistry Analytical Methods and Pharmacology Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Under method 1 diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively by method 2 the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob III. . 1982 47 4165 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the H NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase Chiral Liquid Chromatography 1989 W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York Okamoto . 1990 513 375 378 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

The compounds of the present invention can be used as prophylactics or therapeutic agents for treating diseases or disorders mediated by modulation or regulation of AKT protein kinases tyrosine kinases additional serine threonine kinases and or dual specificity kinases. AKT protein kinase mediated conditions that can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to inflammatory hyperproliferative cardiovascular neurodegenerative gynecological and dermatological diseases and disorders.

In one embodiment said pharmaceutical composition is for the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders including cancers of the following categories 1 Cardiac sarcoma angiosarcoma fibrosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma liposarcoma myxoma rhabdomyoma fibroma lipoma and teratoma 2 Lung bronchogenic carcinoma squamous cell undifferentiated small cell undifferentiated large cell adenocarcinoma alveolar bronchiolar carcinoma bronchial adenoma sarcoma lymphoma chondromatous hamartoma mesothelioma non small cell lung small cell lung 3 Gastrointestinal esophagus squamous cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma leiomyosarcoma lymphoma stomach carcinoma lymphoma leiomyosarcoma pancreas ductal adenocarcinoma insulinoma glucagonoma gastrinoma carcinoid tumors vipoma small bowel adenocarcinoma lymphoma carcinoid tumors Karposi s sarcoma leiomyoma hemangioma lipoma neurofibroma fibroma large bowel adenocarcinoma tubular adenoma villous adenoma hamartoma leiomyoma 4 Genitourinary tract kidney adenocarcinoma Wilm s tumor nephroblastoma lymphoma leukemia bladder and urethra squamous cell carcinoma transitional cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma prostate adenocarcinoma sarcoma testis seminoma teratoma embryonal carcinoma teratocarcinoma choriocarcinoma sarcoma interstitial cell carcinoma fibroma fibroadenoma adenomatoid tumors lipoma 5 Liver hepatoma hepatocellular carcinoma cholangiocarcinoma hepatoblastoma angiosarcoma hepatocellular adenoma hemangioma 6 Bone osteogenic sarcoma osteosarcoma fibrosarcoma malignant fibrous histiocytoma chondrosarcoma Ewing s sarcoma malignant lymphoma reticulum cell sarcoma multiple myeloma malignant giant cell tumor chordoma osteochronfroma osteocartilaginous exostoses benign chondroma chondroblastoma chondromyxofibroma osteoid osteoma and giant cell tumors 7 Nervous system skull osteoma hemangioma granuloma xanthoma osteitis deformans meninges meningioma meningiosarcoma gliomatosis brain astrocytoma medulloblastoma glioma ependymoma germinoma pinealoma glioblastoma multiform. oligodendroglioma schwannoma retinoblastoma congenital tumors spinal cord neurofibroma meningioma glioma sarcoma 8 Gynecological uterus endometrial carcinoma cervix cervical carcinoma pre tumor cervical dysplasia ovaries ovarian carcinoma serous cystadenocarcinoma mucinous cystadenocarcinoma unclassified carcinoma granulosa thecal cell tumors Sertoli Leydig cell tumors dysgerminoma malignant teratoma vulva squamous cell carcinoma intraepithelial carcinoma adenocarcinoma fibrosarcoma melanoma vagina clear cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma botryoid sarcoma embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma fallopian tubes carcinoma 9 Hematologic blood myeloid leukemia acute and chronic acute lymphoblastic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia myeloproliferative diseases multiple myeloma myelodysplastic syndrome Hodgkin s disease non Hodgkin s lymphoma malignant lymphoma 10 Skin advanced melanoma malignant melanoma basal cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma Karposi s sarcoma moles dysplastic nevi lipoma angioma dermatofibroma keloids psoriasis 11 Adrenal glands neuroblastoma 12 Breast metastatic breast breast adenocarcinoma 13 Colon 14 Oral cavity 15 Hairy cell leukemia 16 Head and neck 17 and others including refractory metastatic disease Kaposi s sarcoma Bannayan Zonana syndrome and Cowden disease or Lhermitte Duclos disease among other kinds of hyperproliferative disorders.

Compounds and methods of this invention can be also used to treat diseases and conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis Chron s disease angiofibroma ocular diseases e.g. retinal vascularisation diabetic retinopathy age related macular degeneration macular degeneration etc. multiple sclerosis obesity Alzheimer s disease restenosis autoimmune diseases allergy asthma endometriosis atherosclerosis vein graft stenosis peri anastomatic prothetic graft stenosis prostate hyperplasia chronic obstructive pulmonary disease psoriasis inhibition of neurological damage due to tissue repair scar tissue formation and can aid in wound healing multiple sclerosis inflammatory bowel disease infections particularly bacterial viral retroviral or parasitic infections by increasing apoptosis pulmonary disease neoplasm Parkinson s disease transplant rejection as an immunosupressant septic shock etc.

Accordingly another aspect of this invention provides a method of treating diseases or medical conditions in a mammal mediated by AKT protein kinases comprising administering to said mammal one or more compounds of Formula I or Ia or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in an amount effective to treat or prevent said disorder.

The phrase effective amount means an amount of compound that when administered to a mammal in need of such treatment is sufficient to i treat or prevent a particular disease condition or disorder mediated by the activity of one or more AKT protein kinases tyrosine kinases additional serine threonine kinases and or dual specificity kinases ii attenuate ameliorate or eliminate one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevent or delay the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer an effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The amount of a compound of Formula I or Ia that will correspond to such an amount will vary depending upon factors such as the particular compound disease condition and its severity the identity e.g. weight of the mammal in need of treatment but can nevertheless be routinely determined by one skilled in the art.

 Treating is intended to mean at least the mitigation of a disease condition in a mammal such as a human that is affected at least in part by the activity of one or more AKT protein kinases tyrosine kinases additional serine threonine kinases and or dual specificity kinases. The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those found to be predisposed to having the disease condition but have not yet been diagnosed as having it modulating and or inhibiting the disease condition. The terms treating treat or treatment embrace both preventative i.e. prophylactic and palliative treatment.

As used herein the term mammal refers to a warm blooded animal that has or is at risk of developing a disease described herein and includes but is not limited to guinea pigs dogs cats rats mice hamsters and primates including humans.

This invention also provides compounds of Formula I or Ia for use in the treatment of AKT protein kinase mediated conditions.

An additional aspect of the invention is the use of a compound of Formula I or Ia in the preparation of a medicament for therapy such as for the treatment or prevention of AKT protein kinase mediated conditions.

The compounds of the present invention can be used in combination with one or more additional drugs such as described below. The dose of the second drug can be appropriately selected based on a clinically employed dose. The proportion of the compound of the present invention and the second drug can be appropriately determined according to the administration subject the administration route the target disease the clinical condition the combination and other factors. In cases where the administration subject is a human for instance the second drug may be used in an amount of 0.01 to 100 parts by weight per part by weight of the compound of the present invention.

The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the compound of this invention such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such drugs are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. Accordingly another aspect of the present invention provides a composition comprising a compound of this invention in combination with a second drug such as described herein.

A compound of this invention and the additional pharmaceutically active drug s may be administered together in a unitary pharmaceutical composition or separately and when administered separately this may occur simultaneously or sequentially in any order. Such sequential administration may be close in time or remote in time. The amounts of the compound of this invention and the second drug s and the relative timings of administration will be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer regardless of mechanism of action. Chemotherapeutic agents include compounds used in targeted therapy and conventional chemotherapy.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs Irinotecan CAMPTOSAR Pfizer and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranmbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are therapeutic antibodies such as alemtuzumab Campath bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech tositumomab Bexxar Corixia and the antibody drug conjugate gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as chemotherapeutic agents in combination with the PI3K inhibitors of the invention include alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab and visilizumab.

The compounds of the invention may be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition that comprises a compound of this invention. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition comprises a compound of Formula I or Ia in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the disorder. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The composition for use herein is preferably sterile. In particular formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. Such sterilization is readily accomplished for example by filtration through sterile filtration membranes. The compound ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

Pharmaceutical formulations of the compounds of the present invention may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of this invention having the desired degree of purity may optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation a milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment. The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more excipients.

The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The formulations may also include one or more stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacrylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nanoparticles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 . A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as a compound of Formula I and optionally an additional therapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

Sustained release preparations of compounds of this invention may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I or Ia which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The pharmaceutical compositions of compounds of this invention may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

The compositions of the invention may also be in a form suitable for oral use for example as tablets lozenges hard or soft capsules aqueous or oily suspensions emulsions dispersible powders or granules syrups or elixirs for topical use for example as creams ointments gels or aqueous or oily solutions or suspensions for administration by inhalation for example as a finely divided powder or a liquid aerosol for administration by insufflation for example as a finely divided powder 

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable excipients for a tablet formulation include for example inert diluents such as lactose sodium carbonate calcium phosphate or calcium carbonate granulating and disintegrating agents such as corn starch or algenic acid binding agents such as starch lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc preservative agents such as ethyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate and anti oxidants such as ascorbic acid. Tablet formulations may be uncoated or coated either to modify their disintegration and the subsequent absorption of the active ingredient within the gastrointestinal tract or to improve their stability and or appearance in either case using conventional coating agents and procedures well known in the art.

Compositions for oral use may be in the form of hard gelatin capsules in which the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules in which the active ingredient is mixed with water or an oil such as peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions generally contain the active ingredient in finely powdered form together with one or more suspending agents such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinyl pyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia dispersing or wetting agents such as lecithin or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids for example polyoxethylene stearate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain aliphatic alcohols for example heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate or condensation products of ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example polyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoate anti oxidants such as ascorbic acid coloring agents flavoring agents and or sweetening agents such as sucrose saccharine or aspartame .

Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil such as arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in a mineral oil such as liquid paraffin . The oily suspensions may also contain a thickening agent such as beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents such as those set out above and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid.

Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous suspension by the addition of water generally contain the active ingredient together with a dispersing or wetting agent suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents are exemplified by those already mentioned above. Additional excipients such as sweetening flavoring and coloring agents may also be present.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may also be in the form of oil in water emulsions. The oily phase may be a vegetable oil such as olive oil or arachis oil or a mineral oil such as for example liquid paraffin or a mixture of any of these. Suitable emulsifying agents may be for example naturally occurring gums such as gum acacia or gum tragacanth naturally occurring phosphatides such as soya bean lecithin esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides for example sorbitan monooleate and condensation products of the said partial esters with ethylene oxide such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The emulsions may also contain sweetening flavoring and preservative agents.

Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents such as glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol aspartame or sucrose and may also contain a demulcent preservative flavoring and or coloring agent.

Suppository formulations may be prepared by mixing the active ingredient with a suitable non irritating excipient that is solid at ordinary temperatures but liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug. Suitable excipients include for example cocoa butter and polyethylene glycols. Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

Topical formulations such as creams ointments gels and aqueous or oily solutions or suspensions may generally be obtained by formulating an active ingredient with a conventional topically acceptable vehicle or diluent using conventional procedures well known in the art.

Compositions for transdermal administration may be in the form of those transdermal skin patches that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. For example an article for distribution can include a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings. The formulations may also be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

The amount of a compound of this invention that is combined with one or more excipients to produce a single dosage form will necessarily vary depending upon the subject treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. In one embodiment a suitable amount of a compound of this invention is administered to a mammal in need thereof. Administration in one embodiment occurs in an amount between about 0.001 mg kg of body weight to about 60 mg kg of body weight per day. In another embodiment administration occurs in an amount between 0.5 mg kg of body weight to about 40 mg kg of body weight per day. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day. For further information on routes of administration and dosage regimes see Chapter 25.3 in Volume 5 of Corwin Hansch Chairman of Editorial Board Pergamon Press 1990 which is specifically incorporated herein by reference.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing materials useful for the treatment of the disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a compound of this invention. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of this invention or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle .

The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a compound of this invention can be used to treat a disorder mediated for example by AKT kinase. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders.

In certain embodiments the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of this invention such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to another embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of this invention contained therein and b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound useful for treating a disorder mediated by AKT kinase. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of this invention and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of this invention and a second pharmaceutical formulation the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In certain other embodiments wherein the kit comprises a composition of this invention and a second therapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. In certain embodiments the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms e.g. oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Accordingly a further aspect of this invention provides a kit for treating a disorder or disease mediated by Akt kinase wherein said kit comprises a a first pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and b instructions for use.

In certain embodiments the kit further comprises c a second pharmaceutical composition wherein the second pharmaceutical composition comprises a second compound suitable for treating a disorder or disease mediated by Akt kinase. In certain embodiments comprising a second pharmaceutical composition the kit further comprises instructions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of said first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof. In certain embodiments said first and second pharmaceutical compositions are contained in separate containers. In other embodiments said first and second pharmaceutical compositions are contained in the same container.

Although the compounds of Formula I or Ia are primarily of value as therapeutic agents for use in mammals they are also useful whenever it is required to control AKT protein kinases tyrosine kinases additional serine threonine kinases and or dual specificity kinases. Thus they are useful as pharmacological standards for use in the development of new biological tests and in the search for new pharmacological agents.

The activity of the compounds of this invention may be assayed for AKT protein kinases tyrosine kinases additional serine threonine kinases and or dual specificity kinases in vitro in vivo or in a cell line. In vitro assays include assays that determine inhibition of the kinase activity. Alternate in vitro assays quantitate the ability of the inhibitor to bind to kinases and may be measured either by radiolabelling the inhibitor prior to binding isolating the inhibitor kinase complex and determining the amount of radiolabel bound or by running a competition experiment where new inhibitors are incubated with known radioligands. These and other useful in vitro and cell culture assays are well known to those of skill in the art.

Although the invention has been described and illustrated with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the combination and arrangement of parts can be resorted to by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as hereinafter claimed.

The activity of the compounds described in the present invention may be determined by the following kinase assay which measures the phosphorylation of a fluorescently labeled peptide by full length human recombinant active AKT 1 by fluorescent polarization using a commercially available IMAP kit.

The assay materials are obtained from an IMAP AKT Assay Bulk Kit product R8059 from Molecular Devices Sunnyvale Calif. The kit materials include an IMAP Reaction Buffer 5 . The diluted 1 IMAP Reaction Buffer contained 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.2 10 mM MgCl 0.1 BSA 0.05 NaN. DTT is routinely added to a final concentration of 1 mM immediately prior to use. Also included is IMAP Binding Buffer 5 and IMAP Binding Reagent. The Binding Solution is prepared as a 1 400 dilution of IMAP Binding Reagent into 1 IMAP Binding Buffer.

The fluorescein labeled AKT Substrate Crosstide has the sequence F1 GRPRTSSFAEG. A stock solution of 20 M is made up in 1 IMAP Reaction Buffer.

The plates used include a Costar 3657 382 well made of polypropylene and having a white v bottom that is used for compound dilution and for preparing the compound ATP mixture. The assay plate is a Packard ProxyPlate 384 F.

The AKT 1 used is made from full length human recombinant AKT 1 that is activated with PDK1 and MAP kinase 2.

To perform the assay stock solutions of compounds at 10 mM in DMSO are prepared. The stock solutions and the control compound are serially diluted 1 2 nine times into DMSO 10 L of compound 10 L of DMSO to give 50 dilution series over the desired dosing range. Next 2.1 L aliquots of the compounds in DMSO are transferred to a Costar 3657 plate containing 50 L of 10.4 M ATP in 1 IMAP Reaction Buffer containing 1 mM DTT. After thorough mixing 2.5 L aliquots are transferred to a ProxyPlate 384 F plate.

The assay is initiated by the addition of 2.5 L aliquots of a solution containing 200 nM of fluorescently labeled peptide substrate and 4 nM AKT 1. The plate is centrifuged for 1 minute at 1000 g and incubated for 60 minute at ambient temperature. The reaction is then quenched by the addition of 15 L of Binding Solution centrifuged again and incubated for an additional 30 minutes at ambient temperature prior to reading on a Victor 1420 Multilabel HTS Counter configured to measure fluorescence polarization.

The compounds of Examples 1 74 were tested in the above assay and found to have an ICof less than 10 M.

In order to illustrate the invention the following examples are included. However it is to be understood that these examples do not limit the invention and are only meant to suggest a method of practicing the invention. Persons skilled in the art will recognize that the chemical reactions described may be readily adapted to prepare a number of other compounds of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

In the examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius. Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Company Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated. Tetrahydrofuran THF dichloromethane DCM toluene and dioxane were purchased from Aldrich in Sure seal bottles and used as received.

The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried.

To a mixture of methyl thioglycolate 45 mL 503.2 mmol and piperidine 0.8 mL at 0 C. was slowly added methyl crotonate 67 mL 631.7 mmol . Additional piperidine 0.8 mL was added in two portions after ten and twenty minutes. After stirring for 15 hours the mixture was purified by vacuum distillation. The fraction was collected at 110 112 C. to give methyl 3 2 methoxy 2 oxoethylthio butanoate 92 g 89 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 3.75 s 3H 3.70 s 3H 3.38 3.44 m 3H 2.71 2.46 m 2H 1.36 d J 6.8 Hz 3H .

A three neck flask was charged with NaOEt 21 200 mL 537 mmol in ethanol. The solvent was removed under vacuum and to the residue was added toluene 500 mL . The mixture was heated to reflux and methyl 3 2 methoxy 2 oxoethylthio butanoate 92 g 446 mmol was added dropwise. After addition was complete the mixture was refluxed for 4 hours. After cooling the mixture was poured into a mixture of acetic acid 200 g and crushed ice 200 g . The mixture was stirred overnight and then diluted with ethyl acetate 500 mL . The organic phase was separated and washed with saturated NaCOand brine and then dried. The solvent was removed to afford crude methyl 2 methyl 4 oxo tetrahydrothiophene 3 carboxylate 77.7 g 99 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 11.23 11.15 d 1H 7.27 7.16 m 2H 4.33 4.12 m 2H 3.95 3.68 m 2H . 3.60 3.15 m 1H 2.60 2.20 m 1H .

To a solution of formamidine HCl salt 37.3 g 463 mmol in ethanol 300 mL was slowly added NaOEt 21 169 mL 453 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then filtered. To the filtrate was added methyl 2 methyl 4 oxo tetrahydrothiophene 3 carboxylate 79 g 453 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour and then refluxed overnight. After cooling the solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluted with Hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 0 1 DCM MeOH 20 1 to afford 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ol 36 g 47 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 12.83 s 1H 4.68 m 1H 4.32 4.08 m 2H 1.66 m 3H . MS APCI M H 169.

5 Methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ol 10 g 59.54 mmol in POCl 100 mL was heated to reflux for 15 minutes. After cooling excess POClwas removed under vacuum. The residue was dissolved in CHCl 100 mL and saturated NaHCO 400 mL was added at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The aqueous phase was extracted with DCM 3 250 mL . The organic phase was combined dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with Hexane ethyl acetate 4 1 to give 4 chloro 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 6 g 54 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.80 s 1H 4.68 m 1H 4.44 m 1H 4.13 d J 16.8 Hz 2H 1.68 d J 7.2 Hz 3H .

A solution of 4 chloro 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 4 g 21 mmol and 1 Boc piperazine 8.5 g 46 mmol in NMP 20 mL was heated to 120 C. overnight. After cooling the mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 500 mL and washed with water 6 300 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with Hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 to provide tert butyl 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate 5 g 69 . The crude material was purified by chiral separation on chiral HPLC ODH 250 20 mm 100 acetonitrile 15 mL min to give R tert butyl 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate retention time 4.016 min and S tert butyl 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate retention time 4.551 min . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.53 s 1H 4.83 m 1H 4.18 m 2H 3.73 3.56 m 4H 3.51 3.43 m 4H 1.50 m 9H . MS APCI M H 337.

To a solution of 5 tert butyl 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate 1.89 g 5.62 mmol in DCM 40 mL was added HCl 4M in dioxane 8 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed to afford S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine as the HCl salt. MS APCI M H 237.

1 1 3 3 tetramethylguanidine 2.11 ml 16.8 mmol was added to a 0 C. solution of methyl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 2 dimethoxyphosphoryl acetate 5.00 g 16.8 mmol in DCM 70 mL . The reaction mixture stirred at 0 C. for 30 minutes then a solution of 4 chloro 3 fluorobenzaldehyde 2.67 g 16.8 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added by syringe. The reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was then warmed to room temperature and stirred for 1 hour. HO was then added and the mixture was extracted with DCM. The combined extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The resulting solids were recrystallized from IPA to give Z methyl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl acrylate 3.76 g 67.8 yield as a white powder 2 crops . LCMS APCI m z 328 M H .

In each of 8 Argonaut Endeavor reaction tubes was dissolved Z methyl 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl acrylate 200 mg and Rh R R Et DuPhos COD OTf about 4 mg in 1 1 MeOH EtOAc 3 mL degassed 1 hour with nitrogen prior to use . The reaction mixtures were put on the Endeavor under 40 psi Hand stirred for 12 hours at room temperature. All of the reaction mixtures were then combined and concentrated to give R methyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl propanoate 1.52 g 94.4 yield as a pale yellow solid which was used without further purification in next step.

LiOH HO 0.6246 g 14.88 mmol was added to a solution of R methyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl propanoate 1.646 g 4.961 mmol in 1 1 THF HO 26 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours after which it was diluted with HO and washed with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was then acidified with solid KHSOand extracted with DCM. The combined extracts were dried NaSO filtered concentrated and then re concentrated from DCM hexanes to give R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl propanoic acid 1.31 g 83.10 yield as a white powder. LCMS APCI m z 316 M H .

To a solution of S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 50 mg 0.16 mmol and R 2 tert butoxycarbonyl 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl propanoic acid 51 mg 0.16 mmol in DCM 10 mL and triethylamine 2 mL was added HBTU 61 mg 0.16 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 100 mL and washed with water 5 50 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with DCM MeOH 50 1 to give tert butyl R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 86 mg 85 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.55 s 1H 7.30 m 2H 7.01 d J 10 Hz 1H 6.94 d J 8 Hz 5.38 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.84 4.76 m 2H 4.25 4.15 m 2H 3.81 m 1H 3.73 m 1H 3.51 m 2H 3.42 m 2H 3.02 2.90 m 4H 1.48 d J 6.8 Hz 1.42 d J 4 Hz 9H . MS APCI M H 536.

Treatment of tert butyl R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate with HCl 4M in dioxane 2 mL in DCM 5 mL for 6 hours gave R 2 amino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride after removal of the solvent. MS APCI M H 436.

Methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl acrylate 500 mg 2.54 mmol was diluted in THF 6.0 mL and treated with pyrrolidine 233 uL 2.80 mmol at 0 C. After 1 hour the crude LCMS indicated that the reaction was complete LCMS APCI M H 268.1 Rf 2.13 min . The solution was treated with water 2.0 mL and LiOH HO 320 mg 7.63 mmol respectively and the reaction was allowed to stir overnight to completion by LCMS analysis. The mixture was partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The aqueous was washed again with ethyl acetate and the organics were discarded. The aqueous was treated with excess 3N HCl solution 3.82 mL and washed with ethyl acetate. The separated aqueous was concentrated in vacuo to afford 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 pyrrolidin 1 yl propanoic acid HCl 3LiCl salt as a white solid 1.15 g . MS APCI M H 254.1 Rf 1.30 min.

To a solution of S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 1 g 3.23 mmol and 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 pyrrolidin 1 yl propanoic acid 2 g 7.88 mmol in DCM 40 mL were added HBTU 1.5 g 3.96 mmol and triethylamine 2.75 mL 19.8 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 mL and washed with brine 5 100 mL and water 3 100 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate DCM MeOH 20 1 to give 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 pyrrolidin 1 yl propan 1 one 0.713 g 46.7 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.47 s 1H 7.38 7.28 m 4H 4.75 m 1H 4.54 m 1H 4.17 m 2H 3.88 3.25 m 14H 2.12 m 4H 1.43 m 3H . MS APCI M H 473.

Treatment of 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 pyrrolidin 1 yl propan 1 one with HCl 4M in dioxane 5 mL in DCM 20 mL gave 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 pyrrolidin 1 yl propan 1 one as the HCl salt. MS APCI M H 473.

To a solution of S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 0.5 g 1.62 mmol and 3 tert butoxycarbonyl isopropyl amino 2 4 chlorophenyl propanoic acid 0.7 g 2.05 mmol in DCM 40 mL were added HBTU 1.0 g 2.64 mmol and triethylamine 1.38 mL 9.88 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 mL and washed with brine 5 100 mL and water 3 100 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with Hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 0 1 to give tert butyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate 0.63 g 70 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.50 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 7.31 7.23 m 4H 4.76 m 1H 4.18 m 3H 4.92 3.25 m 10H 1.48 m 12H 0.99 m 3H 0.69 m 3H . MS APCI M H 561.

Treatment of tert butyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate with HCl 4M in dioxane 6 mL in DCM 20 mL for 6 hours gave the 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 isopropylamino 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride. MS APCI M H 461.

1 8 Diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene 33.68 ml 225.2 mmol was added to a solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl acrylate 36.9 g 187.7 mmol and 2 nitropropane 20.23 ml 225.2 mmol in CHCN 500 mL at 0 C. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight. The solution was concentrated in vacuo and subjected to column chromatography 20 EtOAc hexane to give methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 4 methyl 4 nitropentanoate 52.9 g 98.66 yield as a colorless oil. Concentrated HCl 10 ml was added dropwise over 2 minutes to a suspension of the methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 4 methyl 4 nitropentanoate 10 g 35.0 mmol and zinc 6.41 ml 700 mmol in EtOH 250 mL at 40 C. The suspension was stirred at 40 C. overnight. LCMS shows desired product and reduced but non cyclized product. The temperature was increased to 50 C. for 8 hours. There was no change by LCMS so the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 200 ml and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo taken up into EtOAc EtOH 500 ml 9 1 washed with bicarbonate solution dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The crude product contained 2 3 compounds however the 3 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethylpyrrolidin 2 one 6.7 g 85.6 yield was the major one. Used as is in the next step. LCMS APCI M Boc H 224.1 Rt 2.90 min.

Lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide 36 ml 36 mmol was added to a stirred solution of 3 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethylpyrrolidin 2 one 6.7 g 30 mmol in THF 200 ml at 78 C. under nitrogen. The solution was stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes. Then a solution of di tert butyl dicarbonate 7.6 ml 33 mmol in THF 30 ml was added in a single portion. The solution was warmed to room temperature and allowed to stir overnight. The reaction was poured into 0.5M HCl solution and extracted with ethyl acetate twice. The combined organic portions were washed with water separated dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the near pure product excess Boc2O as a colorless oil. Col 20 EtOAc hexane to give pure tert butyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 dimethyl 5 oxopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate. LCMS APCI M Boc H 224.1 Rt 3.68 min.

Lithium hydroxide hydrate 6.44 ml 232 mmol was added to a stirred solution of tert butyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 2 dimethyl 5 oxopyrrolidine 1 carboxylate 7.5 g 23.2 mmol in THF MeOH HO 30 mL 30 mL 30 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred overnight and then concentrated in vacuo. The reaction mixture was taken up into water 200 mL washed with EtOAc 100 mL acidified with concentrated HCl and extracted into EtOAc 2 200 mL . The product was dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residual HCl was removed by evaporating from toluene to give 4 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 4 chlorophenyl 4 methylpentanoic acid 5.0 g 63.2 yield as a white solid. LCMS APCI M Boc H 242.0 Rt 2.8 min.

To a solution of S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 0.22 g 0.71 mmol and 4 tert butoxycarbonyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 4 methylpentanoic acid 0.24 g 0.71 mmol in DCM 20 mL were added HBTU 0.40 g 1.10 mmol and triethylamine 1 mL 7.1 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 mL and washed with brine 5 100 mL and water 3 100 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with Hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 0 1 to give tert butyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 methyl 5 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 5 oxopentan 2 ylcarbamate 0.23 g 58 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.51 d J 5.6 Hz 1H 7.29 7.20 m 4H 4.75 m 1H 4.67 s 1H 4.24 4.09 m 2H 4.02 m 1H 3.80 3.30 m 7H 2.68 m 1H 1.97 m 1H 1.48 d J 6.4 Hz 3H 1.42 s 9H 1.29 1.21 m 6H . MS APCI M H 561.

Treatment of tert butyl 4 4 chlorophenyl 2 methyl 5 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 5 oxopentan 2 ylcarbamate with HCl 4M in dioxane 4 mL in DCM 10 mL for 6 hours gave 4 amino 2 4 chlorophenyl 4 methyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl pentan 1 one dihydrochloride. MS APCI M H 461.

To a solution of 4 chloro 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 5 g 27 mmol and 2 S methyl 4 Boc piperazine 5.4 g 27 mmol in NMP 20 mL was added DIEA 5 mL 29 mmol . The mixture was heated to 120 C. for 24 hours. After cooling the mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 500 mL and washed with water 6 200 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated to afford 3S tert butyl 3 methyl 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate 6 g 64 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.55 s 1H 4.81 m 1H 4.45 m 1H . 4.18 m 3H 3.90 m 1H 3.75 m 1H 3.44 3.29 m 2H 2.96 m 1H 1.52 m 12H 1.14 d J 6.4 Hz 3H . MS APCI M H 351. The residue was purified by chiral HPLC separation OD 250 20 mm acetonitrile 2 mL min . The first peak RT 3.93 min was S tert butyl 3 methyl 4 R 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate and the secondary RT 4.26 min was S tert butyl 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate.

To a solution of S tert butyl 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate 2 g 5.71 mmol in DCM 20 mL was added HCl 4M in dioxane 6 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed to afford S 5 methyl 4 S 2 methylpiperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 2.0 g 99 . MS APCI M H 251.

To a solution of S 5 methyl 4 S 2 methylpiperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 0.5 g 1.5 mmol and R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chlorophenyl propanoic acid 0.46 g 1.5 mmol in DCM 30 mL and triethylamine 5 mL was added HBTU 0.59 g 1.5 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 mL and washed with water 6 100 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with DCM MeOH 20 1 to afford tert butyl R 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 0.48 g 70 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.52 s 1H 7.28 7.09 m 4H 5.43 5.18 m 1H 4.86 4.71 m 2H 4.41 4.33 m 1H 4.26 4.10 m 2H 3.95 3.74 m 1H 3.25 2.65 m 2H 1.46 m 12H 1.25 m 3H . MS APCI M H 532.

tert Butyl R 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate was treated with HCl 4M in dioxane 4 mL in DCM to afford R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride. MS APCI M H 432.

To a solution of S 5 methyl 4 S 2 methylpiperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 0.5 g 1.5 mmol and R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl propanoic acid 0.49 g 1.5 mmol in DCM 30 mL and triethylamine 5 mL was added HBTU 0.59 g 1.5 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 200 mL and washed with water 6 100 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with DCM MeOH 20 1 to afford tert butyl R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 0.5 g 70 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.53 s 1H 7.32 7.27 m 2H 6.98 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 6.90 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5.44 5.20 m 1H 4.75 4.70 m 2H 4.40 3.80 m 6H 3.40 2.82 m 2H 1.50 1.00 m 15H . MS APCI M H 550.

tert Butyl R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate was treated with HCl 4M in dioxane 4 mL in DCM to afford R 2 amino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride. MS APCI M H 450.

To a solution of S 5 methyl 4 S 2 methylpiperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 30 mg 0.093 mmol and R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 fluorophenyl propanoic acid 26 mg 0.093 mmol in DCM 6 mL and triethylamine 1 mL was added HBTU 35 mg 0.093 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with Hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 to afford tert butyl R 3 4 fluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 26 mg 52 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.51 s 1H 7.30 6.90 m 5H 5.37 5.13 m 1H 4.90 4.60 m 2H 4.40 4.02 m 4H 4.00 3.70 m 2H 3.40 2.60 m 2H 1.45 1.00 m 15H . MS APCI M H 515.

tert Butyl R 3 4 fluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate was treated with HCl 4M in dioxane 2 mL in DCM 5 mL afford R 2 amino 3 4 fluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride 20 mg 52 . MS APCI M H 415.

To a solution of S 5 methyl 4 S 2 methylpiperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 30 mg 0.093 mmol and R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 3 4 difluorophenyl propanoic acid 28 mg 0.093 mmol in DCM 6 mL and triethylamine 1 mL was added HBTU 35 mg 0.093 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with Hexane ethyl acetate 2 1 to afford tert butyl R 3 3 4 difluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 24 mg 45 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.53 s 1H 7.08 6.82 m 3H 5.40 5.00 m 1H 4.90 4.64 m 2H 4.42 3.65 m 6H 3.44 2.65 m 4H 1.60 0.80 m 15H . MS APCI M H 534.

tert Butyl R 3 3 4 difluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate was treated with HCl 4M in dioxane 2 mL in DCM 5 mL to afford R 2 amino 3 3 4 difluorophenyl 1 S 3 methyl 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride 18 mg 45 . MS APCI M H 434.

To a solution of methyl thioglycolate 10 mL 106 mmol and methyl 2 pentenoate 12 g 106 mmol in THF 200 mL at 0 C. was added NaH 60 4.2 g 106 mmol portionwise. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours and then quenched with saturated NHCl 50 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with ether 3 100 mL and the combined organic phases were dried and concentrated to afford a mixture of methyl 2 ethyl 4 oxo tetrahydrothiophene 3 carboxylate and methyl 5 ethyl 3 oxo tetrahydrothiophene 2 carboxylate 20 g 50 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 4.20 m 1H 3.75 m 2H 3.45 3.20 m 1H 3.20 2.80 m 1H 2.62 2.22 m 1H 1.90 1.60 m 2H 1.05 0.80 m 6H .

To a solution of formamidine HCl salt 10 g 124 mmol in ethanol 100 mL was added NaOEt 21 46 mL slowly. After addition was complete the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes and then filtered. The filtrate was added to the mixture of methyl 2 ethyl 4 oxo tetrahydrothiophene 3 carboxylate and methyl 5 ethyl 3 oxo tetrahydrothiophene 2 carboxylate 20 g 106 mmol in ethanol 100 mL . The mixture was refluxed overnight. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with ethyl acetate DCM MeOH 20 1 to give a mixture of 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ol and 6 ethyl 6 7 dihydrothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 ol 4.5 g 46 . MS APCI M H 183.

To a solution of a mixture of 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ol and 6 ethyl 6 7 dihydrothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 ol 2.32 g 12.8 mmol in 1 2 dichloroethane 50 mL and diisopropylethylamine 4 mL was added POCl 4 mL and the mixture was refluxed overnight. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with Hexane ethyl acetate 9 1 4 1 to give 4 chloro 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 0.49 g 28 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.73 s 1H 4.44 m 1H 4.32 4.00 m 2H 2.08 m 1H 1.75 m 1H 0.93 m 3H .

To a solution of 4 chloro 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 0.3 g 1.5 mmol in n BuOH 30 mL was added 1 Boc piperazine 0.8 g 4.3 mmol and the mixture was refluxed for 30 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with Hexane ethyl acetate 4 1 1 1 to give tert butyl 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate 0.23 g 44 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.54 s 1H 4.61 d J 8.8 Hz 1H 4.10 m 2H 3.80 3.60 m 8H 2.02 m 1H 1.60 m 1H 1.49 s 9H 0.95 m 3H . MS APCI M H 351.

Treatment of tert butyl 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate with HCl 4M in dioxane 3 mL in DCM 10 mL gave 5 ethyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 0.21 g 99 . MS APCI M H 251.

To a solution of 5 ethyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 50 mg 0.15 mmol and R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chlorophenyl propanoic acid 46 mg 0.15 mmol in DCM 10 mL and triethylamine 1 mL was added HBTU 59 mg 0.15 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with DCM ethyl acetate 1 1 to give tert butyl R 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 50 mg 60 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.53 s 1H 7.26 7.14 m 4H 5.36 m 1H 4.82 m 1H 4.62 m 1H 4.14 m 1H 3.80 2.90 m 8H 1.94 m 1H . 1.68 m 1H 1.54 m 1H 1.42 s 9H 0.94 m 3H . MS APCI M H 533.

Treatment of tert butyl R 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate with HCl 4M in dioxane 2 mL in DCM 3 mL gave the 2R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride. MS APCI M H 433.

To a solution of 5 ethyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 50 mg 0.15 mmol and R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl propanoic acid 49 mg 0.15 mmol in DCM 10 mL and triethylamine 1 mL was added HBTU 59 mg 0.15 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with DCM ethyl acetate 1 1 to give tert butyl R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 80 mg 90 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.54 s 1H 7.40 6.90 m 3H 5.36 m 1H 4.82 m 1H 4.65 m 1H 4.12 m 1H 3.90 3.18 m 8H 3.04 2.89 m 2H . 1.95 m 1H 1.57 m 1H 1.42 s 9H 0.94 m 3H . MS APCI M H 551.

Treatment of tert butyl R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate with HCl 4M in dioxane 2 mL in DCM 3 mL gave 2R 2 amino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride. MS APCI M H 451.

To a solution of formamidine HCl salt 3.70 g 46.0 mmol in ethanol 200 mL was added NaOEt in ethanol 21 wt 17.2 mL 46.0 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The ethyl 4 oxotetrahydrothiophene 3 carboxylate 8.0 g 46.0 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours and then refluxed overnight. After cooling the solvent was removed and the residue was washed with a small amount of water and CHClto afford 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ol as light brown solid 2.5 g 35 . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 12.59 s 1H 8.13 s 1H 4.12 s 2H 3.96 s 2H . MS APCI M H 155.

To a solution of the 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 ol 0.50 g 3.2 mmol in DCE 50 mL was added DIEA 0.42 g 3.2 mmol and POCl 1.5 g 9.8 mmol . The mix was refluxed overnight. After cooling the solvent was removed and the residue was subject to silica gel chromatography eluting with hexane ethyl acetate 4 1 to give 4 chloro 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 0.45 g 80 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.84 s 1H 4.37 s 2H 4.27 s 2H .

The mixture of 4 chloro 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 2.0 g 11.6 mmol and 1 Boc piperazine 5.0 g 26.8 mmol in isopropanol 50 mL was refluxed for 12 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was subject to silica gel chromatography eluting with hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 to give tert butyl 4 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate 3.3 g 89 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.49 s 1H 4.68 m 1H 4.25 s 2H 4.16 s 2H 1.49 s 9H . MS APCI M H 323.

To a solution of tert butyl 4 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate 0.41 g 1.3 mmol in CHCl 20 mL was added HCl 4M in dioxane 5 mL . The mix was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The solvent was removed to afford 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine as HCl salt 0.28 g 99 . MS APCI M H 223.

To a solution of 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine 0.28 g 1.3 mmol in CHCl 20 mL was added triethylamine 5 mL and R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chlorophenyl propanoic acid 0.38 g 1.3 mmol . After stirring for 30 minutes HBTU 0.57 g 1.5 mmol was added. The mix was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was subject to silica gel chromatography eluting with hexane ethyl acetate 1 1 to give R tert butyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 0.62 g 98 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.49 s 1H 5.38 5.35 m 1H 3.70 3.50 m 6H 3.27 3.13 m 2H 2.98 2.92 m 2H 1.42 s 9H . MS APCI M H 505.

To a solution of R tert butyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 30 mg 0.06 mmol in CHCl 10 mL was added HCl 4M in dioxane 2 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The solvent was removed to afford R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride 30 mg 99 . MS APCI M H 405.

To a solution of R tert butyl 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate prepared according to Example 1 Steps 1 5 1.05 g 3.12 mmol in CHCl 20 mL was added HCl 4M in dioxane 4 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed to afford R 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine as HCl salt 0.74 g 99 . MS APCI M H 237.

To a solution of R 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 30 mg 0.097 mmol and R 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl propanoic acid 31 mg 0.097 mmol in CHCl 5 mL and triethylamine 1 mL was added HBTU 37 mg 0.097 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 100 mL and washed with water 5 50 mL . The organic phase was dried and concentrated. The residue was subject to silica gel chromatography eluting with CHCl MeOH 50 1 to give tert butyl R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 R 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 44 mg 85 . MS APCI M H 536.

Treatment of the tert butyl R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 R 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate with HCl 4M in dioxane 2 mL in CHCl 5 mL for 6 hours gave the R 2 amino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 R 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride after removal of the solvent. MS APCI M H 436.

Step 1 Methyl 2 4 fluorophenyl acetate 5.0 g 29.73 mmol NaOMe 0.08031 g 1.487 mmol and paraformaldehyde 0.9374 g 31.22 mmol were dissolved suspended in 200 mL of DMSO and allowed to stir overnight at ambient temperature. The reaction was quenched with the addition of 1000 mL of ice cold water. The reaction was neutralized with the addition of HCl solution and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with water twice once with brine separated dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the crude product as a yellow oil. Column chromatography on silica gel eluting with 25 75 hexanes ethyl acetate afforded methyl 2 4 fluorophenyl 3 hydroxypropanoate 3.0 g 50.91 yield as a colorless oil.

Step 2 Methanesulfonyl chloride 1.230 mL 15.89 mmol and TEA 4.642 mL 33.30 mmol was added to a stirred solution of methyl 2 4 fluorophenyl 3 hydroxypropanoate 3 g 15.14 mmol in THF 150 mL at 0 C. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 2 days. The resulting suspension was diluted with EtO 200 mL filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give a colorless oil containing the intermediate compound methyl 2 4 fluorophenyl acrylate. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.39 dd J 8.4 and 5.4 Hz 2H 7.04 app. t J 8.6 Hz 2H 6.36 s 1H 5.87 s 1H 3.83 s 1H. The methyl 2 4 fluorophenyl acrylate was taken up into THF 150 mL and treated with isopropylamine 6.446 mL 75.68 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours diluted with EtOAc 200 mL washed with saturated aqueous bicarbonate 100 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo to give pure methyl 2 4 fluorophenyl 3 isopropylamino propanoate 3.6 g 99.39 yield . LCMS APCI M H 240.

Step 3 The crude methyl 2 4 fluorophenyl 3 isopropylamino propanoate 3.6 g 15.04 mmol was dissolved in 100 mL of DCM and treated with BocO 4.148 mL 18.05 mmol at room temperature. The solution bubbled vigorously for 5 minutes and was allowed to stir overnight to completion by TLC analysis. The solution was concentrated in vacuo to an oil then re dissolved in 50 mL of THF. The solution was treated with water 20 mL and LiOH HO 3.157 g 75.22 mmol to afford an opaque solution. The mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo diluted with water 100 mL and washed with diethyl ether 2 100 mL . The aqueous was treated with 1M HCl solution until pH 2 3 then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The organic layers were combined dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give 3 tert butoxycarbonyl 2 4 fluorophenyl propanoic acid 4.8 g 98.06 yield. LCMS APCI M Boc H 226.

Step 4 DIPEA 0.089 mL 0.51 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 40 mg 0.13 mmol 3 tert butoxycarbonyl isopropyl amino 2 4 fluorophenyl propanoic acid 50 mg 0.15 mmol and O 1H Benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 58 mg 0.15 mmol in DCM 10 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours diluted with EtOAc washed with saturated aqueous bicarbonate and then 1N HCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 75 EtOAc hexanes to give tert butyl 2 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate 50 mg 72 yield as a mixture of 2 diastereomers. LCMS APCI M Boc H 444.

Step 5 HCl 4N in dioxane was added to a solution of tert butyl 2 4 fluorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate 50 mg 0.092 mmol in EtO 4 mL and DCM 0.5 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was taken up into DCM 1 mL and precipitated with EtO 15 mL and the solids were filtered under nitrogen to give 2 4 fluorophenyl 3 isopropylamino 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride 30 mg 63 yield as a mixture of 2 diastereomers. LCMS APCI M H 444.

Step 1 3 tert Butoxycarbonyl isopropyl amino 2 3 4 difluorophenyl propanoic acid was prepared according to the procedures of Example 13 steps 1 3 starting from methyl 2 4 fluorophenyl acetate. LCMS APCI M Boc H 244.

Step 2 DIPEA 0.14 mL 0.81 mmol was added to a stirred suspension of S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 50 mg 0.16 mmol 3 tert butoxycarbonyl isopropyl amino 2 3 4 difluorophenyl propanoic acid 111 mg 0.32 mmol and O 1H Benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 74 mg 0.19 mmol in DCM 10 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours diluted with EtOAc washed with saturated aqueous bicarbonate and then 1N HCl. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography 75 EtOAc hexanes to give tert butyl difluorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate 50 mg 55 yield as a mixture of 2 diastereomers. LCMS APCI M H 562.

Step 3 HCl 4N in dioxane 5 mL was added to a solution of tert butyl difluorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate 50 mg 0.089 mmol in EtO 4 mL and DCM 1 mL at room temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was taken up into DCM 1 mL precipitated with EtO and filtered under nitrogen to give 2 3 4 difluorophenyl 3 isopropylamino 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride 38 mg 80 yield as a mixture of 2 diastereomers. LCMS APCI M H 462.

Step 1 tert Butyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate prepared according to Example 3 Step 1 was separated on a Chiralcel OD column Chiral Technologies West Chester Pa. using 10 EtOH hexane as the mobile phase. The first peak to elute was tert butyl R 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate the second tert butyl S 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate.

Step 2 To a solution of tert butyl S 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate 93 mg 0.17 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added HCl 4M 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours and then the solvent was removed to afford S 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 isopropylamino 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride 76 mg 100 . LCMS APCI M H 460 and 462.

Step 3 To a solution of tert butyl R 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl isopropyl carbamate 11 mg 0.020 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added HCl 4M 2 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The solvent was removed to afford S 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 isopropylamino 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride 9 mg 100 . LCMS APCI M H 460 and 462.

LHMDS 1.0 M solution in THF 13.1 mL 13.1 mmol was added dropwise at 78 C. under nitrogen to a stirred solution of methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetate 2.20 g 11.9 mmol in THF 40 mL . The resulting solution was stirred at 78 C. for 1 hour. A solution of 2 bromoacetonitrile 2.50 g 20.9 mmol in THF 16 mL was added dropwise. The reaction was stirred at 78 C. for 1 hour. The reaction was then warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight. The reaction was then quenched with 1N HCl. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography hexanes EtOAc 4 1 to give methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyanopropanoate 2.60 g 98 as a white solid. A solution of EtMgBr in THF 1.0 M 8.0 mL 8.0 mmol was added dropwise at room temperature to a stirred solution of this methyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 cyanopropanoate 0.894 g 4.00 mmol and Ti i PrO 1.30 mL 4.40 mmol in EtO 20 mL . After the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour water 4 mL was added followed by DCM 100 mL . The resulting precipitate was filtered and washed with DCM. The combined filtrates were dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography hexanes EtOAc 1 1 to give 6 4 chlorophenyl 4 azaspiro 2.4 heptan 5 one 0.330 g 37 as a white solid. LCMS APCI M Boc H 222.2 Rf 2.44 min.

LHMDS 1.0 M solution in THF 2.21 mL 2.21 mmol was added dropwise at 78 C. under nitrogen to a stirred solution of the 6 4 chlorophenyl 4 azaspiro 2.4 heptan 5 one 0.409 g 1.84 mmol in THF 20 mL . The resulting solution was stirred at 78 C. for 30 minutes. A solution of Boc2O 0.443 g 2.03 mmol in THF 5 mL was added all at once. The reaction was warmed to room temperature and stirred for 2 hours. The reaction was then quenched with 1N HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography hexanes EtOAc 4 1 to give tert butyl 6 4 chlorophenyl 5 oxo 4 azaspiro 2.4 heptane 4 carboxylate 0.470 g 79 .

A solution of LiOH hydrate 0.24 g 5.7 mmol in water 2 mL was added to a stirred solution of tert butyl 6 4 chlorophenyl 5 oxo 4 azaspiro 2.4 heptane 4 carboxylate 0.46 g 1.4 mmol in MeOH 2 mL and THF 2 mL . The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvents were evaporated in vacuo. The residue was taken up in water and extracted with ether 2 . The aqueous phase was acidified by 2N HCl and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic phases were washed with brine dried and concentrated to give 3 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino cyclopropyl 2 4 chlorophenyl propanoic acid 0.41 g 84 as a white solid. LCMS APCI M Boc H 240.0 Rf 2.38 min.

HBTU 0.031 g 0.081 mmol was added to a solution of 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 0.025 g 0.081 mmol and 3 1 tert butoxycarbonyl cyclopropyl 2 4 chlorophenyl propanoic acid 0.027 g 0.081 mmol in DCM 5 mL and TEA 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was subject to column chromatography eluted by DCM MeOH 50 1 to give 3 1 aminocyclopropyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one 30 mg 81 . LCMS APCI M H 558.1 Rf 3.35 min.

HCl in dioxane 4M 1 mL was added to a solution of tert butyl 1 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 oxopropyl cyclopropylcarbamate 10 mg 0.018 mmol in DCM 3 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The solvent was removed to afford 3 1 aminocyclopropyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one as the di HCl salt 8.2 mg 100 .

A solution of ethyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 2 cyanoacrylate 6.2 g 26 mmol in 2 propanol 80 mL was added dropwise to a stirred suspension of NaBH 2.8 g 74 mmol in 2 propanol 20 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Excess NaBHwas destroyed with saturated NHCl and most of the 2 propanol was removed in vacuo. The residue was partitioned between EtOAc and water. The aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried and concentrated. The crude 2 4 chlorobenzyl 3 hydroxypropanenitrile was used without purification. TBS Cl 2.77 g 18.4 mmol in dry DMF 15 mL was added to a solution of the crude 2 4 chlorobenzyl 3 hydroxypropanenitrile 3.00 g 15.3 mmol and imidazole 4.18 g 61.3 mmol in DMF 25 mL at 0 C. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between ether and water. The organic layer was washed with brine dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column hexanes EtOAc 30 1 to give 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 4 chlorobenzyl propanenitrile 3.70 g 78 as a colorless oil.

A solution of EtMgBr in THF 3.0M 8.0 mL 24 mmol was added dropwise at room temperature to a stirred solution of 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 4 chlorobenzyl propanenitrile 3.7 g 12 mmol and Ti i PrO 3.9 mL 13 mmol in EtO 50 mL . After the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour BFOEt 3.0 mL 24 mmol was added at once. The mixture was stirred for an additional 1 hour. A solution of 10 NaOH 10 mL was added followed by DCM 300 mL . The resulting precipitate was filtered and washed with DCM. The combined filtrates were dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography 30 1 DCM MeOH to give 1 1 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 4 chlorophenyl propan 2 yl cyclopropanamine 2.6 g 64 as a colorless oil. LCMS 340.2 M H APCI Rf 3.17 min.

1 1 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 4 chlorophenyl propan 2 yl cyclopropanamine 2.6 g 7.6 mmol was dissovled in THF 60 mL . Boc2O 2.0 g 9.2 mmol DMAP 93 mg 0.76 mmol and triethylamine 1.6 mL 12 mmol were added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated and the residue partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic phase was separated and washed with brine dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography hexanes EtOAc 6 1 to give tert butyl 1 1 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 4 chlorophenyl propan 2 yl cyclopropylcarbamate 2.0 g 59 .

TBAF 2.80 g 8.86 mmol was added to a stirred solution of tert butyl 1 1 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 3 4 chlorophenyl propan 2 yl cyclopropylcarbamate 1.95 g 4.43 mmol in THF 80 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Saturated NHCl solution was added to the reaction. The mixture was extracted with ether. The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column hexane EtOAc 20 1 to 4 1 to give tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 hydroxypropan 2 yl cyclopropylcarbamate 1.25 g 87 as a white solid. LCMS 325.9 M H APCI Rf 3.75 min.

Triethylamine 2.14 mL 15.4 mmol was added to a stirred solution of tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 hydroxypropan 2 yl cyclopropylcarbamate 1.00 g 3.07 mmol in DCM 15 mL at 15 C. A solution of pyridine sulfur trioxide complex 2.44 g 15.4 mmol in DMSO 15 mL was added to the above solution in one portion. The mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 10 minutes and then warmed to 0 C. After stirring at 0 C. for 1 hour the mixture was poured into cold brine solution and extracted with ether. The combined organic extracts were washed with 10 citric acid and brine dried and concentrated. The crude tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 oxopropan 2 yl cyclopropylcarbamate was used in the next step without purification. LCMS 323.7 M H APCI Rf 3.77 min.

tert Butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 3 oxopropan 2 yl cyclopropylcarbamate 3.06 mmol 2 methyl 2 butene 7.6 mL 2.0M THF solution 15.3 mmol and KHPO 0.416 g 3.06 mmol were dissolved in t BuOH 100 mL water 30 mL . Sodium chlorite 0.830 g 9.17 mmol was added portionwise at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours and then acidified with 10 citric acid. The reaction was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried and concentrated to give 2 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino cyclopropyl 3 4 chlorophenyl propanoic acid as a white solid. LCMS 339.9 M H APCI .

HBTU 0.031 g 0.081 mmol was added to a solution of the 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 0.025 g 0.081 mmol and amino acid 0.027 g 0.081 mmol in DCM 5 mL and TEA 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was subject to column chromatography eluted by DCM MeOH 50 1 . The resulting product in DCM 5 mL was treated with HCl 4M 2 mL for 6 hours. The solvent was removed to afford 2 1 aminocyclopropyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one as the di HCl salt.

60 NaH 2.31 g 57.7 mmol was added in 2 portions to a 0 C. solution of 2 3 chlorophenyl acetonitrile 3.50 g 23.1 mmol and 15 crown 5 0.509 g 2.31 mmol in DMF 80 mL . The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature while stirring for 35 minutes and then cooled back to 0 C. NaI 3.46 g 23.1 mmol was added followed by the addition of a solution of freshly prepared tert butyl bis 2 chloroethyl carbamate 5.59 g 23.1 mmol in DMF 10 mL by syringe. The reaction mixture warmed back to room temperature and stirred overnight 16 hours . The reaction mixture was poured into iced saturated NHCl and extracted with EtOAc. The extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude was flashed on silica Biotage 40L 9 1 hex EA until prod then gradient to 4 1 hexane EtOAc to give tert butyl 4 3 chlorophenyl 4 cyanopiperidine 1 carboxylate 5.91 g 79.8 yield as a yellow foam. LC MS APCI m z 221 M Boc H .

tert Butyl 4 3 chlorophenyl 4 cyanopiperidine 1 carboxylate 5.91 g 18.42 mmol was dissolved in concentrated HCl 153.5 ml 1842 mmol . The reaction mixture stirred at reflux over a weekend. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and washed with ether. The aqueous portion was concentrated on a rotary evaporator and the solids were dried on a high vacuum line. The solids were dissolved in HO 35 mL 10 NaOH 29.47 g 73.69 mmol and dioxane 30 mL . Solid Boc2O 4.222 g 19.34 mmol was added and reaction mixture stirred at room temperature overnight 14 hours . The reaction mixture was diluted with HO and washed with ether. The aqueous portion was acidified with solid KHSO then extracted with DCM. The combined extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated to give 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 3 chlorophenyl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid 4.73 g 75.56 yield as a white powder. HPLC 98 . LC MS APCI m z 338 M H .

HBTU 0.07726 g 0.2037 mmol was added to a solution of R 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 0.030 g 0.09701 mmol 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 3 chlorophenyl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid 0.06593 g 0.1940 mmol and DIEA 0.06759 ml 0.3880 mmol in DCM 2.5 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred overnight 18 hours after which saturated NaHCOwas added. The mixture was extracted with DCM and the extracts were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude was flashed on Biotage 12M DCM flushed to remove DIEA then 2 1 to 1 1 DCM EA top spot by prod eluted quickly then 2nd spot prod to give R tert butyl 4 3 chlorophenyl 4 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazine 1 carbonyl piperidine 1 carboxylate. This was dissolved in dioxane 2 mL and 4M HCl dioxane 0.7275 ml 2.910 mmol was added causing slow precipitation. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight 18 hours after which it was concentrated to dryness. The solids were dissolved in minimal MeOH and then the product was triturated by the addition of ether. The resulting solids were isolated by filtration thru medium frit funnel with nitrogen pressure rinsed with ether and dried in vacuo to give R 4 3 chlorophenyl piperidin 4 yl 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl methanone dihydrochloride 0.029 g 56.31 yield as a pale yellow powder.

TBS Cl 2.29 g 15.2 mmol in dry DMF 12 mL was added to a solution of 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 hydroxypropanenitrile 2.30 g 12.7 mmol and imidazole 3.45 g 50.7 mmol in DMF 20 mL at 0 C. under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was partitioned between ether and water. The organic layer was washed with brine dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column hexanes EtOAc 30 1 to give 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 4 chlorophenyl propanenitrile 3.40 g 91 as a colorless oil. A solution of EtMgBr in THF 3.0 M 7.0 mL 21 mmol was added dropwise at room temperature to a stirred solution of this 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 4 chlorophenyl propanenitrile 3.1 g 10 mmol and Ti i PrO 4 3.4 mL 11 mmol in EtO 60 mL . After the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour BFOEt 2.7 mL 21 mmol was added at once. The mixture was stirred for an additional 1 hour. A solution of 10 NaOH 10 mL was added followed by DCM 300 mL . The resulting precipitate was filtered and washed with DCM. The combined filtrates were dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography 30 1 DCM MeOH to give 1 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl cyclopropanamine 2.3 g 67 as a colorless oil. LCMS 326.1 M H APCI Rf 3.04 min.

Boc2O 1.8 g 8.5 mmol triethylamine 1.5 mL 11 mmol and DMAP 86 mg 0.71 mmol were added to a stirred solution of 1 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl cyclopropanamine 2.3 g 7.1 mmol in THF 50 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated and the residue partitioned between EtOAc and water. The organic phase was separated and washed with brine dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography hexanes EtOAc 6 1 to give tert butyl 1 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl cyclopropylcarbamate 2.1 g 70 . LCMS 326.5 M Boc H APCI Rf 3.07 min.

TBAF 2.8 g 8.9 mmol was added to a stirred solution of tert butyl 1 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 1 4 chlorophenyl ethyl cyclopropylcarbamate 1.9 g 4.5 mmol in THF 80 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. Saturated NHCl solution was added to the reaction. The mixture was extracted with ether. The combined organic layer was washed with brine dried and concentrated. The residue was purified by column hexane EtOAc 20 1 to 4 1 to give tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl cyclopropylcarbamate 1.1 g 79 as a white solid. LCMS 311.8 M H APCI Rf 3.47 min.

Triethylamine 0.45 mL 3.2 mmol was added to a stirred solution of tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 hydroxyethyl cyclopropylcarbamate 0.200 g 0.641 mmol in DCM 3 mL at 15 C. A solution of pyridine sulfur trioxide complex 0.510 g 3.21 mmol in DMSO 3 mL was added to the above solution in one portion. The mixture was stirred at the same temperature for 10 minutes and then warmed to 0 C. After stirring at 0 C. for 1 hour the mixture was poured into cold brine solution and extracted with ether. The combined organic extracts were washed with 10 citric acid and brine dried and concentrated. The crude tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 oxoethyl cyclopropylcarbamate was used in the next step without purification. LCMS 309.8 M H APCI Rf 3.62 min.

tert Butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 oxoethyl cyclopropylcarbamate 0.64 mmol 2 methyl 2 butene 1.6 mL 2.0 M THF solution 3.2 mmol and KHPO 0.087 g 0.64 mmol were dissolved in t BuOH 20 mL water 6 mL . Sodium chlorite 0.174 g 1.93 mmol was added portionwise at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours and then acidified with 10 citric acid. The reaction was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried and concentrated to give 2 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino cyclopropyl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetic acid 0.19 g 91 as a colorless syrup which was used for amide coupling without further purification. LCMS 325.8 M H APCI Rf 3.31 min.

HBTU 0.097 mmol 47 mg was added to a solution of S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 30 mg 0.097 mmol and 2 1 tert butoxycarbonylamino cyclopropyl 2 4 chlorophenyl acetic acid 0.097 mmol in DCM 5 mL and TEA 5 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was subject to column chromatography eluted by DCM MeOH 50 1 to give tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 2 oxoethyl cyclopropylcarbamate LCMS 544.0 M Boc H APCI Rf 3.49 min. The tert butyl 1 1 4 chlorophenyl 2 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 2 oxoethyl cyclopropylcarbamate was deprotected using procedures described previously to give 2 1 aminocyclopropyl 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl ethanone. Rf 2.24 min.

 R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 R 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one

 R 2 amino 3 4 fluorophenyl 1 4 R 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one

m CPBA 0.10 g 0.60 mmol was added to a solution of R tert butyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 200 mg 0.40 mmol in CHCl 20 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The mixture was washed with saturated NaHCOsolution and the solvent was removed to afford a mixture of the sulphoxide and the sulphone which were separated by column chromatography 20 1 CHCl methanol to give R tert butyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 80 mg 38 and R tert butyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 6 oxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 80 mg 39 .

HCl in dioxane 4M 2 mL was added to a solution of 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 58 mg 0.11 mmol in DCM 10 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours and the solvent was removed to afford R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one dihydrochloride 47 mg 100 . LCMS 436.0 M H APCI .

m CPBA 77 67 mg 0.30 mmol was added to a solution of R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one 120 mg 0.30 mmol in DCM 10 mL and MeOH 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was subject to column chromatography eluted by DCM MeOH 4 1 1 1 to afford R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 6 oxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one 21 mg 17 as the free amine. LCMS 420.2 M H APCI .

m CPBA 0.15 g 0.67 mmol 77 wt was added to a solution of tert butyl 2R 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 213 mg 0.41 mmol in CHCl 20 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 3 hours. The solvent was removed to afford a mixture of the sulphoxide and the sulphone which was separated by column chromatography 20 1 CHCl methanol to give 2R tert butyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 100 mg and 2R tert butyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 6 oxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 50 mg .

HCl 4M 1 mL was added to a solution of 2R tert butyl 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 0.10 g 0.18 mmol in DCM 5 mL and MeOH 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The solvent was removed to afford 2R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one as the di hydrochloride salt. LCMS 450.1 M H APCI .

HCl 4M 1 mL was added to a solution of 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 6 oxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 0.050 g 0.091 mmol in DCM 4 mL and MeOH 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. The solvent was removed to afford 2R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 methyl 6 oxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one as the di hydrochloride salt 0.40 g . LCMS 450.1 M H APCI .

 2R 2 amino 3 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one

m CPBA 0.1 g 0.45 mmol was added to a solution of tert butyl 2R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 50 mg 0.09 mmol in DCM 10 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was subject to column chromatography eluted by ethyl acetate to give tert butyl 2R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 5 mg . LCMS 582.0 M H APCI .

HCl in dioxane 4M 2 mL was added to a solution of tert butyl 2R 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 1 oxopropan 2 ylcarbamate 0.005 g 0.009 mmol in DCM 2 mL and MeOH 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 hours. The solvent was removed to afford 2R 2 amino 3 4 chloro 3 fluorophenyl 1 4 5 ethyl 6 6 dioxido 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl propan 1 one as the HCl salt 4 mg 97 . LCMS 482.1 M H APCI .

HBTU 0.03066 g 0.08084 mmol was added to a solution of 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 0.025 g 0.08084 mmol 1 tert butoxycarbonyl 4 4 chlorophenyl piperidine 4 carboxylic acid 0.02747 g 0.08084 mmol and DIEA 0.05632 mL 0.3234 mmol in DMF 2 mL . The reaction mixture was shaken for 4 hours after which it was diluted with ethyl acetate and water. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate and the combined extracts were washed with water saturated NaHCO dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude was flashed on Biotage 12M 4 1 DCM EA flushed to elute DIEA then 1 3 DCM EA eluted prod to give the Boc intermediate. The Boc intermediate was then dissolved in dioxane 1 mL and 4M HCl dioxane 0.6063 mL 2.425 mmol was added causing slow precipitation. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight 16 hours after which it was concentrated to dryness. The solids were dissolved in minimal MeOH and the product was triturated by addition of ether. The solids were collected by filtration thru a medium frit funnel with nitrogen pressure rinsed with ether and dried in vacuo to give 4 4 chlorophenyl piperidin 4 yl 4 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl methanone dihydrochloride 0.030 g 69.90 yield as a pale yellow powder. HPLC 94 pure. LC MS APCI m z 458.

HBTU 37 mg 0.097 mmol was added to a solution of the S 5 methyl 4 piperazin 1 yl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidine dihydrochloride 30 mg 0.097 mmol and 2 4 chlorophenyl 3 2 methylaziridin 1 yl propanoic acid 47 mg 0.097 mmol in DCM 5 mL and TEA 1 mL . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was removed and the residue was subject to column chromatography eluting with EA DCM MeOH 20 1 10 1 . The product was treated with HCl 4M 2 mL afforded 2 4 chlorophenyl 1 4 S 5 methyl 5 7 dihydrothieno 3 4 d pyrimidin 4 yl piperazin 1 yl 3 2 methylaziridin 1 yl propan 1 one as the HCl salt 1 mg 2 . LC MS APCI m z 458.1.

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

The words comprise comprising include including and includes when used in this specification and in the following claims are intended to specify the presence of stated features integers components or steps but they do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers components steps or groups.

