---

title: User segment suggestion for online advertising
abstract: Described is a behavioral targeting technology for online advertising, by which an original attribute is uniformly expanded. Users that meet an original attribute are aggregated into a mid-result used to determine similarity relative to candidate attribute types. The most similar candidate attributes are selected for the expanded attribute. A URL/URL pattern suggestion technology is provided, with similarity computed from users/URLs visited by the users. URLs are separated into URL tree nodes, for calculating the number of users who have visited each URL and the number of users who have visited the URL on a sub-tree whose root is the node. URL/URL patterns are output based on similarity. Domains are also suggested based on user-visits. Similarities between pairs of domains may be computed (e.g., offline), with an output for a given domain provided in based on its similarity with each other domain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07711735&OS=07711735&RS=07711735
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07711735
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070515
---
In the context of online advertising behavioral targeting refers to the ability through the use of anonymous data to deliver advertisements to consumers based on their recent behavior. In this kind of advertisement model advertisers review and buy a user segment to which they deliver their advertisements. For example a video game advertiser may be interested in a user segment corresponding to users that have queried for Xbox games and or have visited www.xbox.com and so forth.

More formally a user segment in a behavioral targeting system is defined as some user conditions met relative to some attributes wherein each attribute represents the behavior of a set of users such as the queries they have searched or some set of URLs they have visited. There are several types of attributes e.g. the URL pattern attribute represents the URLs the users visit the query attribute represents the queries the users search in the search engine the URL domain attribute represents the URL domain the users visit and the product and service attribute represents the product and or the service the users consume.

Attribute expansion tools have been developed to help advertisers define reasonably good user segments. With these expansion tools advertisers can reach more users by expanding the set of users that meet certain attributes. The core functionality of these tools is to expand a set of attributes according to the original attributes provided by the advertiser.

The simplest way to do such an expansion is to write a separate algorithm for each special type of attribute expansion e.g. an algorithm for expanding the query attribute to the URL pattern attribute. However if there are N types of attributes this technique requires writing N N different expansion algorithms to meet the different expansion requirements.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of representative concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in any way that would limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Briefly various aspects of the subject matter described herein are directed towards a technology in a behavioral targeting environment by which an original attribute is expanded into an expanded attribute set including by aggregating users that meet the original attribute into a mid result and using the mid result to determine user similarity relative to each of a plurality of candidate attribute types. The candidate attribute types are sorted by their determined user similarity into sorted candidate attributes with a subset e.g. the topmost similar N of the sorted candidate attributes selected for the expanded attribute.

Another aspect described is a technology in a behavioral targeting environment that suggests URL and or URL patterns from a set of users and information on URLs visited by the set of users. The URL and or URL patterns are computed by separating at least some URLs into a data structure such as nodes of a URL tree. The number of users in the user set who have visited the URL corresponding to the node is calculated along with the number of users in the set of users who have visited the URL on a sub tree whose root is the node. The user set intersection between an input user set and a user set on each node is determined and URL similarity and or URL pattern similarity is computed and output in decreasing order of similarity to determine the URL and or URL patterns.

Another aspect described is a technology directed towards suggesting domains from a set of users and domains visited by the set of users. The suggested domains may be computed from a set of users comprises by determining similarity between pairs of domains which may be determined offline with respect to an online behavioral targeting system. More particularly a similarity between each pair of domains may be computed using a Pearson coefficient function with an output for a given domain provided in decreasing order of similarity with respect to each other domain.

Other advantages may become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the drawings.

Various aspects of the technology described herein are generally directed towards improved behavioral targeting in the context of online advertising including by providing a uniformed attribute expansion mechanism algorithm that simplifies the expansion between various attribute types. Further unlike other types of attributes there is provided a way to suggest the URL patterns and or domains for a set of users.

As will be understood various examples are shown that facilitate a uniformed attribute expansion mechanism and suggestion of a user segment. However these are only non limiting examples for the purposes of describing the various concepts and aspects of the technology described herein. As such the present invention is not limited to any particular embodiments aspects concepts protocols formats structures functionalities or examples described herein. Rather any of the embodiments aspects concepts protocols formats structures functionalities or examples described herein are non limiting and the present invention may be used various ways that provide benefits and advantages in computing and online advertising technology in general.

Turning to there is shown a uniform attribute expansion mechanism A and B e.g. implemented in the form of an algorithm that simplifies the expansion between various attribute types. The input and the output of the algorithm are the original attribute and the expanded attribute respectively. The two attributes ordinarily have the same topic and the expanded attribute can reach more users than the original attribute.

In one example implementation the unified attribute expansion mechanism A and B generally includes a first example component A directed towards reaching a user set. In this component the mechanism aggregates the users who have met the original attribute into an aggregated user set . This aggregated user set is the core target to whom the advertiser wants to deliver this advertisement. Because the uniform expansion mechanism A and B supports different types of attribute expansion the general concepts are similar to other aggregate approaches that reach a set of users.

In the example of to expand with a new attribute a set of candidate attributes is defined and evaluated in which each candidate attributes relates in some way to the users in the user set . For each candidate attribute in the set a similarity value is computed in a second example component of the uniform attribute expansion mechanism B. For example the user similarity value for each candidate attribute may be computed by u U where U is the size of the user set of users belonging to that candidate attribute and u is the size of the user set belonging to both the candidate attribute and the original attribute. Candidate attributes are then sorted by user similarity with some number N of the top most similar results chosen as the expanded attribute or attributes for the expanded attribute set .

Step repeats the computation for other candidate attributes until all have been processed. Then the similarity values associated with their respective candidates are used to sort the candidate attributes step . The top N are then chosen as the expanded attribute or attributes in the set step .

Turning to another aspect there is described a way to suggest URLs and URL patterns for a set of users in a behavioral targeting system. Note that compared with other types of attributes there was heretofore not any known way to suggest URL patterns from a given set of users.

To suggest a URL pattern as represented in a URL pattern suggestion mechanism e.g. an algorithm is provided that constructs a URL tree whereby URLs and URL patterns can be suggested at the same time. The URL pattern suggestion mechanism takes as inputs a set of users and the URL visit log set from the set of users. As described below the mechanism analyzes the log set and outputs the URL and URL patterns according to the user set in similarity decreasing order.

To this end steps and of the example flow diagram of represent the building of a log tree . More particularly for each URL as selected at step at step the URL is split into n levels each level corresponding to a node in the tree . For example given a URL such as http update.microsoft.com microsoftupdate v6 default.aspx ln en us the URL may be split it into four levels corresponding to http a b c d each added into the tree via step . Step repeats the process for other URLs in the visit log .

On each tree node there are two user sets. For each node of URL tree as processed via steps and step calculates U the number users in this user set who have visited the URL on the node and TU the number users in this user set who have visited the URL on the sub tree whose root is the node. For example if user X visits http update.microsoft.com microsoftupdate v6 default.aspx ln en us then user X is counted in the U value for node d and user X is also in the TU value for nodes a b c d. As can be seen for any leaf node e.g. the node d in the URL tree U TU for any non leaf node on the URL tree U is a subset of TU that is UTU.

Note that because the entire URL tree may be extremely large it may take a relatively long time to calculate Ux and TUx for every node. However most of the nodes are irrelevant to the user set and thus a user to node table in which arranging the users in either the columns or rows is equivalent may be used e.g. 

Step represents calculating the user set intersection between the input user set and the user set on each node. For example if the input user set is U for each node on the URL tree the intersection is as follows U U U TU U TU

For each user steps and steps and represent calculating and outputting the suggested URL and URL patterns in decreasing order of similarity where for a user X Similarity Similarity

In addition to URL suggestion and URL pattern suggestion an example URL domain suggestion mechanism algorithm may be employed as generally represented in . Note that in general the URL domain attribute has limited value relative to other types of attributes e.g. because the number of the URL domains visited is far less than the number of URL patterns or queries whereby in one implementation the results are calculated offline which helps reduce the CPU load of the online system and shortens the response time. As will be understood this mechanism further promotes the suggestion precision in a behavioral targeting system.

To rank the candidates in one example implementation a Pearson coefficient function is used by the URL domain suggestion mechanism which is of higher precision than other ranking functions such as described above . As described above an online part of the example behavioral targeting system uses a unified expansion algorithm between various attribute types which uses a user set as a mid result and ranks the candidates by the ratio of users. Because the Pearson coefficient function considers not only the users but also the average of the visits it ordinarily has higher precision.

As represented in the inputs are the users URL visit log and URL domains . The mechanism analyzes the log and output the similarities between each pair of URL domains.

As represented in the flow diagram of step transfers the users URL visit log to a table matrix in which arranging the users in either the columns or rows is equivalent . The value in each cell is the visit count of the corresponding domain and user. For example in the example table below the value in the cell 0 0 is 3 which means that in the log the User 0 visited the Domain 0 three times.

Steps and represent selecting a pair of domains one to process by comparing with each other domain. Step calculates the Pearson coefficient similarities for the selected pair of URL domains according to the following formula 

As can be seen the above formula calculates the coefficient similarity of two URL domains. Rbar is the average value of domain u and R bar is the average value of domain u .

Step repeats the comparison for other domains to compare with to the selected domain that is being processed. When the comparisons for the selected domain are finished step represents outputting the set of suggested domains in decreasing order of Pearson coefficient similarity. Thus for a given domain Di for example the above formula provides the Pearson coefficient similarities between Di and each other domain which are then output as suggested domains in decreasing order of Pearson coefficient similarity. Step repeats the processing for each other domain.

The invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices tablet devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and so forth which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing various aspects of the invention may include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of the computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

The computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media and removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by the computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media described above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers herein to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a tablet or electronic digitizer a microphone a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown in may include a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . The monitor may also be integrated with a touch screen panel or the like. Note that the monitor and or touch screen panel can be physically coupled to a housing in which the computing device is incorporated such as in a tablet type personal computer. In addition computers such as the computing device may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface or the like.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include one or more local area networks LAN and one or more wide area networks WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. A wireless networking component such as comprising an interface and antenna may be coupled through a suitable device such as an access point or peer computer to a WAN or LAN. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It may be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

An auxiliary subsystem e.g. for auxiliary display of content may be connected via the user interface to allow data such as program content system status and event notifications to be provided to the user even if the main portions of the computer system are in a low power state. The auxiliary subsystem may be connected to the modem and or network interface to allow communication between these systems while the main processing unit is in a low power state.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

