---

title: Extensible and localizable health-related dictionary
abstract: A system that uses a health-related dictionary component to establish responses to requests from devices and applications is provided. The innovation discloses uses of a health-related dictionary to enable retrieval of standardized lists and taxonomies in the healthcare space as well as localization of health-related data. Examples of these taxonomies include codes from medical coding vocabularies such as CPT (Current Procedural Terminology), layouts, templates, as well as references to units of measurements such as feet, inches, meters, liters, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08417537&OS=08417537&RS=08417537
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08417537
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070925
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 863 897 filed on Nov. 1 2006 entitled INTERACTIVE AND INTUITIVE HEALTH AND FITNESS TRACKING and is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 745 898 filed on May 8 2007 entitled HEALTH INTEGRATION PLATFORM SCHEMA the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The evolution of computers and networking technologies from high cost low performance data processing systems to low cost high performance communication problem solving and entertainment systems has provided a cost effective and time saving means to lessen the burden of performing every day tasks such as correspondence bill paying shopping budgeting information and gathering etc. For example a computing system interfaced to the Internet by way of wire or wireless technology can provide a user with a channel for nearly instantaneous access to a wealth of information from a repository of web sites and servers located around the world. Such a system as well allows a user to not only gather information but also to provide information to disparate sources. As such online data storing and management has become increasingly popular.

For example collaborative social networking websites have exploded world wide. These sites allow users to create remotely stored profiles including personal data such as age gender schools attended graduating class places of employment etc. The sites subsequently allow other users to search the foregoing criteria in an attempt to locate other users be it to find a companion with similar interests or locate a long lost friend from high school. As another more practical example banking websites offer users the ability to remotely store information concerning bills to be paid. By utilizing this feature users can automatically schedule bill payments to be made from their bank account which will be automatically debited when the payment is scheduled. This allows simultaneous electronic management of account balancing and bill paying so as to save the user from manually entering checks into the register of their checkbook.

Another area of great interest in this country and the entire world is personal health and fitness. Many vastly differing concerns can be discussed in this area such as setting and obtaining personal fitness goals and the vastly disparate topic of the inefficiencies existing in our health system. For example today an individual wishing to receive pharmaceutical treatment for illness must first see their primary care physician. Before seeing the physician the patient will many times be required to show their health insurance coverage card. During the visit the physician will typically write a prescription for the patient. The patient then takes the prescription to the pharmacy for fulfillment at which time they may need to furnish their health insurance coverage card again. The pharmacy fills the prescription notifies insurance deducts any coverage amount and transfers the prescription to the patient upon payment of the balance. These manual steps are time consuming annoying inefficient and prone to errors. As well data associated with these steps is most often retained within distributed and disparate stores.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the innovation. This summary is not an extensive overview of the innovation. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the innovation or to delineate the scope of the innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the innovation in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The innovation disclosed and claimed herein in one aspect thereof comprises a system that uses a health related dictionary component to establish responses to requests from applications. Effectively the innovation discloses uses of a health related dictionary to enable retrieval of standardized lists and taxonomies in the healthcare space. Examples of these taxonomies include codes from medical coding vocabularies such as CPT Current Procedural Terminology layouts templates as well as references to units of measurements such as feet inches meters liters etc.

In addition to providing simple definitions and other reference materials the innovation discloses mechanisms to transform and or localize information such that it conforms to local customs and practices. For example information can be translated into a local language dialect formatted in accordance with local custom or the like. In these examples a profile can be used to define local policies preferences associated with a user and or application.

In still other aspects the dictionary component can communicate synchronously and or asynchronously with a plurality of applications. For instance an application can range from software applications to software application executed by way of electronic devices. Accordingly most any device and or application can generate a request to the dictionary component in accordance with the scope of the innovation.

In yet another aspect thereof artificial intelligence and machine learning reasoning logic components are provided that employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the innovation are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation can be employed and the subject innovation is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the innovation will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The innovation is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the innovation can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the innovation.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

As used herein the term to infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Referring initially to the drawings illustrates a system that facilitates employment of a dictionary associated with a health related network. In general system employs a dictionary access layer that enables requests from applications to communicate and or retrieve information from dictionary component . Effectively the dictionary access layer enables applications to communicate with a health related network as described in the Related Application set forth above and incorporated by reference herein. In managing requests the dictionary access layer provides an extensible and localizable health dictionary which can among other things define acronyms procedures and vocabulary transform units of weight measurement localize formats etc.

In operation the dictionary access layer enables retrieval of standardized lists taxonomies from this health related information platform. In other words applications that are built on top of a health integration platform as set forth in the Related Application incorporated by reference above employ the dictionary access layer as a facility to retrieve access standardized lists taxonomies within this platform. Examples of these lists taxonomies include codes from medical coding vocabularies such as CPT Current Procedural Terminology ICD9CM International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems Ninth Revision Clinical Modification units of measurements like feet inches meters. Since these applications are part of a unified ecosystem it becomes imperative that these lists taxonomies are handled in a common way in the health related information platform for use across the application space. Accordingly the dictionary access layer provides mechanisms to store localize expand and customize these lists taxonomies.

Upon a review of the aforementioned Related Application it will be understood that the dictionary component can be used as a key part of the health integration platform by providing reference transformation and localization services. The dictionary component uses a repository as storage in the back end. It will be appreciated that the repository schema can support localization. As will be described in greater detail below the dictionary component can have a middle tier that performs translations through XSLT Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformation that enables customization of localized results. Moreover the dictionary component can include a set of well defined APIs application program interfaces that enables vocabularies to be queried.

While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein e.g. in the form of a flow chart are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the subject innovation is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with the innovation occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the innovation.

At a request can be received from an application for example a request to decipher an acronym that corresponds to a medical procedure. In another example the request can be a request to transform a unit of measurement. In still other examples the access to the dictionary can include a request to localize e.g. format configure health related information.

The request can be analyzed at in order to determine information desired from the dictionary. The dictionary is accessed at and information is received at . It is to be understood that the information received can be configured in a format acceptable for rendering. Else appropriate formats renderings or transforms can be applied to the retrieved information prior to rendering at .

In still other aspects as optionally illustrated by dashed lines at the information can be localized to conform to a desired locale. For example the information can be translated into a local language dialect formatted to conform to local custom or the like. It is to be understood that most any configuration can be performed on the dictionary information prior to rendering to the requester e.g. application user . It is further to be understood and appreciated that rules e.g. implementation schemes can be applied in order to configure the information. These alternative aspects are to be included within the scope of the innovation and claims appended hereto.

As will be appreciated upon a reading of this disclosure and claims appended hereto the innovation includes the architectures the actual APIs and the schemas employed to establish and use the dictionary within the healthcare domain. These APIs are used to communicate with the platform to get health related taxonomies. The schema is used to store a variety of taxonomies within a health related network each of which conforms to a structure with different representational needs and also contains structures to help efficiently return localized versions of these taxonomies. The localization aspect of thing transforms can also draw its logic from the dictionary subsystem.

It will further be understood and appreciated that the control of the dictionary subsystem API and schema enables protection of investments and would facilitate an offering of a unique resource in the healthcare space in terms of the ability to store and retrieve health and wellness data in a predictable and extensible fashion.

The following discussion is provided to add context of the dictionary concepts within the healthcare space. As such this discussion is not intended to limit the scope of the innovation in any manner. Rather it will be understood that other features functions and benefits exist in addition to those discussed in connection with that follows.

Referring now to an example system that facilitates accessing information within a health integration network according to a schema is shown. An application can at least one of display or specify health related data. It is to be appreciated that the application can be many different types of applications including software applications electronic devices executing a software application electronic devices alone legacy devices interfaceable with a device executing a software application and the like. The application can utilize the API to request and or store data within a health integration network . It is to be appreciated that the API can synchronously or asynchronously communicate with a plurality of applications of similar or different types.

The API can also include a software layer e.g. dictionary creation modification or access layer that leverages in interpreting and processing a request or data from an application . The software layer can be separated as shown or it can be integrated within the API the health integration network or both. Upon interpreting and processing a request from the application the API can process the request and or can leverage the software layer for access to dictionary information.

By way of another example the software layer can translate external vocabularies in order to make them compatible with the health integration network . As shown the health integration network can comprise a plurality of data stores including a record repository a directory repository and a dictionary repository . In addition the health integration network can comprise many other systems and or layers to facilitate data management transfer and access. Furthermore the repositories can be redundant such that multiple versions of respective repositories are available for other APIs and applications and or a back up source for other versions of the repositories. Additionally the repositories can be logically partitioned among various physical data stores to allow efficient storage and retrieval for highly accessed systems.

Providing separate partitions and or repositories can allow varying levels of security across the disparate partitions repositories. This can be advantageous to provide compliance with regulations for example such as Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA where perhaps the health records need tight security to be in compliance with HIPAA requirements but data types and vocabulary lookups can require little or no security. Moreover the repositories can be hierarchically based such as XML extensible markup language and or relationally based.

The record repository can be highly distributed and comprise personal health related data records for a plurality of users. Thus it can be beneficial for the record repository to be distributed to many different types of repositories even relational and hierarchical XML alike. In this regard the health integration network can support a plurality of different architectures and structures. The records can be of different formats and can comprise most any kind of data single instance structured or unstructured such as plain data data and associated type information self describing data by way of associated schemas such as XSL schemas for example data with associated templates by way of stylesheets for example data with units such as data with conversion instructions binary data such as pictures x rays etc. and the like.

Moreover the record repository can keep an audit trail of changes made to the records for tracking and restoration purposes a schema component not shown can automatically enter records into the audit trail portion of the record repository upon modification of the records authorization rules related to the records and the like. Additionally any data type or related instances of the foregoing information can be stored in a disparate repository such as the dictionary repository described infra. The record repository can be partitioned distributed and or segmented based on a number of factors including performance logical grouping of users e.g. users of the same company family and the like .

The directory repository can store information such as user account data which can include user name authentication credentials the existence of records for the user etc. The directory repository can also house information about records themselves including the user to whom they belong where the record is held in a distributed record repository configuration authorization rules for the records etc. For example a user can specify that a spouse have access to his her fitness related data but not medical health related data. In this way a user can protect his her data while allowing appropriate parties such as spouse doctor insurance company personal trainer etc. or applications devices blood pressure machine pacemaker fitness watch etc. to have access to relevant data. In addition the directory repository can comprise data regarding applications that interact with the health integration network applications can be required to register with the health integration network and thus the application data in the directory repository can include the registration information.

The dictionary repository can hold information relating to vocabulary definitions used by the health integration network and requesting entities such as the API and software layer . Such definitions can include data type definitions and information on how to display the different data types or transform them. Additionally the dictionary repository can hold information for display layouts and templates etc. Furthermore the dictionary repository can hold different look up tables that define codes through the use of standards and the like. For example the dictionary repository can support International Classification of Diseases ninth revision ICD 9 released by the National Center for Health Statistics. These codes identify different diseases and diagnoses thus a doctor can put one of these codes on a user s chart in the health integration network and the dictionary repository can allow the software layer or API to translate this code into something that makes more sense to the user such as medical name and or different other or additional information concerning the diagnosis.

Separating the repositories and providing authentication authorization information to be stored for example in the directory repository allows application developers to utilize the health integration network without having to implement authentication authorization procedures for use with the applications . Moreover the repositories can provide record level authorizations as an additional layer of security. The dictionary repository can also be used to retrieve other metadata such as plural and abbreviated forms of the codes. It can also hold information that allows conversion between different measurement units such as between feet to meters Fahrenheit to Celsius etc.

In one embodiment the application which can be more than one application can make a call to the API to convert data for example. The API can leverage the software layer to process the call made by the application . The software layer can then utilize the dictionary repository to access definitions and in this particular example to convert data into a particular desired unit s . Still further the dictionary component can also be used to automatically configure or format the data into a format consistent with a desired locale.

The aforementioned systems architectures and the like have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component to provide aggregate functionality. Communication between systems components and or sub components can be accomplished in accordance with either a push and or pull model. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems and methods may include or consist of artificial intelligence AI machine learning reasoning MLR or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent for instance by inferring actions based on contextual information. By way of example and not limitation such mechanisms can be employed with respect to generation of data definition conversion transformation localization and the like.

Referring now to an alternative architectural block diagram of system is shown in accordance with an aspect of the innovation. As illustrated dictionary access layer can include a request analysis component and a dictionary interface component that together enable a processing a request from an application . While specific examples are described herein it is to be understood that these examples are not intended to limit the innovation in any manner.

In one example the request analysis component can evaluate the request received from application in order to determine information processes desired from the dictionary component. Accordingly the request analysis component provides details of the request to the dictionary interface component whereas the component interacts with the dictionary component to fulfill the request. As described above the dictionary component via the interface component can be employed to provide simple definitions e.g. decipher medical terminology and nomenclature effect unit transformations localize health related information etc.

The dictionary interface component enables access to the taxonomy storage and localization e.g. dictionary component . As disclosed in the identified Related Application as illustrated in infra the health taxonomies can each be maintained with its own unique coding system and structural requirements within the dictionary component. These coding systems enable the dictionary interface component to return different variations of the taxonomy localized per the locale of the partner or application calling the API.

In aspects the dictionary component can include three collections. A collection of code systems each represents a separate taxonomy in the dictionary component. A collection of source concepts can be included that represents individual concepts within a taxonomy wherein the taxonomy can include multiple concepts. Moreover the dictionary component can include a collection of localized versions of text strings.

The profile determination component can be employed to establish specifics related to a user and or application profile. For example where localization is desired the profile determination component can identify a locale by which to communicate to the dictionary interface component . It is to be understood that most any profile parameter e.g. location locale preference etc. can be established by the profile determination component .

An example dictionary interface component is illustrated in . Generally the interface component can include a configuration component and a rendering component that facilitate communication between the dictionary component and the application e.g. of . In other words the configuration component can receive information from the analysis component and thereafter access data from the dictionary component in furtherance of fulfilling the request. The configuration component can format data apply transforms or localizations etc. in accordance with the request.

Thereafter the rendering component can be employed to communicate the information to the requester e.g. application of . It is to be understood that the rendering component can deliver data to the requestor in accordance with the requested criteria and or predefined rule.

Within the dictionary component each code system or taxonomy can be identified using a multi part key for example a three part key which includes the name family and version of the taxonomy. While a three part key is described it is to be understood that most any suitable multi part key can be employed within alternative aspects. The dictionary can also contain additional descriptive information about the taxonomy. In operation the configuration component employs this information when preparing a response to the request.

Continuing with the example each source concept contains a pointer to the code system or taxonomy it belongs to and identifiers for the display text and abbreviation associated with the source concept. The configuration component can use each of these identifiers in conjunction with the supplied locale of the caller to select the appropriate localized form of the display text or abbreviation as a text string from the localized strings collection. As illustrated in the configuration component can include a transform component and a localization component . Essentially the transform component and localization component employ the information maintained within the taxonomies in order to provide the rendering component with response information to the request.

In addition to this information each source concept can have associated with it a field or group of fields that stores some free form XML extensible markup language . The XML is used to store structured data that helps use or describe source concepts in its taxonomy. This free form XML assists to associate structure with individual taxonomy elements as per the descriptive structural requirements of that particular taxonomy. It is reasonable to expect further extensions to both the taxonomies being used in the system and structure used to describe them. Accordingly these further extensions are to be included within the scope of the innovation and claims appended hereto. In aspects the rendering component communicates to the API to return to the users the contents of requested taxonomies as lists with localized forms for the display text associated with each source concept in the taxonomy.

The innovation further discloses the use of structures in the dictionary subsystem that can be used by the transform component and localization component to achieve localized transformation of the thing data before presenting it to the caller. Each data item in the system called a thing belongs to a type defined in the system. Associated with each type is a collection of transforms that can be applied on a thing before it is returned by the platform. One good use of these transforms would be to change the representation of the thing for display purposes. The transforms themselves can include text which can have different representations based on the locale of the caller e.g. application of fetching the thing. Also the actual applicable transform itself may differ based on the locale of the caller. For example a caller with a locale associated with Arabic may want the contents of the thing rendered right to left or the currency representation in a thing may contain commas or periods depending on the locale.

The system stores along with a collection of thing transforms per thing type a collection of localized representations of contents transforms. The transform collection contains besides a name used to identify the transform certain basic transforms that are included with every transform before it is applied. The transform can also contain the names of the various vocabularies or taxonomies whose contents are used in the transform.

Additionally free text used in the transforms that requires localization is itself represented as a special vocabulary in the dictionary and as transform variables in the transform. Upon selecting the appropriate transform to apply on a thing the transform component selects the transform the various included transforms and the vocabulary and the transform variables from the transforms store within the dictionary component. Other than free form text it is to be understood that the transforms can also reference contents of other vocabularies taxonomies in the system. These taxonomies are therefore also potentially associated with a transform. The representation of the content of the vocabulary before being combined with the transform can be independently based locale.

Similarly the localization component fetches independently the localized representations for the transform and the included transforms from the localized transforms store within the dictionary component. As well the localization component fetches the localized representations of the vocabularies and transforms variables from the source concepts store also within the dictionary component. Thereafter the configuration component combines these representations to create the transform contents to be applied on the thing. 

A fallback or default mechanism can be used independently on each part during the fetch of the four parts of this system. If the representation for that part does not exist in the current locale this fallback mechanism attempts to get a suitable representation in some acceptable locale for each of the above four parts. The locale in the system can be represented by two parts the country and the language. In normal operation the fallback attempts to fetch the representation for the specified locale followed by the representation for the specified language alone. An example fallback would be to fetch a representation for English and United States locale followed by a representation for the English language.

A THINGS TRANSFORM item can additionally exist in the schema to define instructions for transforming given types to another type format or architecture. It is to be understood that the thing data of a particular thing type in the system is one being transformed to a representational format. In other words the thing type is a type in the system that the thing data can belong to and implies the semantics of the data it is not associated with the representational format. The transforms merely transform a thing from one representational format such as XML to another such as HTML.

For example a thing type id can be provided to identify the type that the thing belongs to. Further it can be used in conjunction with the supplied transform tag to appropriately identify the transform to be used on the thing. Moreover an XML stylesheet XSL can be stored according to a transform item that can be applied to the data resulting in the appropriate representation of the transformed data. Using this method many different transform types can be created including really simple syndication RSS any stylized string representations HTML and the like. To identify the different types and other items that can be in the dictionary repository as will be further specified below the schema can provide a STRING TOKENS item. This can provide for example data such as a string token id to uniquely identify the string tokens in the repository that conform to this item specification as well as the string value. Also a culture code can be provided to identify a culture to which the string token can relate this includes language or dialect and country combinations for example such as America English UK English China Mandarin Canada English Canada French etc. As mentioned the string can tie back to a thing type to help a user or developer to identify or otherwise display the type.

Additionally in one aspect the STRING TOKENS item can also define data for a RELATIONSHIP TYPES item and the associated data can apply labels to relationship types important to a health integration network such as the relationship between two people defined in the PEOPLE item such as father mother spouse sibling doctor personal trainer etc. . The RELATIONSHIP TYPES item can have a relationship id which can be the same as used in previously described schemas and a name token id that can match up with a string token id in data defined by the STRING TOKENS item. It is to be understood that the relationship types described above are an example and are not intended to limit the innovation in any way.

Another example of data that have a definition in the schema is that related to code systems such as ICD 9 mentioned above . For this data a CODE SYSTEMS item can be implemented to conform data related to these systems providing entries for a code system id for example to uniquely identify respective code systems available in a health integration network. Additionally the CODE SYSTEMS item can also provide a plurality of names representing common names as well as official names. Moreover a code family can be provided that represents different groupings of codes as well as a version of the code culture code as mentioned above upload source and the like. Also some status identifiers can be provided such as whether or not the code is queryable and active. These can also be state codes conforming to a state schema. Furthermore a SOURCE CONCEPTS item can be provided to define different items related to the CODE SYSTEMS item. For example a display text token id can be provided that can relate to an item conforming to the STRING TOKENS item for displaying a user friendly text string. Additionally an abbreviated version of the string can be provided as well as some free form XML to express the relevant data. Also the SOURCE CONCEPTS item can provide the code system id to which it relates.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject innovation and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the innovation can be implemented. While the innovation has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the innovation also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the innovation may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the innovation includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject innovation.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the innovation.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the innovation can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computing environment in accordance with the subject innovation. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the innovation for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the innovation for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of the innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the innovation are possible. Accordingly the innovation is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

