---

title: Buried circumferential electrode microcavity plasma device arrays, electrical interconnects, and formation method
abstract: A preferred embodiment microcavity plasma device array of the invention includes a plurality of first metal circumferential metal electrodes that surround microcavities in the device. The first circumferential electrodes are buried in a metal oxide layer and surround the microcavities in a plane transverse to the microcavity axis, while being protected from plasma in the microcavities by the metal oxide. In embodiments of the invention, the circumferential electrodes can be connected in patterns. A second electrode(s) is arranged so as to be isolated from said first electrodes by said first metal oxide layer. In some embodiments, the second electrode(s) is in a second layer, and in other embodiments the second electrode(s) is also within the first metal oxide layer. A containing layer, e.g., a thin layer of glass, quartz, or plastic, seals the discharge medium (plasma) into the microcavities. In a preferred method of formation embodiment, a metal foil or film is obtained or formed with micro-holes. The foil is anodized to form metal oxide. One or more self-patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and buried in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form in a closed circumference around each microcavity in a plane(s) transverse to the microcavity axis, and can be electrically isolated or connected. Preferred embodiments provide inexpensive microplasma device electrode structures and a fabrication method for realizing microplasma arrays that are lightweight and scalable to large areas. Electrodes buried in metal oxide and complex patterns of electrodes can also be formed without reference to microplasma devices—that is, for general electrical circuitry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08004017&OS=08004017&RS=08004017
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08004017
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070724
---
This application is related to and claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior co pending provisional application Ser. No. 60 833 405 filed Jul. 26 2006.

This invention was made with Government assistance under U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research grant No. F49620 03 1 0391. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention is in the field of microcavity plasma devices also known as microdischarge devices or microplasma devices.

Microcavity plasma devices produce a nonequilibrium low temperature plasma within and essentially confined to a cavity having a characteristic dimension d below approximately 500 m. This new class of plasma devices exhibits several properties that differ substantially from those of conventional macroscopic plasma sources. Because of their small physical dimensions microcavity plasmas normally operate at gas or vapor pressures considerably higher than those accessible to macroscopic devices. For example microplasma devices with a cylindrical microcavity having a diameter of 200 300 m or less are capable of operation at rare gas as well as Nand other gases tested to date pressures up to and beyond one atmosphere.

Such high pressure operation is advantageous. An example advantage is that at these higher pressures the plasma chemistry favors the formation of several families of electronically excited molecules including the rare gas dimers Xe Kr Ar . . . and the rare gas halides such as XeCl ArF and KrF that are known to be efficient emitters of ultraviolet UV vacuum ultraviolet VUV and visible radiation. This characteristic in combination with the ability of microplasma devices to operate in a wide range of gases or vapors and combinations thereof offers emission wavelengths extending over a broad spectral range. Furthermore operation of the plasma in the vicinity of atmospheric pressure minimizes the pressure differential across the packaging material when a microplasma device or array is sealed.

Another unique feature of microplasma devices the large power deposition into the plasma typically tens of kW cmor more is partially responsible for the efficient production of atoms and molecules that are well known optical emitters. Consequently because of the properties of microplasma devices including the high pressure operation mentioned above and their electron and gas temperatures microplasmas are efficient sources of optical radiation.

Research by the present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has resulted in new microcavity plasma device structures as well as applications. As an example semiconductor fabrication processes have been adapted to produce large arrays of microplasma devices in silicon wafers with the microcavities having the form of an inverted pyramid. Arrays with 250 000 devices each device having an emitting aperture of 50 50 m have been demonstrated with a device packing density array filling factor and active area of 10cm 25 and 25 cm respectively. Other microplasma device structures have been fabricated in ceramic multilayer structures photodefinable glass and more recently Al AlOsheets.

Microcavity plasma devices have also been developed over the past decade for a wide variety of applications. An exemplary application for an array of microplasmas is in the area of displays. Since single cylindrical microplasma devices for example with a characteristic dimension d as small as 10 m have been demonstrated devices or groups of devices offer a spatial resolution that is desirable for a pixel in a display. In addition the efficiency for generating with a microcavity plasma device the ultraviolet light at the heart of the plasma display panel PDP can exceed that of the discharge structure currently used in plasma televisions.

Early microplasma devices were driven by direct current DC voltages and exhibited short lifetimes for several reasons including sputtering damage to the metal electrodes. Improvements in device design and fabrication have extended lifetimes significantly but minimizing the cost of materials and the manufacture of large arrays continue to be key considerations. Also more recently developed dielectric barrier microplasma devices excited by a time varying voltage are preferable when lifetime is of primary concern.

Research by the present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has pioneered and advanced the state of microcavity plasma devices. This work has resulted in practical devices with one or more important features and structures. Most of these devices are able to operate continuously with power loadings of tens of kW cmto beyond 100 kW cm. One such device that has been realized is a multi segment linear array of microplasmas designed for pumping optical amplifiers and lasers. Also the ability to interface a gas or vapor phase plasma with the electron hole plasma in a semiconductor has been demonstrated. Fabrication processes developed largely by the semiconductor and microelectromechanical systems MEMs communities have been adopted for fabricating many of the microcavity plasma devices demonstrated to date. Use of silicon integrated circuit fabrication methods has further reduced the size and cost of microcavity plasma devices and arrays. Because of the batch nature of micromachining not only are the performance characteristics of the devices improved but the cost of fabricating large arrays is also reduced. The ability to fabricate large arrays with precise tolerances and high density makes these devices attractive for display applications.

This research by the present inventors and colleagues at the University of Illinois has resulted in exemplary practical devices. For example semiconductor fabrication processes have been adopted to demonstrate densely packed arrays of microplasma devices exhibiting uniform emission characteristics.

It has been demonstrated that such arrays can be used to excite phosphors in a manner analogous to plasma display panels but with values of the luminous efficacy that are not presently achievable with conventional plasma display panels. Another important device is a microcavity plasma photodetector that exhibits high sensitivity.

The following U.S. patents and patent applications describe microcavity plasma devices resulting from these research efforts. Published Applications 20050148270 Microdischarge devices and arrays 20040160162 Microdischarge devices and arrays 20040100194 Microdischarge photodetectors 20030132693 Microdischarge devices and arrays having tapered microcavities Patents U.S. Pat. No. 6 867 548 Microdischarge devices and arrays U.S. Pat. No. 6 828 730 Microdischarge photodetectors U.S. Pat. No. 6 815 891 Method and apparatus for exciting a microdischarge U.S. Pat. No. 6 695 664 Microdischarge devices and arrays U.S. Pat. No. 6 563 257 Multilayer ceramic microdischarge device U.S. Pat. No. 6 541 915 High pressure arc lamp assisted start up device and method U.S. Pat. No. 6 194 833 Microdischarge lamp and array U.S. Pat. No. 6 139 384 Microdischarge lamp formation process and U.S. Pat. No. 6 016 027 Microdischarge lamp.

Additional exemplary microcavity plasma devices are disclosed in U.S. Published Patent Application 2005 0269953 entitled Phase Locked Microdischarge Array and AC RF or Pulse Excited Microdischarge U.S. Published Patent Application no. 2006 0038490 entitled Microplasma Devices Excited by Interdigitated Electrodes U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 958 174 filed on Oct. 4 2004 entitled Microdischarge Devices with Encapsulated Electrodes U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 958 175 filed on Oct. 4 2004 entitled Metal Dielectric Multilayer Microdischarge Devices and Arrays and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 042 228 entitled AC Excited Microcavity Discharge Device and Method. 

The development of microcavity plasma devices continues with an emphasis on the display lighting and biomedical applications markets. The ultimate utility of microcavity plasma devices in displays will hinge on several critical factors including efficacy discussed earlier lifetime and addressability. Addressability in particular is vital in most display applications. For example for a group of microcavity discharges to act as a pixel each microplasma device must be individually addressable.

Manufacturing of large area microcavity plasma device arrays benefits from structures and fabrication methods that reduce cost and increase reliability. Of particular interest in this regard are the electrical interconnections between devices in a large array. If the interconnect technology is difficult to implement or if the interconnect pattern is not easily reconfigurable then manufacturing costs are increased and potential commercial applications may be restricted. Such considerations are of growing importance as the demand rises for displays or light emitting panels of ever increasing area.

A preferred embodiment microcavity plasma device array of the invention includes a plurality of first metal circumferential electrodes that surround microcavities in the array in a plane s transverse to the microcavity axes. The first circumferential electrodes are buried in a metal oxide layer and surround the microcavities while being protected from plasma in the microcavities by the metal oxide. In embodiments of the invention some or all of the circumferential electrodes are connected. Patterns of connections can be defined. A second electrode s is arranged so as to be isolated from said first electrodes by the first metal oxide layer. In some embodiments the second electrode s is in a second layer and in other embodiments the second electrode s is carried on or within the first metal oxide layer. A containing layer e.g. a thin glass or plastic layer seals discharge medium into the microcavities.

In a preferred method of formation embodiment a metal foil or film is obtained or formed with microcavities such as through holes . The foil or film is anodized to form metal oxide. One or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and buried in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form in a closed circumference around each microcavity and can be electrically isolated or connected.

Patterns of electrode interconnections buried in a metal oxide layer provided by the invention also have separate utility as wiring for an electronic device or system. An embodiment of the invention is wiring for an electronic device or system comprising a plurality of microcavities defined in a first metal oxide layer. Circumferential metal first electrodes are buried in the metal oxide layer each electrode surrounding an individual microcavity. Interconnections buried in the first metal oxide layer connect two or more of the first electrodes. The interconnection of the first electrodes is according to a pattern.

A preferred embodiment microcavity plasma device array of the invention includes a plurality of first metal circumferential electrodes that surround microcavities in the device in plane s transverse to the microcavities. The first circumferential electrodes are buried in a metal oxide layer while being protected from plasma in the microcavities by the metal oxide layer. In embodiments of the invention some or all of the circumferential electrodes are connected. Connection patterns can be defined.

A second electrode s is arranged so as to be isolated from said first electrodes by said first metal oxide layer. In some embodiments the second electrode s is in a second layer and in other embodiments the second electrode s is carried on or within the first metal oxide layer. In a preferred embodiment a second electrode or a plurality of second electrodes are buried in a second dielectric layer. The second dielectric layer is bonded to or brought in close proximity to the first layer and a containing layer seals gas or vapor or a combination thereof within the array. In another preferred embodiment the second electrode is a plurality of electrodes within the first metal oxide layer.

The second layer can include for example a common electrode. The second layer can be a solid thin metal foil buried in or encapsulated by oxide to define a common second electrode. In other embodiments the second layer can include an electrode pattern with or without microcavities. Preferably the second layer is formed similarly to the first layer with metal circumferential buried electrodes. Such an array provides low capacitance and high switching speed. Microplasma device arrays of the invention can be flexible lightweight and inexpensive.

In a preferred method of formation embodiment a metal foil or film is obtained or formed with microcavities such as through holes . The foil or film is anodized to form metal oxide. One or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and buried in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form in a closed circumference around each microcavity and can be electrically isolated or connected.

A preferred embodiment microplasma device array of the invention has at least a subset of the microcavities interconnected. First metal circumferential electrodes are buried in a metal oxide dielectric layer and at least some of the first metal circumferential electrodes are interconnected. Metal oxide also lines the inside of each microcavity so as to protect the first metal circumferential electrodes from exposure to the plasma. A second electrode s is also buried in a second metal oxide dielectric layer which is brought in close proximity to the first layer with the first electrode and the microcavity array. This second electrode can for example comprise parallel metal lines buried in dielectric eac h of which is intended to be associated with a specific row or column of microcavities in the array. The second electrode can alternatively be a continuous sheet of metal buried in a dielectric. Microcavities may or may not be formed in the second electrode.

Microcavity devices and arrays are provided by embodiments of the invention in which planar circumferential metal electrodes lying in a plane s transverse to a plurality of microcavities provide power to and interconnections among the microcavities. Electrodes are buried in a dielectric such as a metal oxide and surround each microcavity. The shape of the electrode around the microcavity essentially replicates the cross sectional geometry of the microcavity circular diamond etc. . A thin wall of the dielectric lies between the electrode and the edge of the microcavity thereby electrically insulating the electrode and providing chemical and physical isolation of the electrode from the plasma within the microcavity. That is the electrode is not flush with the microcavity wall.

A preferred embodiment includes a plurality of first circumferential electrodes buried in a dielectric and some or all of these electrodes are connected. A second electrode is buried in a second dielectric layer. The second dielectric layer is bonded or otherwise brought in proximity to the first layer forming an array of devices and a containing layer seals gas or vapor or a combination thereof within the array. In embodiments of the invention the electrodes associated with different microcavities can be interconnected in patterns that are controllable.

In a preferred method of formation the patterning of electrode interconnections between microcavities occurs automatically during the course of wet chemical processing anodization of a metal electrode. Prior to processing microcavities such as through holes of the desired shape are produced in a metal electrode e.g. a foil or film . The electrode is subsequently anodized so as to convert virtually all of the electrode into a dielectric normally an oxide . The anodization process and microcavity placement determines whether adjacent microcavities in an array are electrically connected or not.

Relative to previous microcavity plasma technologies this invention has several advantages. One is that the capacitance of the two electrode structure is reduced because the first electrodes and interconnections if any and in some preferred embodiments the second electrode as well is not a continuous sheet as has been the case with most previous technology. Much of the metal sheet that in former microplasma devices and arrays would constitute one electrode is converted in this invention into a metal oxide dielectric. Since the capacitance of a parallel plate capacitor is proportional to the electrode area the reduction in electrode area similarly reduces the capacitance of the overall structure. The reduction in capacitance similarly reduces the displacement current of an array which renders this technology of value for display applications in which large displacement currents are generally a liability.

Another advantage of embodiments of the present invention is that the dielectric can be a material with a large bandgap and hence is transparent in the visible and perhaps in portions of the ultraviolet UV or infrared IR regions as well.

With preferred formation methods the buried circumferential metal electrodes form as self patterned electrodes. The self patterned electrodes can provide for the delivery of electrical power to and interconnections among microcavity plasma devices. Circumferential electrodes are buried in a metal oxide dielectric and surround each microcavity. The shape of the circumferential electrode surrounding a microcavity essentially replicates the cross sectional geometry of the microcavity circular diamond etc. that is the electrode shape essentially matches that of a cut away view of the microcavity by a plane that is transverse to the microcavity axis. A thin wall of the metal oxide dielectric lies between the electrode and the edge of the microcavity thereby electrically insulating the electrode and providing chemical and physical isolation of the electrode from the plasma within the microcavity. In embodiments of the invention the electrodes associated with different microcavities can be interconnected in patterns that are controllable. In the preferred method of formation the patterning of electrode interconnections between microcavities occurs automatically during the course of wet chemical processing anodization of a metal foil or film. Prior to processing microcavities of the desired shape are produced in a metal foil or film. The foil or film is subsequently anodized to convert substantially all of the metal into a dielectric normally an oxide . The anodization process and microcavity placement determine whether adjacent microcavities in an array are electrically connected or not.

A fabrication method of the invention is a wet chemical process in which self patterned circumferential electrodes are automatically formed around microcavities during an anodization process that converts metal to metal oxide. The size and pitch of the microcavities in a metal foil or film prior to anodization as well as the anodization parameters determine which of the microcavity plasma devices in a one or two dimensional array are connected. In a preferred embodiment a metal foil is obtained or fabricated with microcavities having any of a broad range of cross sections circular square etc. . The foil is anodized to form metal oxide. One or more self patterned metal electrodes are automatically formed and simultaneously buried in the metal oxide created by the anodization process. The electrodes form uniformly around the perimeter of each microcavity and can be electrically isolated or connected in patterns. The shape of the electrodes that form around the microcavities is dependent upon the shape of the microcavities prior to anodization to create the metal oxide. Thus for example cylindrical microcavities produce buried ring shaped electrodes and diamond shaped microcavities produce essentially diamond shaped buried electrodes. The electrode around each microcavity is however not flush with the microcavity wall. Rather the electrode is covered by metal oxide a portion of which forms the wall of the microcavity.

Preferred embodiment fabrication methods are readily controlled by the parameters of the anodization process to for example connect groups of microcavities. Electrodes can be formed so as to ignite an entire group of microcavity plasma devices such as a row or column of devices in a two dimensional array or if desired a single device in an array. The formation of the self patterned electrodes and the conversion of metal foil to metal oxide is accomplished entirely in an acid bath. One way to produce an array of devices is to join a thin oxide layer with patterned buried electrodes and microcavities to another thin oxide layer having a buried electrode s . Fabrication methods of the invention are inexpensive and permit large sheets of material to be processed simultaneously. Addressable and nonaddressable arrays can be formed.

Devices of the invention are amenable to mass production techniques which may include for example roll to roll processing to bond together first and second thin layers with buried electrodes. Embodiments of the invention provide for large arrays of microcavity plasma devices that can be made inexpensively. Also exemplary devices of the invention are formed from thin layers that are flexible and at least partially transparent in the visible region of the spectrum.

The structure of preferred embodiment microcavity plasma devices of the invention is based upon foils or films of metal that are available or can be produced in arbitrary lengths such as on rolls. In a method of the invention a pattern of microcavities is produced in a metal foil which is subsequently anodized thereby resulting in microcavities in a metal oxide rather than the metal with each microcavity surrounded in a plane transverse to the microcavity axis by a buried metal electrode. During device operation the metal oxide protects the microcavity and electrically isolates the electrode from the plasma within the microcavity.

A second metal foil is also encapsulated with oxide and can be bonded to the first encapsulated foil. The second metal foil forms a second electrode s . For one preferred embodiment microcavity plasma device array of the invention no particular alignment is necessary during bonding of the two encapsulated foils. In another embodiment of the invention the second electrode comprises an array of parallel metal lines buried in the metal oxide. The entire array comprising two metal oxide layers with buried electrodes can be sealed with thin glass quartz or even plastic windows for example with the desired gas or gas mixture sealed within.

Preferred materials for the metal electrodes and metal oxide are aluminum and aluminum oxide Al AlO . Another exemplary metal metal oxide material system is titanium and titanium dioxide Ti TiO . Other metal metal oxide materials systems will be apparent to artisans. Preferred material systems permit the formation of microcavity plasma device arrays of the invention by inexpensive mass production techniques such as roll to roll processing.

The shape cross section and depth of the microcavity as well as the identity of the gas or vapor in the microcavity the applied voltage and the voltage waveform determine the plasma configuration and the radiative efficiency of a microplasma given a specific atomic or molecular emitter. The overall thickness of exemplary microplasma array structures of the invention can be for example 200 m or less making such arrays very flexible and inexpensive. Furthermore the density of microcavity plasma devices number per cmof array surface area can exceed 10cm with filling factors ratio of the array s radiating area to its overall area beyond 50 attainable.

Embodiments of the invention provide independent addressing of individual microcavity plasma devices in an array. As noted earlier in one embodiment the second electrode may comprise one or more arrays of parallel metal lines buried in metal oxide. The entire addressable array consists of two electrodes or electrode patterns separately buried in metal oxide by anodization and subsequently bonded.

Patterns of electrode interconnections buried in a metal oxide layer provided by the invention also have separate utility as wiring for an electronic device or system. An embodiment of the invention is wiring for an electronic device or system comprising a plurality of microcavities defined in a first metal oxide layer. Circumferential metal first electrodes are buried in the metal oxide layer each electrode surrounding an individual microcavity. Interconnections buried in the first metal oxide layer connect two or more of the first electrodes. The interconnection of the first electrodes is according to a pattern.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention.

A second electrode in can be a solid conductive foil and is buried within a second thin oxide layer e.g. metal oxide similar to that of the first layer . However in preferred embodiments the second electrode is patterned as for example parallel lines aligned with the rows and or columns of microcavities . In one embodiment the metal lines are connected electrically. In this way a common electrode can be formed for a large array of microcavity devices but the amount of metal is reduced compared to a solid conductive foil and the capacitance of the array is thus reduced. In other embodiments the metal lines may not be connected electrically for the purpose of addressing individual microcavity devices. The second electrode is buried in or encapsulated by oxide . The desired discharge medium gas vapor or combination thereof is contained in the microcavities and microplasmas are produced within the microcavities when a time varying voltage waveform having the proper RMS value is supplied by generator . The driving voltage may be sinusoidal bipolar DC or unipolar DC for example.

The array can be sealed by any suitable material which can be completely transparent to emission wavelengths produced by the microplasmas or can for example filter the output wavelengths of the microcavity plasma device array so as to transmit radiation only in specific spectral regions. The array includes a transparent layer such as a thin glass quartz or plastic layer. The discharge medium can be contained at or near atmospheric pressure permitting the use of a very thin glass or plastic layer because of the small pressure differential across the sealing layer . Polymeric vacuum packaging such as that used in the food industry to seal various food items may also be used in which case the layer will extend past the edge of 15 and would be sealed to another layer of the same material enclosing array from the bottom. Artisans will appreciate that well known vacuum and gas handling practices can be used to evacuate air from the sealed array and backfill the array with the desired gas gases vapor or mixture thereof. A vacuum connection not shown in can serve this purpose.

It is within each microcavity that a plasma discharge will be produced. The first and second electrodes are spaced apart a distance from each other by the respective thicknesses of their oxide layers. The oxide thereby isolates the first and second electrodes from one another and additionally isolates each electrode from the discharge medium plasma contained in the microcavities . This arrangement permits the application of a time varying AC RF bipolar or pulsed DC etc. potential between the electrodes to excite the gaseous or vapor medium to create a microplasma in each microcavity .

Artisans will also appreciate that the first electrode as seen in has utility apart from serving as the first electrode of microcavity plasma device arrays of the invention. Patterns of connections of electrodes buried in a metal oxide provided by the invention also have separate utility for example as interconnects wiring for an electronic device or system. An embodiment of the invention is wiring for an electronic device or system comprising a plurality of microcavities defined in a first metal oxide layer as seen in . Circumferential first metal electrodes are buried in the metal oxide layer and surround each of the plurality of microcavities . Interconnections buried in the first metal oxide layer connect two or more of the first electrodes. The interconnection of the first electrodes is according to a pattern.

In a preferred formation process of the invention a metal foil having a pattern of microcavities with the desired cross sectional geometry already present is obtained. The microcavities may extend partially or completely through the metal foil the latter is illustrated in A and B . A metal foil can have a pattern of microcavities produced in it by any of a variety of techniques including microdrilling laser micromachining chemical etching or mechanical punching. Foils with pre formed microcavities in the form of through holes of various shapes are available commercially.

The next step is to convert much of the metal foil into metal oxide by an anodization process. This process is controlled so as to result in self patterned first electrodes see which surround each microcavity. These metal rings around each microcavity buried in metal oxide can be connected in various patterns or a single interconnected electrode may be formed if desired. Through control of the parameters of the anodization process molar concentration temperature process times etc. the dimensions of the buried electrodes and interconnections if any can be varied and specified.

The method of formation is suitable for large scale processing and is inexpensive. Buried self patterned electrodes are formed automatically by anodization a wet chemical process. Consequently the process is inexpensive and ideally suited for processing large areas. Producing electrodes for an array by thin film deposition techniques is comparatively expensive. Therefore while minimizing the equivalent capacitance of a light emitting array is important to its high frequency electrical characteristics such as switching patterning the electrode by conventional deposition processes raises the cost of the array and the complexity of the fabrication process. With the formation method of the invention the electrode area can be reduced dramatically without adding complexity to the fabrication process.

Prototype arrays according to exemplary embodiments of the invention have been fabricated and tested. Specifically linear arrays of microcavity plasma devices have been realized by anodizing in oxalic acid an aluminum foil into which a pattern of cylindrical microcavities in the form of through holes has previously been formed. For these exemplary arrays the thickness of the Al foil is 127 m and the diameter and pitch center to center spacing of the circular holes are 250 m and 200 m respectively. Anodizing the foil in a 0.3 M solution of oxalic acid at 25 C. for 7 hours converts most of the aluminum foil to a nanoporous form of aluminum oxide AlO but leaves behind a patterned thin layer of Al that is buried in the AlO as shown in and . This patterned thin layer of Al is well suited as an electrode or a group of interconnected electrodes so as to form a single electrode to produce microplasmas in the cavities of . Stated another way the anodization process selectively converts Al into AlOsuch that if the anodization process is terminated at the appropriate time the remaining Al will serve as electrodes for individual microplasma devices in an array or as electrodes interconnecting some or all of the microcavities in a microcavity plasma device array. This is the process of forming the array electrode.

The ring structure of the circumferential electrodes formed by this process shown in cross section in A and B is the result of the dynamics of the anodization process near a microcavity in a metal foil or film. Some distance away from the microcavity anodization of a foil immersed in the anodization bath proceeds uniformly on each side of the foil e.g. an Al foil resulting in a thin Al sheet whose thickness decreases with anodization time encapsulated in a transparent AlOfilm whose thickness increases with processing time. Near the microcavity however the process proceeds differently because acid within the microcavity is also participating in anodization. Therefore in the vicinity of the perimeter of the microcavity anodization is moving inward from both sides of the foil but at the same time it is also proceeding outward away from the microcavity. However the conversion of Al into AlOis slower within the microcavities than outside i.e. on the surface because the flow of fresh acid into the small diameter channel microcavity is restricted. The result is the Al electrode is flared near the microcavity and an AlOlayer of thickness now lines the microcavity. Also the inner surface of the electrode the surface facing the microcavity is essentially parallel to the microcavity wall. Thus this process forms a ring electrode that is essentially equidistant from the microcavity wall.

The buried circumferential electrodes form automatically during the anodization process as a result of the flow of oxalic acid to the surface. The arrowhead cross sectional shape of the metal electrodes that surround the microcavities see e.g. A and B is produced by the nonuniform reaction rate of anodization near the microcavity. Away from the microcavity the conversion of the metal foil into metal oxide can proceed to near completion if desired but close to the microcavity more metal remains because the reaction rate falls near the microcavity owing to the restricted movement of acid into the microcavity as well as the slow removal of the chemical products of anodization from the microcavity . The result of this process is that self patterned electrodes buried in metal oxide are formed or more precisely left by the anodization process around the microcavities. It should be emphasized that these formed structures can be modified into various geometries with the implementation of a patterning process or selective anodization techniques such as those facilitated by masking .

In buried circumferential electrodes surrounding each microcavity include interconnections .form a single continuous electrode for the linear array of microcavities shown in . In a preferred embodiment interconnections are the result of the non separation or merged nature of adjacent circumferential electrodes around individual microcavities which can be used to connect small and large groups of microcavities to form for example addressable microcavity plasma device arrays. As described above with respect to preferred formation processes microcavity spacing and the duration and conditions of the anodizing process can leave interconnections as continuous with adjacent electrodes .

Experiments have also demonstrated that self patterned buried electrodes can be formed to electrically connect arrays of microcavities. A portion of a linear Al AlOarray of 250 m dia. microcavities for which the devices are interconnected is shown in . This photograph taken from above shows that on either side of the linear array Al was essentially completely converted into AlOwhich is transparent in the visible region. Also the buried Al rings around each microcavity which appear as white circles because the microcavity array is backlit in this photograph are clearly evident. When operated with 400 Torr of Ne for example the arrays of produce uniform glow discharges in each cavity. Operation at pressures up to approximately one atmosphere has been demonstrated to date and many gases in addition to Ne and vapors are well suited for these microplasma device arrays.

An addressable microcavity plasma device array embodiment of the invention is illustrated schematically in . In reference numbers from previous figures are used to label comparable parts. The first electrodes in are buried circumferential electrodes in the form of a ring around each microcavity. The electrodes are buried in and protected by a first layer of oxide . Interconnections connect linear arrays of electrodes and their respective microcavities . The second electrode comprises parallel line electrodes buried in an oxide layer . Electrodes can be formed by masking the desired regions of the second metal foil prior to anodization. In this way buried electrodes of the desired width are produced. By aligning line electrodes with rows and or columns of microcavities in the first layer of oxide microcavity devices in a linear or two dimensional array are formed which can be addressed individually.

In the electrodes are seen to have a different cross sectional shape than the buried circumferential electrodes . In preferred embodiment addressable arrays rows of microcavities are separated to avoid cross talk. The second electrodes in can be formed initially by the preferred methods described above for the formation of buried circumferential electrodes. A subsequent patterning process lithography can be used to create row spacings and for the extension of metal lines connecting electrodes around microcavities .

In other embodiments the oxide electrode layer and second oxide layer are kept sufficiently thin to permit the second electrodes to be sufficiently close to the microcavities to reduce significantly the voltage levels required for exciting the plasma. Since the electrodes of can be made proximate to the microcavities in the same layer it is not necessary for the electrode oxide layer to be thin. The embodiment of can also be fabricated from thicker metal foils which suffer from less bending or stress during the anodization process. Thus as the array size increases thicker foils reduce stresses in the array that arise during the anodization process used to convert metal to metal oxide.

As seen in the microcavities preferably have a tapered cross section. The tapered shape has advantages for the generation of plasma and serves in the embodiment to improve the extraction of light produced by the plasma from the microcavity. The tapered shape is achieved by wet chemical processes mechanical punching processes or other material removal processes.

Arrays of the invention have many applications. Addressable devices can be used as the basis for both large and small high definition displays with one or more microcavity plasma devices forming individual pixels or sub pixels in the display. Microcavity plasma devices in preferred embodiment arrays as discussed above can excite a phosphor to achieve full color displays over large areas. An application for a non addressable or addressable array is for example as the light source backlight unit for a liquid crystal display panel. Embodiments of the invention provide a lightweight thin and distributed source of light that is preferable to the current practice of using a fluorescent lamp as the backlight. Distributing the light from a localized lamp in a uniform manner over the entire liquid crystal display requires sophisticated optics. Non addressable arrays provide a lightweight source of light that can also serve as a flat lamp for general lighting purposes. Arrays of the invention also have application for example in sensing and detection equipment such as chromatography devices and for phototherapeutic treatments including photodynamic therapy . The latter include the treatment of psoriasis which requires ultraviolet light at 308 nm actinic keratosis and Bowen s disease or basal cell carcinoma. Inexpensive arrays sealed in glass or plastic now provide the opportunity for patients to be treated in a nonclinical setting i.e. at home and for disposal of the array following the completion of treatment. These arrays are also well suited for photocuring of polymers which requires ultraviolet radiation or as large area thin light panels for applications in which low level lighting is desired.

In addition to its application to interconnecting microplasma devices the formation method of the invention is applicable to generalized wiring and can be used for forming electrodes and interconnects for microelectronics and MEMs systems arrays of capacitors micro cooling devices and systems and printed circuit board PCB technologies.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

