---

title: Carbonate solvent for electrolytes in lithium and lithium ion cells
abstract: An electrochemical cell includes an anode composed of a salt, a cathode insulated from the anode and a non-aqueous electrolyte in contact with the anode. The electrolyte may include an organic solvent that comprises at least approximately one percent by volume trimethylene carbonate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08021791&OS=08021791&RS=08021791
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08021791
owner_city: Washingotn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070530
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. Patent Office application Ser. No. 10 768 746 entitled Carbonate Solvent For Electrolytes in Lithium And Lithium Ion Cell which was filed on Jan. 27 2004 by the inventors herein now abandoned. This Continuation in Part application is being filed under 35 USC 120 and 37 CFR 1.53 and priority from that application is hereby claimed.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment to us of any royalty thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates generally to electrolytes for electrochemical cells and more particularly to organic solvents used with non aqueous electrolytes.

Electrochemical cells such as lithium batteries may contain a non aqueous electrolyte that includes an organic solvent. Typically a supporting electrolyte such as lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF is dissolved in an organic solvent e.g. a high dielectric constant cyclic carbonate compound such as ethylene carbonate or propylene carbonate. Also various volume ratios of low viscosity ester solvents such as diethyl carbonate and dimethyl carbonate may be used to increase ion mobility and provide for a higher conductivity solvent mixture.

Prior art electrochemical cells with similar mixed solvent electrolytes have focused primarily on increasing lithium ion conductivity through the use of combinations of high dielectric constant solvents and low viscosity co solvents. However these prior art electrochemical cells suffer from degraded cell performance caused by the anode reducing the solvent and producing an insulating film from these reduction products. Whenever such an insulating film occurs the anode becomes electrochemically insulated and prevents lithium ions from migrating to the anode when a load is applied to the cell. Similar problems also occur when the solvent oxidizes and decomposes into products that deposit onto the cathode and also produce insulating layer that negates cell operation. Prior art lithium cells lack the ability to prevent formation of the insulating film and resulting electrode impedance.

One particular example of an organic solvent mixture for a battery electrolyte that sought to reduce internal resistance is U.S. Pat. No. 6 566 015. That patent describes a composition that includes at least one type of a cyclic carbonate compound an alkyl mono carbonate compound an alkylene bis carbonate compound a glycol diether compound and a phosphorous containing organic compound. The use of the gycol diether compound is said to lower the internal resistance of the battery as a result of increasing the mobility of lithium ions at the solid liquid interface. However it has been found that this composition suffers from the drawback that it is rather complex and difficult to produce.

Thus there has been a long felt need for a relatively simple organic solvent mixture for lithium batteries that provides for increased electrochemical cell performance properties including prevention of the deleterious insulating film with and an increased energy density output of the cell that does not suffer from the disadvantages limitations and shortcomings of prior art lithium batteries.

The present invention solves the long felt need for a simple organic solvent mixture for lithium batteries providing increased electrochemical cell performance that also prevents the formation of the unwanted and deleterious insulation caused by reduction and oxidation products on the anode and cathode by providing kinetically stable lithium ion selective passivation layers on the surface of the lithium or lithium ion interaction electrodes. Additionally these electrolytes must possess electrochemically stable voltage windows within the oxidation and reduction reaction voltage that occur at both the anode and cathode electrodes. Prior art organic solvent based electrolytes lack these two critical properties.

Despite the continuing focus on achieving increased electrolyte conductivity the prior art has not embraced the approach of providing stable solutions which possess both stable passivation layers at the electrodes and electrochemical voltage stability in the potential ranges of the electrode reactions. In limited instances where the passivation layer approach has been attempted and an electrolyte forms a stable passivation layer at the electrodes the resultant film morphology is solvent dependent and seriously degraded cell performance if the aestivation layer impedance increases to a degree which results in an insulating effect on the electrode thereby degrading cell rate and low temperature performance. Thus there has been a long felt need for electrolyte solutions for lithium and lithium ion cells that form a stable passivation layer that is not too thick and does not suffer from any of the shortcomings disadvantages and limitations of prior art lithium batteries.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention an electrochemical cell comprises an anode and a cathode where the anode and cathode are electrically separated from each other in an electrolyte comprised of a salt and a non aqueous solvent. The electrolyte may comprise an organic solvent that comprises at least approximately one percent by volume trimethylene carbonate.

In a more particular embodiment of the invention the organic solvent may comprise a volume percentage of trimethylene carbonate that is greater than approximately 35 .

In another embodiment the organic solvent may further comprise dimethyl carbonate having a volume percentage that is in the range of between approximately 99 and approximately 1 .

In another particular embodiment of the invention the organic solvent comprises a volume ratio of 1 1 of trimethylene carbonate and dimethyl carbonate.

In a further particular embodiment the organic solvent may further comprise at least one material selected from the group consisting of ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate.

In still a further particular embodiment the salt may comprise at least one material from the group consisting of LiPF LiAsF LiClO LiC SOCF lithium triflates lithium imides and lithium methides. All embodiments of the solvents of the present invention overcome the prior art s insulating film problems shortcomings and difficulties with the key trimethylene carbonate solvent that advantageously provides high dielectric properties for electrolyte conductivity and the critical properties of electrochemical stability to reduction and oxidation over the electrochemical cell voltage range. This invention provides for the formation of a stable passivation film upon the surface of the anode and cathode during electrochemical reduction and oxidation that allows lithium ion intercalation of the anode and cathode and provides kinetic stability of the electrolyte from further reduction and oxidation during cell charging and discharging operation.

One embodiment of the present invention concerns an electrochemical cell or rechargeable non rechargeable battery that includes a cyclic organic solvent for a non aqueous electrolyte. The organic solvent may comprise trimethylene carbonate CHO that has a relatively high dielectric constant. It has been found that an especially high energy density output may be attained from a battery containing a non aqueous electrolyte with such an organic solvent.

Referring now to an electrochemical cell comprising a non aqueous electrolyte in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated generally at . In this embodiment the electrochemical cell or battery comprises a negative electrode case and a positive electrode case that are interconnected by an insulating gasket composed of e.g. polypropylene. It will be recognized that the battery is shown for illustrational purposes only and e.g. may be rechargeable or non rechargeable and may function as a primary or secondary cell in accordance with the present invention.

The negative electrode case may be composed of a stainless steel and is in contact with a cathode that comprises a negative collector and a negative charge body . The negative collector may be composed of copper and the negative charge body may be composed of carbon powder.

The positive electrode case similar to the negative electrode case may also be formed of a stainless steel and is in contact with an anode that comprises a positive collector and a positive charge body . The positive collector may be composed of aluminum and the positive charge body may be composed of a lithium compound such as LiCoO.

A separator composed of an insulating material may be disposed between the cathode and the anode and a non aqueous electrolyte as described in more detail below may be located in contact with the positive electrode.

The electrolyte comprises a lithium salt and is preferably lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF although other lithium salts may be used such as but not limited to LiPF LiAsF LiClO LiC SOCF lithium triflates lithium imides and lithium methides. It will be appreciated that other lithium compounds including lithium ions lithium alloys and lithium polymers may be employed in accordance with the present invention.

In accordance with a feature of this embodiment the electrolyte also comprises an organic solvent that is preferably trimethylene carbonate CHO the chemical structure and formula of which are shown generally at in . The organic solvent may comprise a volume percentage of trimethylene carbonate that is at least 1 and may be greater than 35 . The solvent properties of trimethylene carbonate are shown in the following Table.

It will be understood that the electrolyte may also comprise an organic solvent mixture comprising trimethylene carbonate and one or more other organic solvents. For example it has been found that a solvent mixture of trimethylene carbonate and dimethyl carbonate in a 1 1 volume ratio is most preferable although other ratios are contemplated. When employed in a solvent mixture the volume percentage of dimethyl carbonate may range between approximately 99 and approximately 1 . Solvents that may be combined with trimethylene carbonate in the practice of the present invention include but are not limited to ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate dimethyl carbonate diethyl carbonate and ethyl methyl carbonate.

One of this invention s critical features is that the non aqueous electrolyte that contacts the positive electrode and of particular interest is the ability of electrolyte to form a passive film on the cathode and anode in lithium and lithium ion cells. By including the key trimethylene carbonate solvent in the electrolyte the present invention solves the prior art disadvantages shortcomings and limitations caused by the lack of reduction and oxidation and voltage stability and the formation of a stable cathode and anode passivation film of electrolytes used in lithium and lithium ion batteries.

The present invention advantageously provides much needed electrochemical stability to allow the solvent s use with a lithium ion intercalating anode and cathode. The trimethylene carbonate solvent produces a stable solid electrolyte interface SEI layer not shown in the drawings at the lithium intercalating anode surface which would only allow lithium ions to diffuse through to the anode. These passivation films form during the initial charge or discharge of the cell in which the electrolyte solutions form reduction products upon the surface of the anode and oxidation products upon the cathode which allow for migration of lithium ions through the film but provide electrochemical protection for the electrolyte from further electrochemical decomposition. These passivation film layers therefore provide kinetic stability to the electrodes.

This SEI layer is needed to protect the anode from reducing the solvent and thereby avoid producing an insulating film which forms from these reduction products on the anode. In prior art lithium batteries the insulating film the anode becomes electrochemically insulated and prevents lithium ions from migrating to the anode and thus prevents electron transfer while the cathode can suffer from oxidation products that form a similar insulating film. These two electrochemical processes have been discovered through electrochemical experimentation and are not readily predictable. In accordance with the present invention other beneficial characteristics of the use of trimethylene carbonate in an electrolyte include the wide voltage stability range it provides to allow the use of high voltage cell couples typically used for lithium and lithium ion cells and high ionic conductivity of the electrolyte solution over a wide temperature range.

The type of film that forms is directly dependant upon the choice of solvents and salt that is used. For lithium ion cells where graphite and carbon anodes are used the need for a solvent in which the reduction reaction produces a lithium carbonate passivation based layer is preferred. The ethylene carbonate solvent will produce for example a reduction passivation film on graphite which has the formula CHOCOLi . However not all cyclic ester solvents similar to ethylene carbonate will produce such desirable films such as the case where propylene carbonate does not produce a stable carbonate passivation film on graphite and instead results in the exfoliation of the electrode during the reduction reaction.

Referring now to the conductivity versus temperature C. for two example non aqueous electrolyte solutions are shown. In a first example a one mole liter salt solution of lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF is mixed with trimethylene carbonate having a solvent volume percentage of 100 and in a second example a one mole liter solution of lithium hexafluorophosphate LiPF is mixed with 1 1 volume ratio binary mixture of trimethylene carbonate and dimethyl carbonate the latter having a solvent volume percentage of 50 .

While the present invention has been described in connection with what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to these herein disclosed embodiments. Rather the present invention is intended to cover all of the various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

