---

title: Oral care regimen
abstract: The invention includes methods of cleaning an oral surface, maintaining oral health and/or increasing oral health. Such methods encompass contacting an oral surface with a primary oral care composition at least once daily, and contacting the oral surface with a periodic oral care composition at least once within a period of about 42 days. The periodic oral care compositions suitable for use in the method comprise a first abrasive having an Einlehner hardness of greater than about 5 mg loss per 100,000 revolutions and a second abrasive having an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100,000 revolutions. In the periodic oral care compositions, the ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive is about 1:1.6 to about 1.6:1. The periodic oral care compositions are characterized by a pellicle cleaning ratio of greater than about 100 and a radioactive dentin abrasion of less than about 200. Additionally or alternatively, the methods may include those where the second abrasive comprises silica and has an oil of absorption of greater than about 90 cm/100 g and/or an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100,000 revolutions. The ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive may be about 1:1.6 to about 1.6:1. The total amount of the first and second abrasives present in the oral composition may be greater than about 25% by weight of the composition and/or the oral composition has a pellicle cleaning ratio of greater than about 100 and a radioactive dentin abrasion of less than about 200.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08501161&OS=08501161&RS=08501161
owner: Colgate-Palmolive Company
number: 08501161
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070507
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 798 940 filed May 9 2006 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Consumers report perceptions of refreshment contentment cleanliness and general well being similar to those experienced post spa or beauty treatment after a professional teeth cleaning carried out by a dentist or hygienist. Thus there is a need in the art for an at home oral care regiment that permits consumers to re create the extra clean mouth feel and associated sense of well being experienced after a professional teeth cleaning.

The invention includes methods of cleaning an oral surface maintaining oral health and or increasing oral health. Such methods encompass contacting an oral surface with a primary oral care composition at least once daily and contacting the oral surface with a periodic oral care composition at least once within a period of about 42 days. The periodic oral care compositions suitable for use in the method comprise a first abrasive having an Einlehner hardness of greater than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions and a second abrasive having an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions. In the periodic oral care compositions the ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive is about 1 1.6 to about 1.6 1. The periodic oral care compositions are characterized by a pellicle cleaning ratio of greater than about 100 and a radioactive dentin abrasion of less than about 200. Additionally or alternatively the methods may include those where the second abrasive comprises silica and has an oil of absorption of greater than about 90 cm 100 g and or an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions. The ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive may be about 1 1.6 to about 1.6 1. The total amount of the first and second abrasives present in the oral composition may be greater than about 25 by weight of the composition and or the oral composition has a pellicle cleaning ratio of greater than about 100 and a radioactive dentin abrasion of less than about 200.

The invention provides a regimen method of cleaning an oral surface to remove for example bacteria food particles biofilm plaque and or other agents that may result in or contribute to various oral conditions such as bad breath poor oral health gingivitis gum inflammation or periodontitis. The regimen method of the invention also provides the user with a smooth polished feel and appearance to the tooth surfaces that may be perceived as comparable to the clean feel experienced after a professional cleaning. Methods of maintaining oral health and or increasing oral health are also provided.

The invention is an oral care regimen that includes contacting an oral surface with at least two oral care compositions at differing time increments. The oral surface to be treated includes any within the oral cavity. Exemplary surfaces include hard tissues e.g. teeth and soft surfaces e.g. gingiva and tongue .

One of the oral care compositions used in the regimen method of the invention is a primary oral care composition. The primary oral care composition may be any known or to be developed in the art and can take any form. For example the primary oral care composition may be in the form of a rinse paste gel fluid suspension film patch gum lozenge confectionary or semi solid pates or stick. The primary oral care composition may be a conventional toothpaste such as those as those sold under the COLGATE trademark Colgate Palmolive Company New York N.Y. or under the CREST trademark Procter Gamble Corporation Cincinnati Ohio . Alternatively the primary oral care composition may be any of those described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 721 614 4 894 220 4 986 981 5 037 635 5 156 835 5 288 480 5 344 641 5 538 715 5 776 435 and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2004 0126332 2004 0136924 2005 0019273 2005 0271601 and 2005 0271602 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The primary oral care composition may contain one or more agents such as humectants solvents thickeners surfactants abrasives flavorants colorants viscosity and or rheology modifiers gums polymers sweeteners etc. Examples of agents that may be present in the primary oral care composition include an antibacterial agent a plaque dispersion agent an antiadhesion agent an anticaries agent a desensitizing agent a flavorant a colorant a stannous ion agent triclosan triclosan monophosphate chlorhexidine alexidine hexetidine sanguinarine benzalkonium chloride salicylanilide domiphen bromide cetylpyridinium chloride tetradecylpyridinium chloride N tetradecyl 4 ethylpyridinium chloride octenidine delmopinol octapinol nisin zinc ion agent copper ion agent essential oils furanones bacteriocins ethyl lauroyl arginate extracts of magnolia a metal ion source arginine bicarbonate honokiol magonol ursolic acid ursic acid morin extract of sea buckthorn a peroxide an enzyme a Camellin extract a flavonoid a flavan halogenated diphenyl ether creatine and or propolis.

In the practice of the methods of the invention the primary oral care composition may be applied or contacted to the oral surface at least once daily. In some embodiments the application of the primary oral care composition may be carried out two three four five six seven times daily or up to fifteen times daily.

The oral surface may be contacted to the primary oral care composition using any means known or to be developed in the art such means may vary depending on the form of the primary oral care composition. Exemplary means of contacting the primary oral care composition to the oral surface include application using an implement such as a brush toothbrush stick sponge cotton swab lavage chewing adjacent placement and dissolution of confectionary.

Another of the oral care composition used in the methods of the invention is a periodic oral care composition. The periodic oral care composition has a Pellicle Cleaning Ratio PCR of greater than 100 while having a Radiotracer Dentin Abrasion RDA of less than 200. In certain embodiments the RDA is less than or equal to about 175 while still having a PCR that exceeds about 100. In some embodiments the RDA is less than 165. Methods of performing PCR and RDA are described in e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 939 051 and 6 290 933 both of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties. 

The periodic oral care composition includes a first abrasive and a second abrasive such abrasives are described in U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 752 340 filed Dec. 21 2005 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In certain embodiments the periodic oral composition comprises a first abrasive having an Einlehner hardness of greater than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions and a second abrasive having an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions. The first particle having an Einlehner hardness of greater than 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions has a primary a polishing function when it is contacted with an oral surface. The second particle having an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions has a primary cleaning function as it is a softer particle. In certain embodiments the second particle has a hardness of greater than about 10 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions and in other embodiments greater than about 15 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions.

The first abrasive of the periodic oral care composition may be of a cleaning abrasive that has a hardness of less than or equal to the oral surface to be treated and the second abrasive is a polishing abrasive that has a hardness of greater than or equal to the oral surface to be treated.

Each of the first abrasive and second abrasive of the periodic oral care composition has a particle size. In certain embodiments the first particle size is less than the second particle size. Mean particle size can be measured e.g. using a Malvern Particle Size Analyzer Model Mastersizer S Malvern Instruments Inc. of Southborough Mass. U.S.A.

In certain embodiments the first abrasive has a mean particle size of less than about 11 m preferably less than about 10 m. For example examples of suitable abrasives have mean particle sizes ranging from about 7 m to 11 m. Some abrasives have particle sizes of less than 5 m. In other embodiments the second abrasive has a mean particle size of greater than about 8 m preferably greater than about 10 m. In some embodiments the second abrasive can have a mean particle size of about 8 m to about 14 m.

Any orally or cosmetically acceptable abrasive fulfilling the requirements set forth above can be selected for use in the periodic oral care composition. Suitable abrasives include without limitation silica silicate silicon alumina including calcined aluminum oxide aluminosilicates such as bentonite zeolite kaolin and mica siliceous or diatomaceous earth pumice calcium carbonate cuttlebone insoluble phosphates composite resins such as melamine resin phenolic resin and urea formaldehyde resin polycarbonate silicon carbide boron carbide microcrystalline wax microcrystalline cellulose including combinations of colloidal microcrystalline cellulose and carboxymethylcellulose commercially available under the trade name AVICEL from FMC Biopolymer of Philadelphia Pa. U.S.A and combinations and derivatives of all of the above. By mica it is meant any one of a group of hydrous aluminum silicate minerals with plate morphology and perfect basal micaceous cleavage. Mica can be for example sheet mica scrap mica or flake mica as exemplified by muscovite biotite or phlogopite type micas. Among insoluble phosphates useful as abrasives are orthophosphates polymetaphosphates and pyrophosphates. Illustrative examples are dicalcium orthophosphate dihydrate dicalcium phosphate dihydrate calcium hydrogen phosphate calcium pyrophosphate P calcium pyrophosphate tricalcium phosphate calcium metaphosphate potassium metaphosphate and sodium metaphosphate.

Synthetic silicas include both silica gels and precipitated silicas which may be prepared for example by the neutralization of aqueous silicate solutions with a strong mineral acid. In the preparation of silica gel a silica hydrogel is formed which is then typically washed to low salt content. The washed hydrogel may be milled to the desired size or otherwise dried ultimately to the point where its structure no longer changes as a result of shrinkage. When preparing such synthetic silicas the objective is to obtain abrasives which provide maximal cleaning i.e. removal of stained pellicle with minimal damage to the tooth enamel and other oral tissue

Useful abrasive materials for preparing the periodic oral compositions include high cleaning low structure silica abrasives such as those marketed under the trade designation SYLODENT XWA or SYLODENT 783 by Davison Chemical Division of W. R. Grace Co. of Baltimore Md. SYLODENT XWA 650 is a silica hydrogel composed of particles of colloidal silica. Exemplary silica hydrogels comprise colloidal particles of silica having an average particle size of about 3 m to about 12 m and more preferably between about 5 m to about 10 m with a pH range from 4 to 10 preferably 6 to 9 when measured as a 5 by weight slurry. The particles of the XWA 650 contain about 10 to about 35 by weight water have a mean particle size of about 5 m to about 12 m an Einlehner hardness of from greater than or equal to about 5 to about 20 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions an oil absorption of less than 90 cm 100 g for example from between about 40 cm 100 g to about 90 cm 100 g. The abrasives have a Brunauer Emmett and Teller BET surface area from 100 to 700 m g. XWA 650 has a brightness of 96.8 technidyne. Such abrasives are disclosed in e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 290 933 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Another high cleaning silica abrasive that can be included in the periodic composition is marketed as SYLODENT XWA 300 and is a silica hydrogel containing about 10 to about 25 water by weight where the mean particles size is about 2 m to about 4 m. The particles have BET surface are in the range of 150 to 400 m g of silica. The XWA 300 abrasive has an oil absorption of less than 90 cm 100 g silica and a pH in a 5 w w suspension in boiled COfree demineralized water equal to or greater than 8.5. Such abrasives are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 939 051 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Another suitable high cleaning silica that can be included in the periodic composition comprises a silica product where the particles are about 5 to about 35 by weight water having a mean particle size of about 7 m to about 11 m an Einlehner hardness of from 12 to about 19 an oil absorption value of about 50 cm 100 g to about 65 cm 100 g. A BET surface area is about 100 to about 700 m g of silica. The brightness is generally reported to be greater than about 95 technidyne. Such a silica product is commercially available as ZEODENT 105 from J. M. Huber of Havre de Grace Maryland U.S.A.

Other abrasives that can be used include typical cleaning silica abrasives such as precipitated silicas having a mean particle size of up to about 20 m typically at about 8 to about 14 m with an oil absorption structure of greater than about 90 to about 110 cm 100 g such as ZEODENT 115 marketed by J. M. Huber that has a pH at 5 of the particles of about 6.5 7.5 and an Einlehner hardness of about 2 to 4 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions. The brightness of such a silica particle is greater than about 95. Such cleaning abrasives comprise the second abrasive of the oral composition in certain embodiments.

In embodiments where the dentifrice is a clear or transparent gel an abrasive of colloidal silica such as those sold under the trademark SYLOID as SYLOID 72 and SYLOID 74 or under the trademark SANTOCEL 100 alkali metal alumina silicate complexes are particularly useful since they have refractive indices close to the refractive indices of gelling agent liquid including water and or humectant systems commonly used in dentifrices.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention a first and a second abrasive are combined in the periodic composition to provide cleaning capability mildness relatively low abrasivity and aesthetically acceptable periodic care compositions. In various embodiments an amount of the first abrasive to the second abrasive can be expressed by a ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive ranging from about 1 1.6 to about 1.6 1. For example a ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive is about 1 1. The respective amounts of the first abrasive and the second abrasive present in an oral composition may be about 13 to about 21 by weight of the oral composition.

In some embodiments the amount of the first abrasive is about 15 to about 19 and the amount of the second abrasive is about 15 to about 19 by weight of the oral composition. In certain preferred embodiments the first abrasive is present at about 17 by weight and the second abrasive is present at about 17 by weight of the oral composition. Thus in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention the total amount of abrasive in the periodic oral care composition including the first and second abrasive is preferably greater than about 25 even more preferably greater than about 30 and in some embodiments greater than about 35 by total weight of the periodic oral care composition.

In some embodiments the periodic oral composition comprises a first abrasive having an Einlehner hardness of greater than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions and a second abrasive having an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions. A ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive ranges from about 1 1.6 to about 1.6 1. Further the periodic oral composition has a PCR of greater than about 100 and an RDA of less than about 200. In certain embodiments the RDA is less than about 175. In certain embodiments the first abrasive has an oil of absorption of less than about 90 cm 100 g and the second abrasive has an oil of absorption of greater than about 90 cm 100 g. In some embodiments the ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive is about 1 1. The total amount of the abrasives including both the first and the second abrasives is greater than about 30 . The first abrasive and the second abrasive are optionally present at about 17 each respectively. In some embodiments the first and second abrasives are respectively present in an amount of about 15 to about 19 by weight of the total periodic oral care composition. The first and second abrasives optionally comprise silica.

In certain embodiments the periodic oral composition comprises a first abrasive comprising silica having an Einlehner hardness of greater than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions and an oil of absorption of less than about 90 cm 100 g. The periodic oral composition further comprises a second abrasive comprising silica having an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions and an oil of absorption of greater than about 90 cm 100 g. The first abrasive is present at an amount of about 13 to about 21 by weight likewise the second abrasive is present in an amount of about 13 to about 21 by weight of the composition. In some embodiments the first abrasive and the second abrasive are respectively present at about 15 to about 19 by weight of the periodic oral composition. In certain embodiments the first and second abrasives are respectively present in an amount of about 17 by weight of the oral composition. The PCR is preferably greater than 100 and the RDA is preferably less than 200 and in certain embodiments less than about 175. A total amount of the first and second abrasive present in the oral composition are preferably greater than about 25 even more preferably greater than about 30 .

In certain embodiments the periodic oral composition comprises a first abrasive comprising silica and having an oil of absorption of less than about 90 cm 100 g and an Einlehner hardness of greater than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions. The periodic oral composition further comprises a second abrasive comprising silica and having an oil of absorption of greater than about 90 cm 100 g and an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions. A ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive is about 1 1.6 to about 1.6 1. Further a total amount of the first and second abrasives present in the oral composition is greater than about 25 by weight of the composition.

In certain embodiments the periodic oral composition has a ratio of the first abrasive to the second abrasive that ranges from about 1 1.6 to about 1.6 1. In particular embodiments the active ingredient comprises a non ionic antibacterial ingredient such as a halogenated diphenyl ether like triclosan which will be discussed in more detail below. In some embodiments the first abrasive has an oil of absorption of less than about 90 cm 100 g and an Einlehner hardness of greater than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions and the second abrasive has an oil of absorption of greater than about 90 cm 100 g and an Einlehner hardness of less than about 5 mg loss per 100 000 revolutions.

The periodic oral care compositions described herein both the primary and the periodic may comprise an orally acceptable carrier. Conventional ingredients that can be used to form the carriers for oral care compositions are well known to the skilled artisan. The carrier can be a liquid semi solid or solid phase. Oral compositions can be in the form of a dentifrice including toothpastes toothpowders and prophylaxis pastes confectioneries including gums beads and chews film paint on gels or any other form known to one of skill in the art where abrasives are employed. Selection of specific carrier components is dependant on the desired product form.

In certain preferred embodiments the composition s are independently in the form of a dentifrice where an exemplary carrier is substantially semi solid or solid. The carrier can be aqueous in which case the carrier preferably comprises about 5 to about 95 water. In other embodiments the carrier is substantially non aqueous. The carrier optionally comprises for example oral care active ingredients surface active agents such as surfactants emulsifiers and foam modulators viscosity modifiers and thickeners humectants diluents fillers additional pH modifying agents colorants preservatives solvents and combinations thereof. It is understood that while general attributes of each of the above categories of materials may differ there may be some common attributes and any given material may serve multiple purposes within two or more of such categories of materials. As recognized by one of skill in the art the oral composition s optionally include other materials in addition to those components previously described including for example emollients moisturizers mouth feel agents and the like. Examples of suitable carriers for oral compositions are disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 669 929 6 379 654 and 4 894 220 the content of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The oral care active ingredients include for example anti bacterial active agents anti tartar agents anti caries agents anti inflammatory agents anti sensitivity agents enzymes nutrients and the like. Active agents among those useful herein are also disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 290 933 and 6 685 921 the contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Any suitable fluoride ion source may be present in either or both of the oral composition s such as those recited in U.S. Pat. No. 5 080 887 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Sources of fluoride ions acid phosphatases and pyrophosphatase enzyme inhibitors are well known in the art as anti caries agents. Examples of such sources are inorganic metal and or ammonium fluoride salts and compounds such as for example sodium fluoride potassium fluoride ammonium fluoride calcium fluoride a copper fluoride such as cuprous fluoride zinc fluoride barium fluoride sodium silicafluoride ammonium fluorosilicate sodium fluorozirconate and sodium monofluorophosphate aluminum mono and di fluorophosphate and fluorinated sodium calcium pyrophosphate. The fluoride source can also be an amine fluoride such as olaflur N octadecyltrimethylendiamine N N N tris 2 ethanol dihydrofluoride . Sodium fluoride amine fluoride stannous fluoride sodium monofluorophosphate MFP and mixtures thereof are preferred.

Either or both oral composition s optionally comprise an anticalculus component such as one or more of the anti calculus components recited in U.S. Pat. No. 5 292 526 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. In various embodiments the anti calculus component includes one or more polyphosphates. The anti calculus composition can include at least one wholly or partially neutralized alkali metal or ammonium tripolyphosphate or hexametaphosphate salt present in the oral composition at an effective anti calculus amount. The anti calculus component can also include at least one water soluble linear molecularly dehydrated polyphosphate salt effective in an anticalculus amount. The anti calculus component can also include a mixture of potassium and sodium salts at least one of which is present in an effective anti calculus amount as a polyphosphate anti calculus agent. Other useful anticalculus agents include polycarboxylate polymers and polyvinyl methyl ether maleic anhydride PVM MA copolymers such as GANTREZ .

All other substances or molecules known to be useful in oral care compositions may be included in either or both of the daily or the periodic compositions. For example such additional molecules may include antibacterial agents antiplaque agents desensitizing agents anti inflammation agents colorants thickeners flavorants surfactants abrasives anti adhesion agents an anti caries agent a sensate and or vitamins.

Other components that may be added to either or both composition include a stannous ion agent triclosan triclosan monophosphate chlorhexidine alexidine hexetidine sanguinarine benzalkonium chloride salicylanilide domiphen bromide cetylpyridinium chloride CPC tetradecylpyridinium chloride TPC N tetradecyl 4 ethylpyridinium chloride TDEPC octenidine delmopinol octapinol nisin zinc ion agent copper ion agent essential oils furanones bacteriocins ethyl lauroyl arginate extracts of magnolia a metal ion source arginine bicarbonate honokiol magonol ursolic acid ursic acid morin extract of sea buckthorn a peroxide an enzyme a Camellia extract a flavonoid a flavan halogenated diphenyl ether creatine and propolis.

