---

title: Limited-use browser and security system
abstract: A limited-use browser and related security system control access to content stored on a server computer linked to a network. The security system secures the content on the server and only permits it to be downloaded to a client computer running the limited-use browser or a general purpose browser executing an add-in security module providing the same functions as the limited-user browser. The limited-use browser or module secures the downloaded content on the client computer and displays it in a “view-only” mode. While the secured content is being displayed, menu selections, key combination, or pointing device commands initiated on the client computer that would modify the content or create a copy of another medium are either disabled as a default or monitored to determine if the action is permitted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08024227&OS=08024227&RS=08024227
owner: Kualo Properties AU, LLC
number: 08024227
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070501
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 745 395 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 157 entitled LIMITED USE BROWSER SECURITY SYSTEM filed on Dec. 21 2000 which is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 393 405 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 130 831 entitled LIMITED USE BROWSER SECURITY SYSTEM filed on Sep. 10 1999 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 119 309 entitled VIEW ONLY WEB BROWSER AND SECURITY SYSTEM filed Feb. 8 1999.

This invention relates generally to Internet browsers and servers and more particularly to a method and apparatus for a limited use browser and or add in security component and security system. Businesses and individuals currently use public networks such as the Internet and World Wide Web to distribute large amounts of information or content to many users allover the globe. Once this content is distributed over the web the publisher and or owner has virtually no control of its redistribution or use. The issue of controlling web content is very important to businesses because most web sites contain at least some content that is considered proprietary. The current lack of control of web content publishing involves a high degree of risk for intellectual property and may prevent publication altogether. Web users typically compromise the security of web content using any of the methods given below.

1. Copy and paste method. The user selects an image or text and chooses Copy from the Edit menu or alternately presses Control C or any other keys that perform a copy function and pastes the image or text into an application which allows saving.

2. Print method. The user prints text or images which can then be photocopied or re digitized via scanning technology.

3. Print Screen method. The user copies the screen into the common memory or clipboard used for inter application communication and saves it as an image file. If the user simply intends to obtain text the user then runs the captured image through an optical character recognition OCR application to output converted text.

4. Source method. The user views and or saves the hyper text markup language HTML source code of the web page then recreates and saves the original content.

6. Save Method. The user simply chooses the save function and saves the content to the local machine.

Known solutions to the problem of maintaining control of web content generally fall into two categories. The first category relates to systems for marking and tracking image files. Such systems typically implement a digital watermark . A digital watermark is typically a small piece of source code that is embedded into an image that enables the owner of the image to track its distribution over the web using specialized software. This tracking solution still provides very little control over how the content is actually distributed and is directed more toward providing some legal recourse once the content is already stolen.

The second category relates to large proprietary secure information distribution systems which typically do not currently use common web browsers or the web in general. These proprietary systems use specific applications for allowing different levels of user control of certain documents. These specialized systems are usually found inside large corporations and they tend to be very costly and are generally not accessed by users of the web. Neither solution provides control of web content. Large organizations can use internal intranets local area networks LANs or wide area networks WANs for distribution of information that pose the same problems as those described above for public networks such as the Internet.

Therefore there is a need for an easy and efficient way to provide controlled access to content and to control the distribution of content over a network in a manner that prevents unauthorized duplication.

The above mentioned shortcomings disadvantages and problems are addressed by the present invention which will be understood by reading and studying the following specification.

A limited use browser and related security system control access to content stored on a server computer linked to a network. The security system secures the content on the server and only permits it to be downloaded to a client computer running the limited use browser or a general purpose browser executing an add in security module providing the same functions as the limited use browser. The limited use browser or module secures the downloaded content on the client computer and displays it in a view only mode. In one embodiment all forms of non ephemeral reproduction e.g. printing saving to disk etc. are disabled. While the secured content is being displayed menu selections key combination or pointing device commands initiated on the client computer that would modify the content or create a copy on another medium are either disabled by default or monitored to determine if the action is permitted. The protected content can be displayed in a window within the browser frame or in a separate window having a special control set. Any format that can be displayed via the Internet can be secured in the view only mode. Other functionality includes the ability to secure in view only mode non web enabled files.

A limited use web browser and related security system allows providers of text and images or other content to publish content on a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN such as the World Wide Web web and the Internet while safeguarding their intellectual property against theft distribution or resale by unauthorized organizations or individuals by controlling use of the content. The limited use web browser add in security module of the present invention reads and displays any viewable web content including text images and streaming audio and video just as with a normal web browser but limits the user to an ephemeral only view of the information such as displaying text images or video on a computer monitor or providing other ephemeral output such as audio through a sound card and speakers attached to the computer.

The present invention describes systems clients servers methods and computer readable media of varying scope. In addition to the aspects and advantages of the present invention described in this summary further aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent by reference to the drawings and by reading the detailed description that follows.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to a number of embodiments thereof it will be recognized by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

In the following description of an embodiment reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration a specific embodiment in which the present invention can be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments can be utilized and structural changes can be made without departing from the scope of the invention. An embodiment of the disclosed technology described below enables a remote computer system user to execute a software application on a network file server.

A limited use web browser and related security system allows providers of text and images or other content to publish content on a local area network LAN or wide area network WAN such as the World Wide Web web and the Internet while safeguarding their intellectual property against theft distribution or resale by unauthorized organizations or individuals by controlling use of the content. The invention can be implemented as a stand alone web browser or as an add in security module such as a plug in or control to be embedded into any existing web browser including general purpose browsers such as Microsoft s Internet Explorer and Netscape s Navigator or proprietary browsers such as that provided by America Online for its subscribers. The protected content can be displayed in a window within the browser frame or in a separate window having a special control set.

A web or Internet browser is a typically a software program having a graphical user interface GUI that provides information including text images video or audio received from a remote source such as a LAN or WAN server. In combination with a windowing operating system such as Windows 95. Windows 98 Windows NT Macintosh System 8.0 or X Windows running under UNIX a standard web browser provides general data functions including file saving file copying printing copying and pasting data to and from a shared application memory commonly referred to as a clipboard and screen capturing or printing. The limited use web browser add in security module of the present invention reads and displays any viewable web content including text images and streaming audio and video just as with a normal web browser but limits the user to an ephemeral only view of the information such as displaying text images or video on a computer monitor or providing other ephemeral output such as audio through a sound card and speakers attached to the computer. Ephemeral output including view only output is visual or audio output that cannot be electronically reproduced or otherwise communicated by a computer system.

Any format that can be displayed via the Internet such as web graphics common gateway interface CGI scripts JAVA scripts can be secured in a view only mode including hyper text markup language HTML files Adobe Acrobat PDF files ActiveX controls and Microsoft Rich Text Format RTF components. Other functionality includes the ability to secure in view only mode non web based files such as Microsoft Office Excel Word and PowerPoint files. The term document is used to refer in general all such content in addition to its common usage with regard to a text file and one of skill in the art will readily discern the proper meaning based on the context in which the term is used. Furthermore the terms provider content provider publisher and author are used to refer to the owner of such content or to an entity which is authorized to control such content while the term vendor is used to refer to the developer of the limited use browser and security system of the present invention.

The present description is divided into five sections. The first section describes one embodiment of an operating environment in conjunction with which embodiments of the invention may be practiced and presents various business models enabled by the invention. The second section provides a system overview of one embodiment of the invention. The third section describes methods performed by the embodiments of the invention in the overview section. The fourth section discloses a particular implementation of the invention. The fifth section presents a conclusion for the detailed description.

The following description of is intended to provide an overview of computer hardware and other operating components suitable for implementing the invention but is not intended to limit the applicable environments. One of skill in the art will immediately appreciate that the invention can be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network.

The web server is typically at least one computer system which operates as a server computer system and is configured to operate with the protocols of the World Wide Web and is coupled to the Internet. Optionally the web server can be part of an ISP which provides access to the Internet for client systems. The web server is shown coupled to the server computer system which itself is coupled to web content which can be considered a form of a media database. It will be appreciated that while two computer systems and are shown in the web server system and the server computer system can be one computer system having different software components providing the web server functionality and the server functionality provided by the server computer system which will be described further below.

Client computer systems and can each with the appropriate web browsing software view HTML pages provided by the web server . The ISP provides Internet connectivity to the client computer system through the modem interface which can be considered part of the client computer system . The client computer system can be a personal computer system a network computer a Web TV system a mobile phone e.g. a cellular telephone having a processing system or other such computer system. Similarly the ISP provides Internet connectivity for client systems and although as shown in the connections are not the same for these three computer systems. Client computer system is coupled through a modem interface while client computer systems and are part of a LAN. While shows the interfaces and as generically as modem it will be appreciated that each of these interfaces can be an analog modem ISDN modem cable modem satellite transmission interface e.g. Direct PC or other interfaces for coupling a computer system to other computer systems. Client computer systems and are coupled to a LAN bus through network interfaces and which can be Ethernet network or other network interfaces. The LAN bus is also coupled to a gateway computer system which can provide firewall and other Internet related services for the local area network. This gateway computer system is coupled to the ISP to provide Internet connectivity to the client computer systems and . The gateway computer system can be a conventional server computer system. Also the web server system can be a conventional server computer system.

It will be appreciated that the computer system is one example of many possible computer systems which have different architectures. For example personal computers based on an Intel microprocessor often have multiple buses one of which can be considered to be a peripheral bus. Network computers are another type of computer system that can be used with the present invention. Network computers do not usually include a hard disk or other mass storage and the executable programs are loaded from a network connection into the memory for execution by the processor . A Web TV system which is known in the art is also considered to be a computer system according to the present invention but it may lack some of the features shown in such as certain input or output devices. A typical computer system will usually include at least a processor memory and a bus coupling the memory to the processor.

It will also be appreciated that the computer system is controlled by operating system software which includes a file management system such as a disk operating system which is part of the operating system software. One example of an operating system software with its associated file management system software is the operating system known as Windows 95 from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and its associated file management system including Windows Explorer. The file management system is typically stored in the mass memory and causes the processor to execute the various steps required by the operating system to input and output data and to store data in memory including storing files on the mass memory .

In this and following sections the invention is described in terms of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system such as client computer and server computer in . Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located on both local and remote memory storage devices.

One embodiment of the present invention is described in conjunction with an example illustrated in . In this embodiment the invention is divided into three components that work together to enable web publishers to safeguard all or any portion of a web site.

The first component is the limited use web browser or add in security module executing on a client such as the client computer system . The second component is a server security module executing on a server such as the server computer system that handles the distribution of web content over a LAN or a WAN. The third component comprises two security models for protecting the content an individual security model that uses a secure document package and a common security model that uses encryption. The security models have both client and server elements.

In one embodiment the secure document package is a dynamically compiled executable that combines web content data with the ability to control and manipulate it. The server security component builds the secure document package and the limited use browser add in security module runs it. In one embodiment of the common security model the server security component creates and transmits a stream of encrypted content to the client computer and the limited use browser add in security module decrypts the content and displays it. The individual security model is most useful for distinct and self contained static content while the common security model is most useful for securing web pages and entire web sites without burdening the publisher with security details. Both security models can be used separately or in combination with each other and are described in detail in the next two sections.

Turning now to the example shown in a server computer for a content provider is executing the server component of the security system. All interactions between the server component and server computer are through a secure communications channel.

In the present example the content provider has used the individual security models to secure the pages on a web site. A user of the client computer requests a document from the server through the limited use browser . The browser sends a client key to the server computer either as a part of the request or via socket communication as is well known in the art. When the user request is received by the server computer the server component determines if a client key is associated with the request. If the key is not present the request is immediately rejected.

Assuming the client key has been transmitted by the client computer the server component verifies the validity of the key . In the embodiment shown in the key is checked against a local invalid key store which is a list of stolen or problem keys monitored by the server component . In a further embodiment not shown the server component also checks the key against a global invalid key store maintained by a third party such as the vendor of the security system. In one embodiment the key can merely specify to the server that the browser is a limited use browser the key can specify this information and a serial number of the browser. If the key is verified the server component performs the appropriate security functions depending on the security model used to protect the document and transmits a web page containing the secured document to the server computer for downloading to the client computer . In the present example the web page contains a security document package comprising the document plus any 10 security restrictions the content provider has set. A format for one embodiment of the security document package is described in more detail in the fourth section.

Once the web page is downloaded to the client computer the secure document package is cached on local storage . The limited use browser executes the secure document package to access the document but prevents the user from saving printing dragging or copying the document to any other medium.

When a document is secured using the common security model the server component encrypts the document prior to downloading it and the limited use browser decrypts the data for viewing only.

The system level overview of the operation of an exemplary embodiment of the invention has been described in this section of the detailed description. While the invention is not limited to any particular network configuration for sake of clarity a simplified wide area network with a single client and single server has been described. The invention is applicable to other configurations such as one server and multiple clients or several servers and several clients. The limited use browser and related security system allows the publication of information on a network without fear of re distribution. In addition the invention enables the publisher to require compensation when a user uses the information thus creating new ways of doing business on public networks such as the Internet.

For example the invention eliminates the need for thumbnail size or low resolution previews of images or media for online sales distribution or advertisement via the web. Instead with the use of the invention the entity selling visual content images movies etc. can display a preview of the full size high resolution version of the content. When the user visits the web site through the limited use browser add in security module the user sees the exact content to be purchased since the security system protects the seller s valuable content from unauthorized re distribution.

Similarly the invention enables publishers of proprietary text books reports scientific papers etc. to sell complete full text versions of their material online without worrying about re distribution. The selling entity can protect and then display for online reading the complete text of the material and a user running the limited use browser add in security module will be able to purchase and read a digital full text copy of a book. Because the limited use browser add in security module localizes the purchased content to a user s computer the user will not be able to re distribute the copy of the digital book outside his her own computer system. Thus online bookstores can literally be online bookstores through the use of the invention.

Additionally the invention can enforce a requirement that a user must download content from the web site of origin. The limited use browser add in security module ensures that one user cannot e mail any portion of the content to another user s but rather can only e mail the address URL of the originating web page. As a result all users that want to download the content must go to the originating web site and be counted as measurable traffic for advertising purposes. For example currently when a user sees a news story on a web site the user can copy and paste the story into an e mail client and e mail the story to another user. Unless the second user goes to the originating site the user will not see the site s advertising and is not counted as site traffic. With the invention the first user can send only the originating URL to the second user thus requiring the second user to visit the originating web site and be counted if the second user wants the content.

Typically compensation can be paid to the publisher when the content is downloaded by the end user. Alternatively if the end user acquires the limited user browser module from the publisher the publisher can also be compensated. The compensation can take the form of a one time fee for the browser module a subscription fee for content and updates a per session fee that covers all content downloaded during a single connection session or a per access applied each time a piece of content is downloaded. The publisher can also choose to permit normally disabled user functions on the content upon payment of a special fee thereby allowing these normally disabled functions to be used . Thus for example a transaction between a user client system and a server system can enable certain or all of the normally disabled user functions upon some compensation from the user client to the publisher. The compensation can be a form of payment or can be the user s agreement to allow certain advertising to be provided to the user or can be some information about the user that is provided by the user. The result of the transaction would allow the normally disabled user functions to be enabled for this publisher s content but not other publisher s content. Thus the browser in this case has different functionality depending on whether the content is protected and even if it is protected whether the user has additional privileges because of a transaction between the user and the publisher and or server.

Moreover the limited use browser add in security module and related security system of the present invention provides for compensation to the developer of the browser and security system. In one embodiment the developer sells the server security component to the publisher. In an alternate embodiment the developer also sells a number of copies of the limited use browser module to the publisher for downloading by end users. The sales price for the server security component can be a one time fee or based on usage. The sales price for the copies of the browser module can be on a per copy basis when a copy is downloaded. Alternatively the price of the security system and copies can be based on the advertising revenue obtained by the publisher as a result of site traffic for content protected by the invention. Additional compensation models will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art and are considered within the scope of the invention.

In the previous section a system level overview of the operations of an exemplary embodiment of the invention was described. In this section the particular methods performed by the server and the clients of such an exemplary embodiment are described by reference to a series of flowcharts. The methods to be performed by the clients normally constitute computer programs made up of computer executable instructions. Describing the methods by reference to a flowchart enables one skilled in the art to develop such programs including such instructions to carry out the methods on suitable computerized clients the processor of the client computers executing the instructions from computer readable media . Similarly the methods to be performed by the server constitute computer programs also made up of computer executable instructions. Describing the methods by reference to flowcharts enables one skilled in the art to develop programs including instructions to carry out the methods on a suitable computerized server the processor of the server computer executing the instructions from computer readable media .

The server security component acts in conjunction with the server computer to create a server digital processing system performing the server methods described in detail later in this section in conjunction with . The server digital processing system handles user authentication pre processes requests for content and performs the necessary security on the response data depending on the security model chosen for the content. When a request is made for a secure file or page server digital processing system first determines if the client computer is executing the limited use browser or add in security module and is making a valid request. If either condition is false the server digital processing system denies the request or provides an alternate non secure file or page where the content is not protected and hence can be reproduced . If the request is valid the server digital processing system creates the secure content and instructs the server computer to serve it to the client computer.

On the client side the limited use browser add in security module executing on the client computer form a client data processing system performing the client methods described in detail later in this section in conjunction with . A client computer executing a general purpose browser without the add in security module is typically prevented from accessing the secured portion of the web site. A limited use browser or a general purpose browser equipped with the limited use add in security module is able to view the secured content but is not able to save print drag or copy the content to any other medium.

The server and client digital processing systems rely on one or more of the following techniques to prevent the unauthorized copying of web content.

1. Window Subclassing. The client digital processing system intercepts and processes messages sent or posted before the destination window has a chance to process them. By subclassing a window the client can monitor the behavior of the window including key strokes input into the window. If the limited use browser or add in security module is not the foreground application a message for an unauthorized function is discarded or the content is hidden from view.

2. Clipboard Flushing. This technique stops a user from sending a screen capture to the clipboard by continuously destroying the contents of the clipboard while web browser is the active application. This technique also prevents background applications from copying the screen contents to the clipboard.

3. Disabling of Browser functions. The limited use browser on the client computer typically is implemented with no menu items keystrokes or mouse actions that can copy save or print or otherwise produce a non ephemeral reproduction. There can optionally be selective control or activation of these functions embedded in a secure document package as explained below. So for example if a web content owner authorizes a web page to be printed but not saved the print function can be made available to the user or if a particular user is allowed by a particular content owner to produce non ephemeral reproductions e.g. the user s limited use browser has a particular serial identification number that the content owner identifies as an authorized number for certain types of non ephemeral reproductions the corresponding functions can be activated.

4. Source Code Encryption. The HTML source code is encrypted by the server digital processing system using a system level encryption SLE key and the client digital processing system does not allow viewing or saving unencrypted HTML source code.

5. User Level Encryption. A unique identifier called the ULE key is created when the limited use browser or add in security module is installed on the client computer. Downloaded content is localized to the client digital processing system by encrypting the content with the ULE key. The ULE key is created either directly or algorithmically from a machine ID for the client computer.

6. Secure Document Package. A secure document package is composed of a document manager and one or more web pages each of which is encrypted with the ULE. To decrypt the package it is necessary to know where to break up the individual pages before attempting the decrypt the file and even then encryption makes the content unusable to anyone but the owner of the machine with the client registered with the unique ULE key.

7. Disabling Drag Drop . The ability to drag drop an image or object within a web page is not available in the limited use browser or a browser equipped with the add in security module.

8. Secure Cache Content. All web content downloaded and stored on the client computer in the course of browsing the web known as cached content is secured from the user through encryption.

9. Device Context Monitoring. Device Context Monitoring checks the context for each input output device against the secured image or text to determine if protected content is being accessed by the device.

In one embodiment the secure document package is in the form of an object such as provided by one of the common object models COM or CORBA. The secure document object SDO is comprised of the encrypted content along with information about the content including user access properties and optional restrictions based on date access and network connection. The document manager is a shared library that is loaded into memory by the client and accessed through the SDO s exposed interface. Having the data embedded separately in the object allows the object to manage itself conditionally allow access and to destroy itself if the object has expired if an expiration date is one of the exposed properties . The result of the processing at block is a file that contains encrypted content plus all the functionality of a component architecture including methods to access exposed methods properties and events.

If the client request is for a web page file or other content then the server system handles security for the response just before the content is returned to the client. At this point with the content accessed but before sending it back to the client the server system encrypts the content with the SLE block .

As part of the request for content at block the client system also transmits its ULE key to the server system. The server system uses the client ULE key to encrypt the content as previously described. All protected content downloaded and stored on the client system cached content is also secured using the ULE key so it cannot be transferred to another computer represented by block . illustrates one embodiment of the process represented at block . The client system determines whether the content is embedded in an SDO or encrypted with the ULE block . Embedded content is extracted from the SDO block while encrypted content is decrypted block . While the protected content is being displayed printing source code viewing and file saving functionality in the limited use browser are disabled by modifying user interface objects associated with standard menu items pop up menu items toolbar buttons and accelerator keys that are capable of generating commands that modify content block . Each user interface object has an identifier ID and through ID mapping the client system can attach code or change the functionality of the object or calls to the object. By this means the client system disables calls to specified toolbar buttons that call printing functionality or display the file s source to the user or allow saving of the file. This includes disabling and graying out the following menu items in the limited use browser Print . . . Page Setup Save Save As . . . View Source Save Picture As . . . Set as Wallpaper and Copy. The SDO can also contain change the default disablement of certain functions block .

The method executed by client digital processing system employs subclassing and device context monitoring to monitor the activity on the underlying computer at block and illustrated in detail in the flowchart of .

As well known in the art subclassing is a technique that allows an application to intercept messages destined for another window. When an application subclasses a window it can perform three actions with the message 1 pass the message to the original window procedure 2 modify the message and pass it to the original window procedure 3 not pass the message. The application subclassing a window can decide when to react to the messages it receives. The application can process the message before after or both before and after passing the message to the original window procedure. Subclassing methods are used to hide the secure view by intercepting and handling activate messages for the window and to interrupt screen copying by intercepting and handling keyboard messages from the user.

A windows message handler monitors window activation and deactivation block . The method performed by the windows message handler is described with reference to messages for the Microsoft Windows operating system but the corresponding messages in other windowing operating systems will be immediately apparent to one skilled in the art. The windows message handler intercepts a WM ACTIVATE message for the window containing the content block . If the parameter of the activate message is WA INACTIVE block then the window has lost focus and the view content is hidden block . The view can be hidden by painting the view background a solid color clearing the contents of the view or covering the view with a blank form view called a view cover. If the WM ACTIVATE message parameter is not WA INACTIVE ex. WA ACTIVE or WA CLICKACTIVE then the window has focus and the view content is displayed by refreshing the view or hiding the view cover block .

The keyboard message handler block monitors keystrokes and filters out single keys or combinations of keystrokes that have not be redefined by remapping IDs as described previously but are to be disabled block . Such disallowed actions are blocked block . In one embodiment of block the keystrokes are ignored. In an alternate embodiment an error message is also displayed.

All graphical and text output on the client computer is passed through a device such as a monitor or printer or manipulated with a pointing device such as a mouse. Each active device is allocated a device context that manages the current data being processed. By monitoring all allocated device contexts block the client digital processing system can determine if the context of a device matches a secured image or text block and block disallowed actions block . For example if the disallowed action is printing or dragging and dropping the action can be blocked by overwriting the device content. In one embodiment the client analyzes the size compares the pixel values and or performs pattern matching to determine if the secured image or text is being accessed by the device.

Turning now to the clipboard monitor process of block is described. As shown in the most common means of inter application communication is the clipboard. The process can be initiated by a user or an application. When a user requests a copy or print screen operation to place data in the clipboard the application makes API calls to empty the clipboard and then to send data to the clipboard . When the user makes a paste request the receiving application enumerates the formats of the data in the clipboard and having found one which is applicable transfers the data.

The clipboard monitor watches the clipboard contents for any change. As shown in one embodiment of the disclosed clipboard monitor frequently monitors the contents of the clipboard and deletes any contents if they are present. This prevents background processes from using the clipboard to copy view only content while the limited use browser has the focus and is displaying protected content as the foreground application. Monitor frequency increases with consecutive clipboard usage detection.

The particular methods performed by client and server data processing systems of an exemplary embodiment of the invention have been described. The methods performed by the server have been shown by reference to flowcharts in FIGS. A C including all the acts from until . The methods performed by the client have been shown by reference to flowcharts in including all the acts from until . An additional client method has been described with reference to functional diagrams in .

In this section of the detailed description a particular implementation of the invention is described including authentication and event handling and a data structure for the secure document package.

The server security component filters web client authentication and web server request and response events. The server determines if a request from a particular client is applicable and the client digital processing system is running the limited use browser module. The server security component intercepts specific web server events and imposes a secure framework on the processing of web content. The server security component provides enhanced logging capabilities custom authentication and response encryption through web notification filters. One embodiment of the server security component authenticates clients and processes requests for content by being linked directly to an Internet server through an ISAPI NSAPI Internet Server Application Programming Interface Netscape Server Application Programming Interface filter or as an integrated part of an Internet web server. The filters are described in terms of HTTP commands that are well known in the art.

When CHttpFilter HttpFilterProc is called the notifications received will determine which of the CHttpFilter member functions will be called. The invention overrides five HttpFilterProc member functions to add functionality to the web server. For example sever security component adds encryption by overriding the OnSendRawData member function and processing the data that is being sent back to the client. The following is a list of other functions the invention filter overrides to provide a secure framework for web content 

OnAuthentication authenticates the client. The server can authenticate users independent of Internet web server or operating system security. Authentication allows the publisher to set selective access to secure content.

OnSendRawData notifies the filter before raw data is sent from the server to the client. If the publisher has tagged a page using the common security model then the raw data being sent back to the requesting client will be encrypted before responding.

One implementation of the disclosed common security model transmits a stream of encrypted text from a web server either through an ISAPI NSAPI filter or other integrated server module. The common security model is typically used to secure individual text or image elements either individual web pages or entire web sites by encrypting the response content from an Internet web server. The server security component validates client request as previously described and upon validation intercepts the Internet web server s response and encrypts the outgoing data. The common security model uses a single encryption key for all content as compared to the individual security model which uses a key unique to each client and prevents other users from accessing the secured content as described next. The common security model allows the publisher to tag specific files pages for secure or non secure responses. This gives the publisher the ability to selectively secure any content.

As previously described the individual security model uses a secure document package or object that contains the web page files or other content requested by the client along with a document manager. A data structure for one embodiment of an SDO is illustrated in .

When a limited use browser module displays the secured content embedded in the SDO it invokes one or more of the object s methods described in detail later in this section. As described above the SDO is preferably a set of text files images or pages that a content provider has grouped together and encapsulated in one object using the server component. The SDO is divided into three sections a delivery object which is the DLL binary for the document manager a document package header that describes the content data size restrictions etc and the document data containing the content for one or more individual files pages pieces of text image or any singular part of the secured content DocumentData . The document package header maintains a file index entry for each instance of DocumentData in the document data section . In the present implementation the SDO is downloaded to the client computer as a compressed file. When opened or loaded by the limited use browser module the file is decompressed into a DLL file and loaded dynamically.

The limited use browser module queries the SDO through a DeliverDPH Deliver Document Package Header method as described further below which returns the package content information properties shown in .

PackageID is a globally unique identifier GUID for the secure document package that can be logged by the content provider and optionally at a central location such as the vendor of the security system. PackageOpenRestriction defining the number of times package can be opened before the document manager disables the package. A PackageExpiration Date for the entire package. In the present implementation the expiration date is read only and is initialized before the SDO is assembled on the server. PackageSecurityType that defines whether the DocumentData is encrypted or not.

The content provider can require it be alerted when the SDO is accessed. A PackageAlert flag is set to TRUE if publisher wants to receive an alert. PackageAlertFrequency defines how often the SDO will alert the publisher if the PackageAlert flag is TRUE. PackageAlertURL containing a destination uniform resource locator URL for the alert and PackageAlertMessage contains the alert text. When these properties are set the SDO checks for an open network connection on the user s workstation and send a message to the specified URL. This allows the server component to track downloaded objects.

If NetworkRequired 712 is set to TRUE the limited use browser module is required to be connected to the Internet anytime this SDO is accessed. If no connection is found the limited use browser will not display the content. Once online and connected to the originating server the SDO tells the server who is viewing the content and in this way the content owner has a way of tracking usage.

A DocumentDataReady flag is set by document manager when the DocumentData can be accessed i.e. decompressed and or decrypted. A Paginated flag set to TRUE indicates that the contents of document data section are accessible by page numbers.

Each instance of DocumentData is described through a series of properties which are returned as a result of the DeliverDPH method. DocumentID contains a unique identifier for the associated DocumentData . DocumentOpenRestriction defines the number of times this content can be accessed. DocumentExpirationDate contains a date after which this particular piece of content can no longer be accessed. DocumentName is the text name for the associated DocumentData . DocumentFileType contains the type of the associated DocumentData . PageNumber is the page number of the DocumentData if the document data section is paginated . ByteLengthBComp contains the byte length of the associated DocumentData before compression while ByteLength contains the actual length of the content. A SourceOverload flag permits the limited use browser module to seek newer content on the original server. This is especially useful for updating images without having to build a new secure document template on the server. DocumentData contains the actual protected content.

The present implementation of an SDO provides support for two methods of controlling access to the encapsulated content. A DocumentShow method is used by the limited use browser module to access the embedded data. A particular instance of DocumentData is accessed by PageNumber DocumentID or on a first in first out basis within the document data section depending on the values of a DocShowType argument and a Doc Index argument for the method. The DeliverDPH Deliver Document Package Header method returns the package content information to the requesting client as described immediately above. Both methods return a success error code upon execution.

A limited use browser and related security system has been described. Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention.

For example those of ordinary skill within the art will appreciate that only one of the two disclosed security models can be used by the content provider or that security models providing the same functionality can be substituted without exceeding the scope of the invention. Furthermore those of ordinary skill within the art will appreciate although portions of the invention have been described in terms of its implementation in a component architecture such an architecture is not required to practice the invention.

The terminology used in this application is meant to include all client server operating environments. While the invention is described in terms of preferred embodiments in a specific system environment those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification in other and different hardware and software environments. Therefore it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

