---

title: Nanoparticle based thermal history indicators
abstract: An indicator composition for determining a thermal or chronological history during shipping or storage of a product. The composition includes a plurality of nanoparticles dispersed throughout a matrix. The nanoparticles turn color while dispersed in the matrix as a function at least one of time and temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08033715&OS=08033715&RS=08033715
owner: Illinois Institute of Technology
number: 08033715
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071108
---
This work was supported in part by award number N00014 05 1 0914 from the Office of Naval Research. The U.S. Government has certain rights to this invention.

This invention relates generally to indicators for temperature and time and more particularly to a thermal or chronological indicator for use in determining temperature or time for storing and or shipping products.

A general object of the invention is to provide an improved thermal or chronological indicator particularly for use during product shipment and or storage.

The general object of the invention can be attained at least in part through a combination including a plurality of nanoparticles and a matrix. The plurality of nanoparticles is dispersed throughout the matrix to form a thermal or chronological indicator in which the nanoparticles turn color while dispersed in the matrix as a function at least one of time and temperature.

The invention further comprehends a method of determining at least one of a thermal or chronological history during shipping or storage of a product. The method includes placing an indicator with the product. The indicator is at least one of a thermal indicator and a chronological indicator and the indicator includes a plurality of nanoparticles dispersed throughout a matrix where the nanoparticles turn color while dispersed in the matrix as a function at least one of temperature and time. The method further includes at least one of storing and shipping the product with the indicator and evaluating the indicator after the at least one of storing and shipping the product with the indicator.

The indicator compositions of one embodiment of this invention use the synthesis of nanoparticles such as nanorods that have morphology and optical properties that vary with temperature and or time. The indicator compositions take advantage of the inherent instability of metallic nanoparticles with time and temperature for use as thermal history indicators for a variety of applications. The indicator compositions of this invention have tremendous potential to indicate the thermal history of a product by displaying the change in color as an effect of temperature over a period of time.

Exemplary applications where the thermal history indicators of this invention would be useful include perishable food products time and temperature sensitive pharmaceuticals monitoring the storage conditions of products such as sensitive chemicals vaccines food and pharmaceuticals during transport from production to distribution to consumer storage conditions of temperature sensitive electronic components and other applications where it is necessary to have a reliable indication of exposure to detrimental temperature conditions for a sensitive product. The indicators of this invention can greatly help assess liabilities when a temperature sensitive product has not been handled under proper storage conditions at any point from production to distribution. The indicators are generally easy to evaluate as they are based on color their production is relatively inexpensive and the conditions under which they display thermal history effects can be adjusted to varying degrees of sensitivity e.g. these indicators can be made to indicate changes in temperature over a few minutes a few days or even weeks and months according to particular needs .

Other objects and advantages will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the figures and the appended claims.

The present invention comprises the preparation of compositions including anisometric metal nanoparticles e.g. nanorods and stabilizing surfactants that exhibit varying optical properties as a function of temperature and or time. The thermal indicator of this invention changes color in response to increases in temperature with time and in one embodiment of this invention may be used for indicating the time based thermal history of temperature sensitive products for both short time and long time history. The compositions of this invention can be tailored for varying temperature ranges times of thermal exposure or both. The different combinations of reactants according to this invention to produce different sized nanoparticles with varying thermal stability can be used to develop products for a range of thermal indicators.

In one embodiment of this invention the indicator composition includes a plurality of nanoparticles dispersed throughout a matrix. Nanoparticles for use in this invention desirably have an anisometric shape. In one embodiment of the invention the nanoparticles are nanorods but the nanoparticles can also be nanoplates nanotriangles nanoprisms nanowires and multipods. Exemplary nanoparticles include metal nanoparticles that exhibit plasmon resonance in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum such as silver nanoparticles gold nanoparticles platinum nanoparticles copper nanoparticles and combinations thereof. The nanoparticles and solutions thereof can be formed according to various and alternative processes including known processes such as by using a seed solution as discussed below in the Examples.

The nanoparticles are dispersed throughout the matrix to form a thermal or chronological indicator in which the nanoparticles turn color while dispersed in the matrix as a function at least one of time and temperature. Any matrix material that keeps the nanoparticles in dispersion and limits particle contact and aggregation is suitable as the matrix of this invention. In one preferred embodiment the matrix comprises a solution. The solution desirably includes a stabilizing surfactant which affects the color change characteristics of the indicator. In other words the rate at which the nanoparticles turn color while dispersed in the matrix is a function of e.g. dependent upon an amount and or type of the stabilizing surfactant. Nanorods for example will naturally change shape over time and as this shape change causes the color change used by this invention as a thermal history indicator the stabilizing surfactant is used to limit aggregation and control e.g. slow the normal or natural progression of the shape changes. Stabilizing surfactants according to this invention can include cationic anionic and or non ionic surfactants. Exemplary stabilizing surfactants include cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide tetraoctyl ammonium bromide alkanethiols and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of this invention the matrix is a solid material matrix such as a polymer material. Various and alternative polymers could be used to for example form a polymer film indicator with the nanoparticles dispersed on or in the film either throughout or in select areas of the film. As will be appreciated the polymer film could be applied to a product or a bulk package of individual products as a temperature indicator label. A color change in the appropriate portion of the polymer film would be used to indicate the thermal history of the package.

The invention thus includes a method of determining at least one of a thermal or chronological history during shipping or storage of a product. An indicator is placed with the product to be shipped or stored. The indicator can be any indicator of this invention and is a thermal indicator and or a chronological indicator including a plurality of nanoparticles dispersed throughout a matrix. As discussed above the nanoparticles are able to and will turn color while dispersed in the matrix when exposed to increased temperature and or over extended periods of time. The product is stored and or shipped with the indicator in close proximity such as on the product itself or on or within a storing shipping container holding the product. When the product is brought out of storage or reaches is destination the indicator is evaluated to determine the thermal and or chronological history e.g. whether the product experienced too high of temperatures or too long of storage for that particular product.

The indicators of this invention have applications in research and industry as indicators of thermal history and kinetic or time based history. As the optical properties of these metallic nanoparticles are dependent on their morphology and the aspect ratio and their morphology varies with temperature and time the change in the optical properties takes place with increase of temperature as visually evident from the change in color. Extremely precise changes in optical properties can be measured by the absorbance spectra in the visible range using a spectrophotometer but the changes can be visually evident as well.

As an example of a commercial application of this invention the indicator could form part of the label for perishable food products such as dairy and meat. The color change of the label can be used to indicate whether the food product was refrigerated properly all the time or was left at higher temperature for a longer period of time. This in turn can indicate the condition of milk before use if it is still in good condition because the product can be unsuitable for consumption before the expiration date if it is not stored properly. The indicator of this invention will serve as a guarantee of the product condition both for customers and retailers. Other uses are to determine if vaccines shipped to remote locations have been maintained under proper storage conditions or to assure if temperature sensitive chemicals and biochemicals were stored and handled properly during shipping. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art following the teachings herein provided the indicators of this invention can be used in numerous applications where thermal history is crucial for the quality of a product including but not limited to perishable food chemicals or pharmaceutical products and electronic components e.g. where high temperatures can damage circuits or erase magnetic storage media .

The indicators of this invention are relatively inexpensive particularly as the amount of material needed to create an indicator would be very small and suitable reagents are very economic and readily available. Also regulatory concerns should not be a concern as suitable materials for creating the indicators are generally considered harmless.

The present invention is described in further detail in connection with the following examples which illustrate or simulate various aspects involved in the practice of the invention. It is to be understood that all changes that come within the spirit of the invention are desired to be protected and thus the invention is not to be construed as limited by these examples.

Preparation of Seed Solution A 10 ml solution with a final concentration of 0.25 mM silver nitrate and 0.25 mM trisodium citrate was prepared in water. The solution was heated to 50 C. While vigorously stirring the heated solution 0.3 mL of freshly prepared 10 mM sodium borohydride in water was added all at once. The solution turned yellow. The stirring was continued for 2 hours and then the seed was used. Preparation of silver nanorods A different set of solutions with concentration and volumes as listed below containing silver nitrate cetyltrimethyl ammonium bromide CTAB and the seed solution were made in water. The solution was mixed carefully and left undisturbed at this point. After 10 minutes 0.2 mL of 100 mM ascorbic acid and 40 L of 1 M NaOH were simultaneously added with minimal disturbance. Within 1 10 minutes the color of the solution changed from colorless to pale pink and then to greenish grey. The solution was allowed to stand for 2 hours for the rods to grow. Absorbance measurements are done at each step of the above reaction procedure using optical absorption spectroscopy highlighting the growth of nanorods which is shown in . The following series of experiments were performed with varying parameters such as concentration of seed surfactant salt and temperature over a period of time. For each of Examples I V below the ratio of volume of solutions in final volume was for a final volume of 4.36 mL 4 mL CTAB solution 100 L silver nitrate 200 L Ascorbic acid 40 L NaOH 20 L Seed solution.

Addition of the ascorbic acid NaOH produced change in color in all solutions. The CTAB solutions produced pale pink color initially and gradually changed to a different color 80 mM Pale greenish 40 mM pale yellowish 20 mM greenish blue 10 mM dark green 5 mM bluish green and 1 mM parrot green. The optical absorption spectra of these CTAB solutions are shown in .

Three samples of 20 mM CTAB were placed in disposable cuvettes for this temperature experiment. One sample was placed in refrigerator at 4 C. one was kept at room temperature and another was kept in a 37 C. water bath. Spectral scans were taken for all the samples and are shown in . A color change occurred at 37 C. from green 0 hrs to blue 3 days to purple 10 days to pinkish orange 17 days . No obvious color change occurred at room temperature and the color change at 4 C. went from green to clear and back to a slight yellowish green color.

Based on the previous experiments the combination of seed silver nitrate and CTAB was chosen such that the change in wavelength color or shape of nanoparticles can be obtained at a rapid rate. Therefore 1 mM and 5 mM CTAB were chosen with 50 L silver nitrate and 20 L seed. Each of the solutions was placed in three disposable cuvettes for temperature controlled experiments. For each solution one cuvette was placed in the refrigerator at 4 C. one was kept at room temperature and another was kept at 37 C. in a water bath. Optical absorption spectral measurements were taken for all the samples and are shown in . For the 1 mM CTAB solution at room temperature the color changed from green 0 hrs to pink 3 5 hrs to yellow 72 hrs . For the 5 mM CTAB solution at room temperature the color changed very little becoming only slightly darker. The 5 mM CTAB solution at 4 C. turned a slight brownish color and the 5 mM CTAB solution at 37 C. turned to yellow 72 hrs .

By changing the composition of the system the color changes can be made to occur over shorter periods of time thereby providing a more sensitive thermal indicator. The following solutions were made 1 20 mM CTAB with 10 L silver nitrate and 20 L seed which remained green in color over a period of 72 hours at room temperature and 2 1 mM CTAB with 50 L silver nitrate and 20 L seed which changed color from initial green to pink at about 3 5 hours and ultimately yellow over a period of 72 hours at room temperature. The higher CTAB concentration provided more stability and the color did not change within 3 days. At the lower concentration of CTAB the color changes readily within a few hours. Therefore the present invention provides thermal indicator applications for different conditions. For some products short exposures to high temperatures may be inconsequential to their quality. In this case the thermal indicators can be tailored to change slowly over long periods of time. On the other hand for products that are extremely sensitive to temperature increases a thermal indicator that changes color in a much shorter period of time is more appropriate. Therefore the present invention allows flexibility in the creation of more or less sensitive thermal indicators for a wide range of applications. As evident from solution 2 the color indicator is useful not only to determine if the product was not properly stored but also helps to assess the extent of time during which it was not stored at the required conditions pink after a couple of hours yellow after 3 days .

Thus the invention provides a composition and method for indicating the thermal and or chronological history of a product by displaying a change in color as an effect of temperature over a period of time or the period of time itself. The indicator of this invention can help determine if the improper storage conditions were enough to compromise quality or not. The indicator is easy to see as it is based on color its production is relatively inexpensive and the conditions under which it displays thermal history effects can be adjusted to varying degrees of sensitivity.

The invention illustratively disclosed herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of any element part step component or ingredient which is not specifically disclosed herein.

While in the foregoing detailed description this invention has been described in relation to certain preferred embodiments thereof and many details have been set forth for purposes of illustration it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention is susceptible to additional embodiments and that certain of the details described herein can be varied considerably without departing from the basic principles of the invention.

