---

title: Data platform web services application programming interface
abstract: A system and method for implementing functions customized for a branded company are disclosed. A data platform includes a function database which initially receives, and stores, a standardized interface module, such as an application programming interface (API). The standardized interface module includes a plurality of elements, a subset of the elements required for function implementation and a second subset of the elements which can optionally be used to implement a function. A creation module communicates with the function database and modifies the standardized interface module, such as by selecting or removing optional elements from the standardized interface module to create a brand-specific interface. As the brand-specific interface includes the required elements and optional elements, a single system designed to process the required elements and the optional elements in the standardized interface can be used to implement multiple brand-specific interfaces which include different optional components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08291439&OS=08291439&RS=08291439
owner: Convergys Information Management Group, Inc.
number: 08291439
owner_city: Cincinnati
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070921
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 826 500 filed Sep. 21 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present generally relates to the field of data services for wireless networks and more specifically to brand specific customization and implementation of wireless functions.

A company can leverage the strength of its brand by offering wireless services. Offering wireless services provides a branded company with an additional revenue stream an additional channel for customer communication and deeper customer relationships and or enhanced customer loyalty initiatives. Currently many companies have become Mobile Virtual Network Operators MVNOs to extend their brand into the wireless domain. Because MVNOs do not generally have dedicated wireless networks they often rely on Mobile Virtual Network Enablers MVNEs to provide data and voice networks as well as wireless functions such as order management customer billing application management or other customer or support services. This also allows MVNEs to distribute fixed costs and administrative overhead over a greater number of wireless subscribers by aggregating the demand of multiple MVNOs.

However to carry out these roles MVNEs must provision and manage services provided by different networks and by different third party providers. In the case of data services MVNEs must communicate with various types of data providers such as ringtone providers streaming content providers and or messaging providers. To allow branded companies to customize data services offerings MVNEs must be able to interoperate with different data providers associated with different branded companies. However various data providers generally have different operational requirements and protocols and different branded companies may implement different variations of a wireless function.

One embodiment of a disclosed system and method uses a function database and a creation module to customize a wireless function for brand specific implementation. In an embodiment the function database includes a standardized interface module such as an application programming interface API . The standardized interface module includes required components and optional components. The creation module generates a brand specific interface from the standardized interface module by selecting or removing one or more optional components. Hence the brand specific interface includes at least the required components. A translation engine communicates with the function database and associates a branded company with a generated brand specific interface. The translation engine also identifies data requests from the branded company so that the brand specific interface is used to process those requests. Use of the standardized interface module including required components allows a centralized mobile virtual network enabler MVNE to execute the brand specific interface while the optional components allow individual branded companies to customize function execution.

In one embodiment a standardized interface module including required components and optional components is received. A brand specific interface which includes the required components and a subset or none of the optional components is then generated. For example optional components are selected or removed from the standardized interface module according to criteria from a branded company. The brand specific interface is then associated with the branded company and stored. For example a branded company identifier is generated to identify the branded company and associated with the brand specific interface thus when the branded company identifier is received the associated brand specific interface module is accessed. Hence use of a standardized interface module including required components allows similar execution of multiple functions while including optional components in the standardized interface module allows different branded companies to customize function execution based on company specific requirements. For example different branded companies can select different optional components to generate company specific output.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter.

A system and method for providing centralized execution of customer specific wireless functions is disclosed herein. For purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the invention. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

Wireless networks A N comprise networks capable of carrying mobile voice and or data traffic including the equipment and communication capabilities. For example wireless network A comprises wireless base stations mobile switching centers messaging services centers MSCs such as short MSCs multimedia MSCs or similar MSCs home location registers HLRs and or a wired line carrier. Wireless networks enable services such as for example provisioning call detail record CDR retrieval trouble ticketing coverage suspension wireless number portability WSP operational support systems OSS integration business support systems BSS integration or similar functionality. Wireless networks are adapted to communicate with one or more data platforms and request and or retrieve data from a data platform as needed. When a wireless customer of a brand system uses a wireless device not shown to request data or initiate a voice call the call or request and associated response are carried by one or more wireless networks . Hence the wireless networks allow a brand system customer to use any electronic device capable of initiating and receiving wireless phone calls and or data such as a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile communication device e.g. a Blackberry or Goodlink e mail device or similar device.

As shown in brand systems A N comprise one or more entities providing marketing customer acquisition and branding of wireless offerings. However brand system does not include components for carrying out customer management and services associated with providing wireless services. Instead one or more of the customer management or provider services are provided by the MVNE system . Hence the MVNE system connects customers of brand system to one or more wireless networks and provides management and or support services for wireless voice and or data services to brand system customer.

The third party systems A N comprise application software created by one or more vendors. In one embodiment third party systems A N comprise proprietary application software created by various vendors. For example third party systems comprise billing or management software such as Siebel Communications from Siebel Systems Inc. or Infinys Genefa software from Convergys Corporation. In one embodiment the MVNE system is adapted to communicate with multiple third party systems that offer similar or overlapping services. For purposes of illustration shows two third party systems A N although any number of third party systems can communicate with the MVNE system .

One or more data platforms A N are adapted to communicate with the MVNE system . In one embodiment a data platform comprises one or more servers each connected to one or more forms of content. In an embodiment the one or more servers are specifically provisioned for a brand system customer of an MVNE and access third party content and or content unique to the brand system . For example for a branded company offering media themed wireless services the brand company offers exclusive clips and programming for its users over a proprietary data server included in a data platform . In an embodiment one or more data platforms are provided by a third party data system provider such as Converse Technology Inc. or Openwave Systems Inc. In an embodiment when a brand company subscriber signs up for data services modifies an existing data plan or terminates data service or other account modification the MVNE system carries out the associated transactions on the appropriate data platform .

In one embodiment when a user accesses content through a data platform a data request is communicated from the user s wireless device to the data platform using a wireless network . Although a wireless network can carry traffic without directly involving the MVNE system in one embodiment before providing requested content to a user the MVNE system is checked to ensure that the user is authorized to receive the content such as by verifying that the user s service plan includes the requested action or another suitable validation technique.

In various embodiments the MVNE system comprises a single computer or a plurality of computers adapted to communicate with each other. In one embodiment the computers comprising the MVNE system comprise general purpose computers configured to perform wireless voice and or data management and or support services. In an embodiment the MVNE system directly provides a subset of management services such as customer management order management applications management billing services or similar services. Alternatively MVNE system comprises logic for controlling or interfacing with one or more third party systems which implement management services.

In one embodiment the MVNE system includes a data platform services adapter one or more brand system interfaces A N one or more wireless network interfaces A N and one or more third party system interfaces A N. The data platform services adapter communicates with one or more data platforms . The brand system interface allows the MVNE system to communicate with one or more brand systems . The wireless network interface allows the MVNE system to interact with one or more wireless networks . The third party system interface enables the MVNE system to interact with one or more third party systems. For purposes of illustration shows the MVNE system including two third party system interfaces A N two brand system interfaces A N and two wireless network interfaces A N however in other embodiments the MVNE system includes multiple brand system interfaces third party system interfaces and or wireless network interfaces . The brand system interface wireless network interface third party system interface and or the data platform interface comprises a protocol for managing the data exchange between the MVNE system and the brand system the wireless network the third party system and the data platform respectively. The appropriate protocol is carried out using one or more network connections . The network connections comprise a public network such as the Internet a private Local Area Network LAN or Wide Area Network WAN and can comprise a wired communication link a wireless communication link or a combination of wired and wireless communication links.

The MVNE system also includes a control module which controls the MVNE system and communicates with the data platform adapter brand system interface the wireless network interface and the third party system interface . In one embodiment the control module comprises multiple software processes for execution by a processor not shown and or firmware applications. The software and or firmware processes and or applications can be configured to operate on a general purpose microprocessor or controller a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the control module comprises portions or sub routines of a software or firmware application that communicates with the data platform adapter brand system interface the wireless network interface and the third party system interface and or controls MVNE system actions. Moreover other embodiments can include different and or additional features and or components than the ones described here.

Additionally in various embodiments the MVNE system also includes logic for controlling front end and or back end components of a wireless network . Front end components may include for example a wireless application framework WAF and authentication system a content delivery system a messaging system an interactive voice response unit IVRU a call center system a customer relationship management CRM application and master customer database DB a product catalog system and a world wide web wireless application protocol WAP and authentication system. Examples of back end components include a personal identification number PIN management system an equipment serial number ESN management system a subscriber identity module SIM management system a short message service SMS gateway a billing rating and call detail record CDR management system a reporting system an enterprise resource planning ERP taxation system a bill finishing and printing system a mediation manager system an prepaid gateway system or a prepaid service control point SCP system.

The MVNE system supports wireless offerings of multiple brand companies using one or more wireless networks and one or more data platforms . To support these different companies the MVNE system communicates and interacts with multiple brand systems wireless networks third party systems and data platforms determines what brand system is associated with each communication and manages traffic between the different elements. The data platform services adapter handles network traffic relating to data services. For convenience services such as billing or provisioning services provided in support of providing data services are herein referred to as data support services. Additionally services such as account maintenance item purchasing identity verification or similar services for establishing or maintaining a wireless account are referred to herein as wireless functions. 

In one embodiment a third party system such as a CRM system comprises a system configured to support sales provisioning billing marketing or other customer service transaction and store data associated with the transaction. Commonly the third party system is implemented using a combination of hardware and software. For example general purpose computer hardware running multiple software processes is used to implement the third party system as a software process. Alternatively the third party system is implemented using multiple software processes running on a plurality of separate computer systems as a distributed computer system.

The data platform services adapter includes a platform integration module a configuration database a business process module and a translation engine . However in other embodiments the data platform services adapter includes different and or additional features and or components than the ones described here.

The business process module comprises logic for handling data support service requests and for determining actions to be taken by the data platform services adapter to implement the requests. The requests originate from a variety of sources such as the third party system such as a CRM system a billing system a retail system a consumer system or another system capable of transmitting service requests. In an embodiment data and requests within the MVNE system are represented in various independent formats. Alternatively data and requests are represented in a canonical data format including objects relevant to the request such as customer identifier customer contract customer contact data customer plan data request or other data associated with the customer and or data request. Objects in the canonical data form are associated with additional network data such as network entity customer entity subscriber entity plan entity or other data associated with the network configuration. The business process module then maps the received request into one or more operational tasks for implementing the request. For example if the business process module receives a request to allocate data services to a customer the business process module requests information about the customer provides customer information to a third party system determines the data platform affected or specified by the request and interacts with additional elements necessary to carry out the request. As the data platform services adapter processes requests from multiple brand systems when a request is received the business process module determines the third party system the data platform or the other platform elements utilized and how to interact with the systems platforms or other elements.

The configuration database comprises associations between brand systems and third party vendors or data platforms selected by the brand system . The configuration database receives requests from the business process module and communicates the association corresponding to the received request back to the business process module . The configuration database also includes the communication requirements and or protocols associated with the third party vendors or data platforms . Alternatively communication requirements and or protocols needed to implement a request are stored in association with additional characteristics of an incoming request such as the selected service tier or the customer wireless network. The configuration database comprises a hard disk drive a flash memory device or other suitable mass storage device. Further the configuration database can be a volatile storage device e.g. dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM or another suitable memory device a non volatile storage device or a combination of a non volatile storage device and a volatile storage device.

When a request is received by the business process module the business process module identifies a brand company associated with the received request and then retrieves corresponding platform system and format specifications from the configuration database . For example data stored in the configuration database specifies that when a request is received from brand company B a data provisioning request is sent to data platform C specifically to data platform elements server D and server E. Data stored in the configuration database also provides that calls to server D are made using a Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA and calls to server E are made using a Wireless Access Protocol WAP .

The business process module further communicates a request to the translation engine including the tasks and communication requirements retrieved from the configuration database . The translation engine then generates calls in the appropriate format for the appropriate destination using the received request. For example the translation engine creates a call using data transformation protocol information and application protocol interface API information retrieved from the configuration database . In one embodiment the translation engine also executes the calls to external systems such as the third party system or data platform . As the translation engine handles multiple calls on behalf of various brand systems different calls are identified by unique transaction identifiers so that traffic to and from the translation engine is routed to the appropriate destination.

In one embodiment the translation engine includes data describing a plurality of functions such as application programming interface API information. In one embodiment the data describing the plurality of functions comprises data identifying one or more inputs such as data describing input type data describing input format or other data describing how a function receives input. In another embodiment the data describing the plurality of functions also includes data identifying one or more outputs such as data describing output format data describing output type or other data describing characteristics of a function output. For example the translation engine includes extensible markup language XML data describing input data output data and how to execute the plurality of functions such as an XML schema associated with different functions. In one embodiment the stored API information comprises XML schemas for different functions such as subscription activation identify verification check or credit card charging or other functions used in wireless communication systems. The stored XML schemas include a plurality of components where a subset of the components are required for execution of the function and a second subset of the components are optional and are included or excluded as specified by various branded companies.

Additionally the translation engine also includes data associating one or more functions with a brand system allowing retrieval of data describing a plurality of functions associated with a brand system . This allows different brand systems to differently execute functions based on data associated with the brand system. This allows different brand systems to provide customized functions while also using common resources to execute the functions.

Because the data platform services adapter interacts with a plurality of data platforms when a brand company or MVNO chooses a data platform or data platforms the platform integration module establishes the brand or MVNO customer with the corresponding data platform selections. When connections between the data platform services adapter are already established an instance of the brand company customer or MVNO customer is configured on the data platform . For example when a brand company is established the platform integration module associates a unique identifier with the brand company and communicates the unique identifier to the data platform . The unique identifier specifies data platform transactions associated with brand company customers. This identification method leverages pre existing connections between the data platform services adapter and the data platform to provide customized data offerings for the brand company.

A different protocol is then used to introduce a new data platform to the MVNE system . Data such as program code specific to the data platform is created to allow the MVNE system to communicate with the new data platform . The data platform specific data specifies data platform protocol and communication requirements. Relevant data is communicated to the configuration database e.g. the brand company s data platform selections and the translation engine e.g. new protocols new data transformations and API data for connecting to the new data platform .

Further to allow multiple brand companies to customize function implementations various data platforms include a function database . In one embodiment the function database includes a standardized interface module which includes required components and a plurality of optional components. The standardized interface module describes how the data platform implements different functions and allows platform specific function customization. The creation module is adapted to communicate with the function database and communicates data or instructions to the function database describing modifications to the interface module. Hence the local function database and creation module allow different data platforms to differently implement functions. This customized implementation allows brand systems to share resources while still providing customized services to subscribers or customers. Modifying the optional components of the standardized interface module allows multiple brand systems to use resources configured to execute the standardized interface module while also varying the required and or generated data according to specialized brand system criteria.

For example the creation module specifies which optional components from the standardized interface module are used to implement a function described by the standardized interface module creating a brand specific interface . Specifying one or more optional components allows the creation module to vary the input and or output parameters to a function altering the input requested and or the output produced according to different requirements. The brand specific interface is then stored. In one embodiment the brand specific interface is included in the function database . Alternatively the brand specific interface is stored in a separate storage device included in the data platform . In another embodiment the brand specific interface is communicated to MVNE system and stored in the configuration database or the translation engine .

The MVNE system is then notified of the generated brand specific interface e.g. by receiving a notification message by receiving a copy of the brand specific interface or another suitable notification method . The MVNE system then modifies the translation engine to associate the brand specific interface with the data platform which created the brand specific interface . For example a data platform identifier is associated with the brand specific interface and the association is then stored in the translation engine This allows brand companies to customize function execution while still allowing centralized function execution control by the MVNE system .

For example the MVNE system communicates a standardized interface module describing a plurality of functions to multiple data platforms . The data platforms initially store the standardized interface module in the local function database . The creation modules on multiple data platforms then modify the locally stored standardized interface module to generate a brand specific interface describing how the data platform executes one or more functions. For example the creation module selects optional components from the standardized interface module identifying specific input variables to request when executing a function or removes specific output variables to prevent presentation of certain data. The brand specific interface or data describing the brand specific interface is then communicated to the MVNE system . The MVNE system then modifies the translation engine to associate the brand specific interface with the data platform which generated the brand specific interface .

In one embodiment a data administration layer is also included to facilitate communication between the data platform services adapter and data platform elements. For purposes of illustration the data administration layer is shown in as a discrete module. However in alternative embodiments the data administration layer is included in the data platform or the MVNE system .

The data administration layer comprises an interface layer handling authentication and session management in transactions of the data platform and mediates transactions between the data platform services adapter and the download server browsing server streaming server location enabled server and or function database . The data administration layer also controls security and access control to the download server browsing server streaming server location enabled server and or function database . In one embodiment the data administration layer also determines which classes of services a user can access. In one embodiment the data administration layer comprises an authentication authorization and accounting AAA layer. In various embodiments additional layers are also included such as layers providing services applications or content e.g. a mapping server a game server or similar server .

In one embodiment content is locally served from one of the download server browsing server streaming server or location enabled server . For example brand companies customize their customers experiences by for example devising specific interfaces menus and or portals for their customers. The download server stores static content for example ringtones wallpaper or video clips. In one embodiment the download server is refreshed on a regular basis.

The browsing server provides subscribers with the ability to browse internet uniform resource indicators URIs . The browsing server forwards a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request entered in a wireless device to the Internet retrieves the requested URI and returns the URI to the wireless device. In one embodiment the data platform also includes a messaging server not shown allowing users to engage in text messaging voice messaging ring tone delivery intra private label brand customer messaging inter carrier messaging or similar messaging type services.

The streaming server provides streaming content to one or more wireless devices responsive to receiving a request for streaming content such as a live video or audio feed. The streaming server communicates with a content source such as a video feed or music feed from a satellite or internet radio source or other streaming data source. The streaming server also filters transcodes and streams the requested data to the requesting wireless device or devices.

In one embodiment the data platform also includes a location enabled server that determines a user s location and provides data responsive to the user s location. For example the location enabled server determines a user s location and provides the user with data regarding restaurants transportation schedules stores or other data near the user s location.

The function database includes data describing how the data platform implements one or more wireless communication functions such as the standardized interface module and or the brand specific interface . For example the function database includes the brand specific interface which describes how a brand company implements a user authentication or payment processing function. Hence the function database allows different data platforms to differently implement functions such as by requesting different input or generating different output when a function is implemented by different data platform . This customization allows branded companies to implement functions in a company specific manner while using the centralized MVNO architecture.

In one embodiment one or more of the download server browsing server streaming server location enabled server and or function database provides requested content using a protocol determined by one or more characteristics of the content requesting wireless device and or the wireless network. One or more of the download server browsing server streaming server location enabled server and or function database provides the requested data via a wireless access protocol WAP multimedia message service MMS file transfer protocol FTP real time streaming protocol RTSP or other similar data communication format.

When a customer initiates changes or terminates a data service the data platform services adapter communicates data to the appropriate data platform elements and the third party system . For example to activate a customer information about the customer is passed to the data platform in the format corresponding to the data platform . In one embodiment this information comprises one or more of the customer s electronic serial number ESN mobile directory or dialing number MDN or mobile subscriber ID MSID as well as data plans and features selected by the customer. For example a customer elects a package of basic or premium data services a class of service or selects options related text messaging e mail Internet browsing or streaming content downloading.

Information communicated to the data platform is received by the data administration layer which stores a subset of the communicated data in a customer profile. Messages regarding the options or features selected by the customer are provided to one or more of the download server browsing server streaming server location enabled server or function database . For example if the customer selects a plan allowing for streaming video content a message requesting allocation of streaming server resources to the customer is transmitted to the data platform . Once activation is completed at the data platform the data administration layer sends a message to the data platform services adapter that activation was successfully completed and this confirmation data is then sent to the third party system .

In one embodiment the data platform services adapter also completes other transactions in support of data services. For example the data platform services adapter implements customer maintenance transactions to change or update plan or customer information or query characteristics of a customer s existing data choices or preferences. When a customer attempts to change customer information a request for details about the existing plan stored in the data administration layer is transmitted from the data platform services adapter. In one embodiment the data administration layer evaluates whether the change requested is compatible with the existing plan. For example if the existing plan is a service allowing for unlimited downloads a request to add additional downloads is declined because the plan already includes this feature. As another example if a customer changes their wireless device the ESN of the new wireless device is transmitted to the data platform . Or if a customer phone number is changed an updated MDN and or MSID is provided to and stored by the data platform . Alternatively a request to terminate service is communicated to the data platform responsive to a customer request or to a customer s failure to pay a bill or at the end of a contract.

Initially a data platform receives a standardized interface module such as a standardized application programming interface API . In one embodiment the standardized interface module is received from the MVNE system or from a third party system or other device adapted to communicate with the data platform via a wireless link . The standardized interface module describes one or more functions used for wireless data transmission such as product sales account maintenance identity verification or similar data transmission or account management functions. In one embodiment the standardized interface module comprises a plurality of XML schema describing how to execute different functions. For example the standardized interface module includes an XML schema describing an account balancing function an XML schema describing a customer identification function an XML schema describing an account updating function or additional XML schemas describing other account maintenance functions.

The standardized interface module is then modified on the data platform by a creation module to create a brand specific interface . In one embodiment the standardized interface module is modified according to branded company specifications stored in the creation module or communicated to the creation module from a data platform user or a brand system user or administrator. This customization includes or excludes specified components of the standardized interface module from the brand specific interface

For example the modification specifies a subset of XML schema components used by a branded company to implement a function. For example when the XML schema describes a function for displaying a product catalog the modification specifies certain components of the XML schema such as promotional displays and pricing end dates used for branded company specific function implementation. This modification allows the standardized interface module to include components required for function execution and optional components that are used or not used responsive to branded company selection. Requiring that certain components are used allows functions to be standardized but also enables brand specific function customization by selection or removal of optional components from the standardized interface module . Using different schemas for different functions allows brand specific customization of different functions.

The brand specific interface is then stored in the function database or another storage device of the data platform . In one embodiment the data platform stores multiple brand specific interfaces allowing the data platform to provide functions customized for multiple branded companies. After storage data associated with the brand specific interface is transmitted to the MVNE system . In one embodiment the transmitted data comprises the brand specific interface and an identifier specifying the brand company or companies associated with the brand specific interface allowing the MVNE system to locally implement functions described by the brand specific interface . Alternatively the transmitted data comprises an identifier specifying the data platform including a brand specific interface associated with a branded company. This identifier causes the MVNE system to transmit data associated with the branded company to the specified data platform which applies the brand specific interface to the received data.

Initially a request to execute a function is received by the MVNE system . Requests for function execution or other data are initially received by the MVNE system which then routes the received request to the appropriate data platform and or third party system . Thus the MVNE system then determines the source of the request. In one embodiment the MVNE system examines an identifier included in the request which identifies the brand system or other location making the request. Alternatively the MVNE system applies an algorithm to the received request to generate an identifier specifying the brand system where the request originated.

The MVNE system then determines a brand specific interface associated with the received request. In one embodiment the MVNE system compares the brand system identifier with stored data associating brand specific interfaces with brand systems such as a table including pairs of brand system identifiers and brand specific interfaces . For example the brand system identifier associated with the received request is compared to stored brand system identifiers.

If the brand system identifier associated with the received request matches a stored brand system identifier the corresponding brand specific interface is retrieved from the configuration database the translation engine the function database or other storage location. In one embodiment retrieving the brand specific interface comprises transmitting the request to the data platform storing the brand specific interface .

The brand specific interface is then used to execute the requested function. By using the brand specific interface to execute the function optional components in the brand specific interface are used to modify function execution. In one embodiment executing the function also includes transmitting the function output from the data platform or MVNE system back to the brand system .

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the present invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the present invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the present invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the present invention can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Of course wherever a component an example of which is a module of the present invention is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

