---

title: Systems and methods for viewing media content in instant messaging
abstract: Systems and methods for viewing media content in instant messaging are provided. In an embodiment, a first IM server that manages instant messaging of a first IM client receives a chat message having a media address from a second IM client whose instant messaging is managed by a second IM server. A first media recognizer associated with the first IM server recognizes the media address in the chat message. In response to the recognition, the first IM server provides the chat message and a media instruction to the first IM client. In another embodiment, the first IM server obtains media associated with the recognized media address and provides the chat message and the obtained media to the first IM client. In a further embodiment, a system for viewing media content based on presence information in instant messaging is provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08090779&OS=08090779&RS=08090779
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08090779
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070220
---
The emergence and development of computer networks and protocols including the World Wide Web or simply the web now allows many remote users to communicate with one another. Different types of communication tools have been developed for the web which allow users to communicate in different ways through a browser. One popular type of communication tool is instant messaging also called chat . Instant messaging IM allows users to communicate over the web in real time. A user uses a client program called an IM client that communicates with an instant messaging service over the web. The IM client has a graphical user interface GUI that allows a user to input text and view text.

IM communication has generally involved typing text. For example two users chatting may type lines of text in each of their IM client programs. The instant messaging service passes the typed text between the IM clients. The lines of text may resemble a conversation in that successive lines of text are displayed in a temporal sequence along with an indication of the user who typed the text. Often this indication of the user is a display of the user s screen name also called an IM address . IM clients have historically had simple GUIs with rectangular window displays in which the text of a chat is made to scroll as the conversation proceeds.

Different IM services and IM client programs have different features relating to the chat experience. For example instant messaging services often provide presence information that indicates whether people on one s list of contacts are currently online and available to chat. Some IM services also allow a user to set an online status or away message so that other users are aware of the user s availability to chat. Finally users can often personalize their profiles to change graphical features associated with their chat. For instance a user often has a screen name which is displayed to another to identify himself or herself when he or she is chatting. The screen name itself may be selected by the user or assigned by the IM service . A user may also choose different font colors font styles symbols or personalized images to be displayed along with his or her screen name. Examples of IM services include the Microsoft .NET Messenger Service AOL Instant Messenger Excite PAL Gadu Gadu Google Talk iChat ICQ Jabber Qnext QQ Meetro Skype Trillian Yahoo Messenger and Rediff Bol Instant Messenger. See Instant messaging as described on Wikipedia on Dec. 23 2006 at .

The limitation to text in instant messaging is at odds with other developments on the web. For instance media content is increasingly available on the web. Many web sites stream media to browsers allowing users to view a variety of rich media content. Users themselves also have different types of media files that they wish to share with one another. Currently techniques for file transfer such as e mail podcasting or a file transport protocol ftp tend to involve a number of different steps and procedures. This can inconvenience or disrupt an ongoing chat. For example if two users are chatting and wish to share media content they must initiate a separate file transfer process outside of their IM clients and switch between different applications and window displays.

The inventors recognized that media content needs to be included in instant messaging. Users need to be able to view media content. Users also need to be able to personalize their profiles with media content.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for viewing media content in instant messaging. In an embodiment a system for viewing media content in instant messaging is provided. A first instant messaging IM server manages instant messaging with a first IM client. A second instant messaging IM server manages instant messaging with a second IM client. The first and second IM servers further include first and second media recognizers respectively.

The first IM server receives a chat message having a media address from the second IM client. The first media recognizer recognizes the media address in the chat message. In response to the recognition the first IM server provides the chat message and media instruction to the first IM client.

Alternatively in another embodiment the first IM server obtains media associated with the recognized media address and provides the chat message and the obtained media to the first IM client. In one example the first IM server further includes a transcoder that can transcode a format of media fetched from the media address to another format compatible with a media player at the first IM client.

In a further embodiment a system for viewing media content based on presence information in instant messaging is provided. A first IM server manages instant messaging with a first IM client including presence information of other users that are associated with a user at the first IM client. The presence information can include a media address. A first media recognizer can recognize the media address in the presence information. In response to the recognition the first IM server provides a chat message and media instruction to the first IM client. Alternatively in another embodiment the first IM server obtains media associated with the recognized media address in the presence information and provides a chat message and the obtained media to the first IM client.

A method for viewing media content in instant messaging includes inputting a media address in a chat window at a first IM client the first IM client s instant messaging managed by a first IM server forwarding a chat message with the input media address to a second IM server that manages the instant messaging of a second IM client recognizing the media address in the chat message in response to the recognition providing the chat message and a media instruction to the second IM client and displaying media corresponding to the media instruction in a conversation window of the second IM client.

In another embodiment a method for viewing media content in presence information in instant messaging is provided. This method includes receiving presence information with a media address at an IM server recognizing the media address in the presence information in response to the recognition providing a chat message and a media instruction to an IM client and displaying media corresponding to the media instruction in a conversation window of the IM client.

In this way media content can be included in instant messaging. Users may view media content in real time while instant messaging. Users can share or transfer media content during a chat in real time. Users may also personalize their profiles with media content.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to accompanying drawings.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for viewing media content in instant messaging. In embodiments easy sharing and playback of videos pictures and other media in an instant messaging application may be done. A user can share media with another user through IM clients over the World Wide Web. The media may be viewed and played and is viewable directly within an instant messaging application including chat windows or profile cards.

While the present invention is described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. Those skilled in the art with access to the teachings provided herein will recognize additional modifications applications and embodiments within the scope thereof and additional fields in which the invention would be of significant utility.

The terms instant messaging IM and chat are used interchangeably herein to refer broadly and inclusively to any instant messaging application protocol framework or service as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art given this description. Examples of IM services including IM servers and IM clients which may be adapted to incorporate embodiments of the present invention as described herein include but are not limited to the Microsoft .NET Messenger Service AOL Instant Messenger Excite PAL Gadu Gadu Google Talk iChat ICQ Jabber Qnext QQ Meetro Skype Trillian Yahoo Messenger and Rediff Bol Instant Messenger.

The term media content is used herein to refer broadly and inclusively to any type of media including but not limited to video audio animation or still image.

Network s can be any network or combination of networks that can carry data communication. Such network s can include but are not limited to a local area network medium area network and or wide area network such as the Internet. Network s can support protocols and technology including but not limited to World Wide Web protocols and or services. Intermediate web servers gateways or other servers may be provided between browsers A B and IM servers A B and between IM servers A B depending upon a particular application or environment.

Client browsers A B and IM clients A B can be implemented in software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. Client browsers A B and IM clients A B can be implemented to run on any type of processing device including but not limited to a computer workstation distributed computing system embedded system stand alone electronic device networked device mobile device set top box television or other type of processor or computer system. Client browsers A B and IM clients A B can also be used in a variety of applications in combination with instant messaging or in instant messaging alone .

Similarly IM servers A B and media recognizers A B can be implemented in software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. IM servers A B and media recognizers A B can be implemented to run on any type of processing device including but not limited to a computer workstation distributed computing system embedded system stand alone electronic device networked device mobile device set top box television or other type of processor or computer system. IM servers A B and media recognizers A B can also be used in a variety of applications in combination with instant messaging or in instant messaging alone .

System can be used is a stand alone system or in connection with a search engine web portal or other web site to allow remote users to engage in instant messaging with media content viewing. IM servers A B can operate alone or in tandem with other servers web servers or devices and can be part of any search engine portal or web site.

Functionality described herein is described with respect to components or modules for clarity. However this is not intended to be limiting as functionality can be implemented on one or more modules on one device or distributed across multiple devices.

In operation IM server A manages instant messaging with IM client A. IM server B manages instant messaging with IM client B. When user A and user B begin chatting IM clients A B each provide user interfaces that include conversation windows for users A and B to input their respective chat text. Optional presence information may also be made available so that users A and B know if they are available to chat or if others are available to chat .

As the users chat IM clients A B pass chat messages to respective IM servers A B. The chat messages are forwarded between IM servers A B and from there forwarded to respective IM clients A B. Chat message displays may then be displayed by IM clients A B for users A and B to view.

According to a feature IM server A further includes a media recognizer A. IM server B likewise includes a media recognizer B. In bound chat messages to IM servers A B are reviewed by the respective media recognizers A B. Media recognizers A B parse or review the message content to identify an address associated with media content referred to herein as a media address . Such an address may be for example a web address such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL also called a Uniform Resource Identifier where one or more media files are stored. To reduce work only in bound chat messages passing from IM servers A B to their respective IM clients A B may be reviewed.

When a media recognizer A B recognizes a media address in a chat message an alert or command may be sent to the respective IM servers A B. In response IM servers A B can output a media instruction or the media itself. When a media instruction is output burden is placed on a browser or IM client to obtain the media for play by a media player at the browser. For instance in one embodiment when a media address is recognized IM servers A B provide a chat message and media instruction to their respective IM clients A B. IM client A B then may use the media instruction to instruct an appropriate media player to play media corresponding to the media instruction in a conversation window of the IM client A B.

In another embodiment IM servers A B can obtain the media at the media address and output the media in instant messaging to the browsers A B or IM clients A B . In one example IM servers A B can include or communicate with transcoders not shown to transcode media that is obtained to a format associated with their respective IM clients A B.

In one feature a media address may be input by a user directly into a chat conversation window. In another feature a media address may be part of presence information. For example a media address may be input into a profile card including but not limited to a static display profile card or a hovercard that pops up when a mouse is near a contact.

In the embodiments herein any type of media player may be used including but not limited to a Macromedia Adobe FLASH Player Apple QuickTime Player Real Player or Microsoft Windows Media Player. Such media players can be part of browsers A B or separate components coupled to browsers A B. In other examples such media players can be part of IM clients A B or separate components coupled to IM clients A B.

For brevity embodiments and the operation of system are further described with respect to routines and in . Routines and are not necessarily limited however to the structure of system .

In step media recognizer B recognizes the presence of the media address in the received chat message and alerts IM server B. IM server B then instructs browser B or IM client B to show media at the media address step . For instance browser B may fetch media at the media address step . IM client B may then display the retrieved media in a conversation window during instant messaging. In one example the media is displayed in the same conversation window where text chat is occurring. In another example a separate window is opened to play media content alongside of the window where text chat is occurring.

Message windows such as window may also support different modes such as in page in line or popout. In page may have the message window as part of the web page flow with fixed width and height. An in line mode may have a chat window inline within a browser window but separate from a chat contact list appear when a cursor is near an area. A pop out message window may be a message window that lives in its own browser chrome.

Other instant messaging functionality such as inputting emoticons and playing sounds may be provided in message windows. A message window in conjunction with a window manager may decide whether or not to play sounds on receipt of new messages.

According to a further embodiment the present invention can also include web connectivity along with presence and instant messaging. is a diagram of an example web connection server supporting IM with media content viewing presence and web connectivity according to another embodiment of the present invention. A web connection server can be used in place of each of IM servers A B. Web connection server includes a presence server and IM server . Presence server manages presence to support instant messaging applications. IM server manages instant messaging between clients as described above with respect to IM servers A B.

A cell renderer may be used in IM client to render each incoming message in a message window. This can support rendering of and interaction with messages. The cell renderer can include elements that are customizable. A motivation for using a cell renderer for each message is that some messages can be set apart. For example offline messages could have a different background color to visually set them apart from new conversation messages. Another example of a cell renderer would be a file transfer progress indicator. In the file transfer case the cell renderer may show progress of the file transfer in progress. Cell renderers may be especially helpful when showing shared content such as a photo or application specific messages that could trigger an action on the current page.

Different cell renderers can be used to support regular instant messaging. A special cell renderer may be used for messages containing emoticons. An emoticon is a string of punctuation in the form of a human face expressing an emotion. When an emoticon string is recognized a graphical icon such as of a smiling frowning or surprised face for example or other image can replace the emoticon in the message. Since FLASH text fields may have very limited support for in lining images however the emoticons may have to be overlaid on top of the text.

Using cell renderers can create an implementation hurdle in a FLASH environment. Since each message is in a separate cell renderer element selection across messages is not necessarily native to FLASH. In one implementation since cell renderers may be FLASH objects implementing a specific application programming interface API cell renderers can be loaded externally. The advantage of doing so is that other properties can build cell renderers to be used for specific message types. For example a photosharing application such as PicasaWeb available from Google Inc. could provide a cell renderer for photos. If a PicasaWeb picture is sent via the client to a contact the message window would download the cell renderer to display the PicasaWeb message for the contact. Similarly a photo album viewer could be created for shared PicasaWeb photo albums and a video viewer could be created for videos from a video sharing service such as Google Video available from Google Inc. and or other services.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been presented. The invention is not limited to these examples. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the invention.

