---

title: Systems and methods for enhancing a seismic data image
abstract: Systems and methods for enhancing the resolution of a seismic data image displayed on a face of a sampling probe. The enhanced image represents a maximum resolution of at least a portion of the seismic data image. The seismic data image is enhanced by extracting seismic data that are perpendicular to a reflection surface that is closest to a center of the sampling probe and positioning the extracted seismic data in a visible planar face of the sampling probe.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07702463&OS=07702463&RS=07702463
owner: Landmark Graphics Corporation, a Halliburton Company
number: 07702463
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071212
---
The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for enhancing the resolution of a seismic data image. The seismic data image may be displayed as a two dimensional or a three dimensional image of seismic data traces sometimes referred to as wiggles or wavelets at interactive rates using a sampling probe.

In the applied sciences various fields of study require the analysis of two dimensional or three dimensional volume data sets wherein each data set may have multiple attributes representing different physical properties. An attribute sometimes referred to as a data value represents a particular physical property of an object within a defined two dimensional or three dimensional space. A data value may for instance be an 8 byte data word which includes 256 possible values. The location of an attribute is represented by x y data value or x y z data value . If the attribute represents pressure at a particular location then the attribute location may be expressed as x y z pressure .

In the medical field a computerized axial topography CAT scanner or magnetic resonance imaging MRI device is used to produce a picture or diagnostic image of some specific area of a person s body typically representing the coordinate and a determined attribute. Normally each attribute within a predetermined location must be imaged separate and apart from another attribute. For example one attribute representing temperature at a predetermined location is typically imaged separate from another attribute representing pressure at the same location. Thus the diagnosis of a particular condition based upon these attributes is limited by the ability to display a single attribute at a predetermined location.

In the field of earth sciences seismic sounding is used for exploring the subterranean geology of an earth formation. An underground explosion excites seismic waves similar to low frequency sound waves that travel below the surface of the earth and are detected by seismographs. The seismographs record the amplitude of seismic waves both direct and reflected at a given location for a given time period. Knowing the time and place of the explosion the time of travel of the waves through the interior can be calculated and used to measure the velocity of the waves in the interior. A similar technique can be used for offshore oil and gas exploration. In offshore exploration a ship tows a sound source and underwater hydrophones. Low frequency e.g. 50 Hz sound waves are generated by for example a pneumatic device that works like a balloon burst. The sounds bounce off rock layers below the sea floor and are picked up by the hydrophones. In either application subsurface sedimentary structures that trap oil such as faults and domes are mapped by the reflective waves.

The use of seismic data to analyze subsurface geological structures such as faults or other stratographic features is relevant to interpreters searching for subsurface mineral and hydrocarbon deposits. Seismic data traces are the record of the reflection of sonic waves from underground. These traces can be denoted as A x y t the reflection amplitude of time t at surface location x y . A wiggle display is a basic graphic representation for seismic applications which may be displayed as a two dimensional or a three dimensional image. The area of the amplitude above and or below a given reference amplitude value for a given wiggle can be filled with colors to enhance the wiggle display for interpretation purposes and therefore make faults and other stratigraphic features revealed by the wiggle display easier to recognize as generally described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 013 218 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The seismic data is collected and processed to produce three dimensional volume data sets comprising voxels or volume elements whereby each voxel may be identified by the x y z coordinates of one of its eight corners or its center. Each voxel also represents a numeric data value attribute associated with some measured or calculated physical property at a particular location. Examples of geological seismic data values include amplitude phase frequency and semblance. Different data values are stored in different three dimensional volume data sets wherein each three dimensional volume data set represents a different data value. When multitude data sets are used the data value for each of the data sets may represent a different physical parameter or attribute for the same geographic space. By way of example a plurality of data sets could include a seismic volume a temperature volume and a water saturation volume. The voxels in the seismic volume can be expressed in the form x y z seismic amplitude . The voxels in the temperature volume can be expressed in the form x y z C. . The voxels in the water saturation volume can be expressed in the form x y z saturation . The physical or geographic space defined by the voxels in each of these volumes is the same. However for any specific spatial location xo yo zo the seismic amplitude would be contained in the seismic volume the temperature in the temperature volume and the water saturation in the water saturation volume. In order to analyze certain sub surface geological structures sometimes referred to as features or events information from different three dimensional volume data sets may be separately imaged in order to analyze the feature or event.

The relationship between a typical wiggle or seismic data trace and a plurality of voxels is described more fully in U.S. Pat. No. 6 690 820 assigned to Landmark Graphics Corporation which is incorporated herein by reference.

The presence of geologic structure typically distorts the view of stratigraphic detail in the conventional variable area and or wiggle trace displays of seismic data often used to interpret subsurface geology. Because the trace is vertical it does not intersect a horizon at right angles which is the direction of maximum resolution.

Geological interpreters often use palinspastic reconstruction to at least approximately reverse geologic time and warp their modern day structural model into a model of the geologic structure as it would have appeared at some past time. Seismic interpreters will sometimes use a seismic paleosection on which some selected horizon is flattened in order to approximately reveal the attitude of deeper structure at the time of deposition of the flattened horizon. In either approach however compaction due to overburden and other changes subsequent to deposition are often ignored.

In 1982 a technique known as downward continuation or wave equation datuming was adapted for horizon flattening in the Society of Exploration Geophysicists Technical Program Expanded Abstracts S8.7 under the title by M. Turhan Taner Ernest E. Cook and Norman S. Neidell. This technique was applied to a stacked seismic section for a more sophisticated and presumably more accurate way to generate paleosections than just arbitrarily shifting each individual trace up or down to flatten a selected horizon. This technique was later extended to prestack seismic data in the article by Oz Yilmaz and Darren Lucas published in Geophysics Vol. 51 No. 7.

The wave equation technique designated as an aid to structural interpreters also removed waveform distortions due to overburden structure and reflector orientation for the particular target horizon being flattened. The wave equation technique further recognized that the process could be reiterated by selecting a deeper horizon and redatuming to it from the previously flattened horizon. While the application was to two dimensional unmigrated seismic data back in that era that technique can also in principle be applied to modern day unmigrated three dimensional data as well. The computational cost of 3D wave equation redatuming is fairly large however making it quite unsuitable in general to interactive seismic interpretation when more than a small handful of seismic horizons are of interest. In addition the need for unmigrated stacked data while quite common back in 1982 imposes an unnatural requirement in the modern era where interpreters are very often provided time migrated volumes as their fundamental input data. However attractive wave equation redatuming might be for unravelling the effects of present day complex overburden and structure there is a need for methods and processes that are far less computationally intensive and only require a time migrated input dataset.

In 1998 an article in Geophysics volume 63 page 743 entitled by Stewart A. Levin rigorously examined the general scientific community perception that unlike wave equation redatuming migration inherently distorted and degraded waveforms for all but the simplest horizontal subsurface geometries. Rejecting then conventional wisdom the author argued that among other things stratigraphic resolution in two dimensional migrated sections is not inherently distorted by subsurface structure but instead is generally only an artifact of the universal choice of vertical trace display. Indeed a horizontal trace display reversed the apparent roles of low and high frequency waveform appearance. It is this insight into the true relationship between iterated wave equation redatuming and seismic time migration that is the launching point for the present invention in addressing the need for interactive interpretation of structurally complex migrated images without distortion and degradation of seismic resolution.

The present invention meets the above needs and overcomes one or more deficiencies in the prior art by providing systems and methods for enhancing the resolution of a seismic data image.

In one embodiment the present invention includes a method for enhancing the resolution of a seismic data image that comprises i positioning a sampling probe around seismic data the seismic data image comprising at least one of the seismic data within the sampling probe and the seismic data intersecting the sampling probe ii extracting the seismic data that are perpendicular to a reflection surface that is closest to a center of the sampling probe iii positioning the extracted seismic data in a visible planar face of the sampling probe to form an enhanced image of the seismic data image and iv displaying the enhanced image.

In another embodiment the present invention includes a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for enhancing the resolution of a seismic data image. The instructions are executable to implement i positioning a sampling probe around seismic data the seismic data comprising at least one of the seismic data within the sampling probe and the seismic data intersecting the sampling probe ii extracting the seismic data that are perpendicular to a reflection surface that is closest to a center of the sampling probe iii positioning the extracted seismic data in a visible planar face of the sampling probe to form an enhanced image of the seismic data image and iv displaying the enhanced image.

Additional aspects advantages and embodiments of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description of the various embodiments and related drawings.

The subject matter of the present invention is described with reference to certain preferred embodiments however is not intended to limit the scope of the invention. The claimed subject matter thus might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described herein and other technologies. Although the term step may be used herein to describe different elements of methods employed the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless otherwise expressly limited by the description to a particular order.

In one embodiment the present invention may be described in the general context of a computer executable program of instructions such as program modules generally referred to as software. The software may include for example routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The software forms an interface to allow a computer to react according to a source of input. The software may also cooperate with other code segments to initiate a variety of tasks in response to data received in conjunction with the source of the received data. The software may be stored onto any variety of memory media such as CD ROM magnetic disk bubble memory and semiconductor memory e.g. various types of RAM or ROM . Furthermore the software and its results may be transmitted over a variety of carrier media such as optical fiber metallic wire free space and or through any of a variety of networks such as the internet.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be implemented in a variety of computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Any number of computer systems and computer networks are therefore acceptable for use with the present invention. The present invention may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment the software may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The present invention may therefore be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof in a computer system or other processing system.

Menu interface software overlays the operating system . The menu interface software are used to provide various menus and windows to facilitate interaction with the user and to obtain user input and instructions. As would be readily apparent to one of skill in the relevant art any number of menu interface software programs could be used in conjunction with the present invention.

A basic graphics library overlays menu interface software . Basic graphics library is an application programming interface API for three dimensional computer graphics. The functions performed by basic graphics library may include for example geometric and raster primitives RGBA or color index mode display list or immediate mode viewing and modeling transformations lighting and shading hidden surface removal alpha blending translucency anti aliasing texture mapping atmospheric effects fog smoke haze feedback and selection stencil planes and accumulation buffer.

A visual simulation graphics library overlays the basic graphics library . The visual simulation graphics library is an API for creating real time multi processed three dimensional visual simulation graphics applications. As will be understood by those skilled in the art the visual simulation graphics library may include a suite of tools for two dimensional and or three dimensional seismic data interpretations including for example interactive horizon and fault management three dimensional visualization and attribute analysis. The visual simulation graphics library therefore provides functions that bundle together graphics library state control functions such as lighting materials texture and transparency. These functions track state and the creation of display lists that can be rendered later.

Overlaying the elements of program previously described is a three dimensional 3D sampling probe program that interfaces with and utilizes the functions carried out by the visual simulation graphics library the basic graphics library the menu interface software and the operating system in the manner described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 765 570 assigned to Landmark Graphics Corporation which is incorporated herein by reference. The sampling probe program visual simulation graphics library basic graphics library menu interface software and operating system are executed on one or more general purpose CPU s as described in the 570 patent. An acceptable CPU may include for example processors marketed by Intel and AMD .

Overlaying the sampling probe program is a waveform module . The waveform module may be written in a procedural language such as for example Open GL Shader Language GLSL which makes it possible to program a Graphics Processing Unit sometimes referred to as a graphics processor graphics accelerator or graphics card hereinafter GPU to achieve visualization effects that are not available using Open GL marketed by Silicon Graphics Inc. and the video hardware i.e. the graphics card. GLSL is well known in the art and is published ISBN 0 321 19789 5 in The Open GL Shading Language. The advantages of programming a conventional GPU instead of a CPU to execute the waveform module are its large number of registers and its architecture which enables massive parallelization of the processors. This architecture can process data in the registers in a few GPU cycles while it may take a few thousand CPU cycles for the same task. GLSL works with individual pixels at u v of the projection plane on a display device. Through GLSL shaders one can determine how a pixel at u v is illuminated. An acceptable GPU for example may include the NVIDIA G 70 graphics card and a Qudro 5500 graphics port marketed by NVIDIA . Other GPU s well known in the art may be acceptable if they are capable of executing fragment pixel shader programs written with GLSL and support at a minimum looping and branching functions.

The waveform module is configured to interface with the sampling probe program . The sampling probe program creates a three dimensional sampling probe in the manner described by the 570 patent which may comprise a subvolume of a waveform volume. In other words the sampling probe program extracts a subvolume data set from the waveform volume which corresponds to a surface of the sampling probe. The waveform module receives the subvolume data set from the sampling probe program and processes the subvolume data set using the GPU to draw at least a portion of an image of the sampling probe on a display device as a two dimensional or a three dimensional image. The image of the sampling probe therefore may comprise an intersection of the sampling probe and the waveform volume or the image may be limited to only an intersection of the sampling probe and the waveform volume.

The waveform module may also be configured to draw at least a portion of an image of the sampling probe on a display device by coloring the subvolume data set and texture mapping the subvolume data set onto the surface of the sampling probe. The subvolume data set may be colored by coloring each seismic data trace in the subvolume data set with a preset trace color color filling each seismic data trace in the subvolume data set with a preset positive fill color or a preset negative fill color and or coloring a remainder of the subvolume data set with the preset background color. In addition the waveform module may be configured to color each seismic data trace by coloring each pixel on the display device with the preset trace color if the pixel intersects a seismic data trace in the subvolume data set. Likewise the module may be configured to color fill each seismic data trace by coloring each pixel on the display device with the preset positive fill color if the pixel intersects the subvolume data set between a seismic data trace maximum positive amplitude and a seismic data trace zero amplitude and coloring each pixel on the display device with the preset negative fill color if the pixel intersects the subvolume data set between a seismic data trace maximum negative amplitude and the seismic data trace zero amplitude. The waveform module may also be configured to color the remainder of the subvolume data set by coloring each pixel on the display device with the preset background color if the pixel does not intersect a seismic data trace and does not intersect the subvolume data set between a seismic data trace maximum positive amplitude or a seismic data trace maximum negative amplitude and a seismic data trace zero amplitude. The image of the sampling probe may be repeatedly drawn in response to movement of the sampling probe within the waveform volume so that as the sampling probe moves through the waveform volume the image of the sampling probe is redrawn at a rate that is sufficiently fast to be perceived as moving in real time. Exemplary methods enabled by the waveform module are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 848 788 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Overlaying the waveform module is an enhancement module . The enhancement module may be written in a procedural language such as for example GLSL. The enhancement module like the waveform module is written on the GPU. The enhancement module is therefore configured to interface with the waveform module and sampling probe program . The enhancement module interfaces with the waveform module and sampling probe program by receiving and processing seismic data from the waveform module and sampling probe program in the form of a three dimensional waveform volume and one or more sampling probes. The enhancement module may be configured to extract seismic data from a sampling probe that is perpendicular to a reflection surface that is closest to a center of the sampling probe. The enhancement module may also be configured to position the extracted seismic data in the visible planar face s of the sampling probe to form an enhanced image of a seismic data image. Exemplary methods enabled by the enhancement module are further described in reference to .

While the present invention is described with reference to processing a three dimensional volume of seismic data traces representing a waveform volume other two dimensional seismic data sets may be processed in the same manner. Geoprobe and PowerView which are commercial software packages marketed by Landmark Graphics Corporation for use in the oil and gas industry are examples of appropriate interface applications. Geoprobe is the commercial embodiment of the sampling probe program which may be used to interface with the waveform module and enhancement module to render a three dimensional image of seismic data traces in real time. Alternatively PowerView may be used to interface with the waveform module and enhancement module to render a two dimensional image of seismic data traces in real time.

The program illustrated in may be executed or implemented through the use of a computer system incorporating the program and various hardware components. The system hardware components may include for example a processor memory e.g. random access memory and or non volatile memory devices one or more input devices one or more display devices and one or more interface devices. These hardware components may be interconnected according to a variety of configurations and may include one or more GPU s and CPU s configured in the manner described in the 570 patent. Non volatile memory devices may include for example devices such as tape drives semiconductor ROM or EEPROM. Input devices may include for example devices such as a keyboard a mouse a digitizing pad a track ball a touch sensitive pad and or a light pen. Display devices may include for example devices such as monitors projectors and or head mounted displays. Interface devices may be configured to require digital image data from one or more acquisition devices and or from one or more remote computers or storage devices through a network. Any variety of acquisition devices may be used depending on the type of object being imaged. The acquisition device s may sense various forms of mechanical energy e.g. acoustic seismic energy displacement and or stress strain . Other well known computer system configurations and components that may be used to execute the program are described in the 570 patent.

Each processor GPU and CPU may be configured to reprogram instructions and or data from RAM and or non volatile memory devices and to store computational results into RAM and or non volatile memory devices. The program directs each processor to operate on a three dimensional volume of seismic data traces and other two dimensional or three dimensional seismic data sets based on the methods described herein.

Referring now to a flow diagram generally illustrates one embodiment of a method for implementing the present invention. The method begins at step with the input of seismic data from a data source using the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to . The data source may include for example a waveform volume comprising geophysical data but may also include other types of seismic data. The data used as input may comprise seismic data traces in a two dimensional image or a three dimensional volume which may be retrieved directly from the waveform module on the GPU or from some other memory or storage medium within the CPU. The input data may be provided to the computer system through a variety of mechanisms. For example the input data may be acquired into non volatile memory and or RAM using one or more interface devices. As another example the input data may be supplied to the computer system through a memory medium such as a disc or a tape which is loaded into or onto one of the non volatile memory devices. In this case the input data will have been previously recorded onto the memory medium. It is noted that the input data may not necessarily be raw sensor data obtain by an acquisition device. For example the input data may be the result of one or more processing operations using a set of raw sensor data. The processing operation s may be performed by the computer system and or one or more other computers. The input data may be stored in a format generally well known in the art and or described in 570 patent.

In step the seismic data is analyzed to determine if it includes one or more predetermined reflection surfaces using techniques well known in the art. If the seismic data includes at least one predetermined reflection surface then the seismic data and the predetermined reflection surface may be displayed at step and the method proceeds to step . If the seismic data however does not include at least one predetermined reflection surface then the method proceeds to step and only the seismic data may be displayed.

In the waveform volume and predetermined reflection surface illustrate the result of step in an exemplary display. The reflection surface is a predetermined interpretation of a surface sometimes referred to as a horizon by interpreters of geophysical data. Optionally the waveform volume may be displayed with one or more sampling probes such as sampling probe and sampling probe . The waveform volume may also be completely or partially transparent. As illustrated in the waveform volume is partially transparent and comprises a plurality of seismic data traces wiggles or wavelets that intersect a large volume and each sampling probe . The selective display of a portion of the waveform volume which is represented by volume provides a point of reference for positioning and moving each sampling probe within the waveform volume . Alternatively the waveform volume may be completely transparent while each sampling probe is displayed as an image of only the intersection of the sampling probe and the waveform volume .

In step the seismic data is scanned for local dip and azimuth information using techniques well known in the art. Each seismic data trace in the waveform volume for example may comprise information confirming at least one of its local dip and its local azimuth.

In step the method determines if the seismic data is migrated using techniques well know in the art. If the seismic data is not migrated then only the surface velocity is retrieved for each seismic data trace and the local dip and azimuth units for each seismic data trace are converted to depth units in step . The method then proceeds to step . If the seismic data however is migrated then the method proceeds to step and determines whether the seismic data is time migrated using techniques well known in the art. If the seismic data is not time migrated then the seismic data is depth migrated and the method proceeds to step . If the seismic data however is time migrated then the method proceeds to step

In step the seismic data wave propagation speed or a reasonable approximation to the migration velocity field is retrieved and the local dip and azimuth units for each seismic data trace are converted to depth units. The method then proceeds to step .

In step a sampling probe is positioned around seismic data comprising at least one of the seismic data within the sampling probe and the seismic data intersecting the sampling probe using the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to . The sampling probe may be two dimensional or three dimensional and may be positioned around a portion of the seismic data and or predetermined reflection surface displayed at step or . The seismic data intersecting the sampling probe may include seismic data within the sampling probe that extends outside of the sampling probe.

In for example two sampling probes are used to illustrate the invention although only one may be required. Each sampling probe is three dimensional and is positioned around a portion of the seismic data traces and the predetermined reflection surface in the waveform volume . The extents of each sampling probe are shown by dashed lines that extend into the volume and the seismic data traces intersecting each visible planar face and respectively.

Referring now to and each planar face of the sampling probe is illustrated respectively. In the predetermined reflection surface and seismic data traces are illustrated where each intersects the planar face . In the predetermined reflection surface and seismic data traces are illustrated where each intersects the planar face . The sampling probe may also include seismic data traces intersecting the sampling probe within its extents planar faces which are not illustrated in and and that may extend outside of sampling probe . Likewise the seismic data traces intersecting each planar face of sampling probe may also extend beyond each visible planar face . Because the reflection surface illustrated in us substantially horizontal the seismic data traces illustrated in and are substantially perpendicular to the reflection surface that is closest to the center of the sampling probe . The seismic data traces illustrated in and therefore are positioned in each planar face respectively and represent a maximum resolution of the seismic data traces . The seismic data illustrated in and may also be referred to as a high resolution stratigraphic image. Quite often however the seismic data traces that are perpendicular to the reflection surface that is closest to the center of a viewing plane or probe do not lie in the same plane as the viewing plane. As a result additional steps are required to enhance the seismic data image in the viewing plane.

Referring now to each planar face of sampling probe is illustrated respectively. In the predetermined reflection surface and seismic data traces are illustrated where each intersects the planar face . In the predetermined reflection surface and seismic data traces are illustrated where each intersects the planar face . The sampling probe may also include seismic data traces intersecting sampling probe within its extents planar faces which are not illustrated in and but which are illustrated in . These seismic data traces may extend outside of sampling probe . Likewise the seismic data traces intersecting each planar face of sampling probe may also extend beyond each visible planar face . Because the reflection surface illustrated in is not substantially horizontal the seismic data traces illustrated in are not substantially perpendicular to the reflection surface that is closest to the center of sampling probe . In other words the seismic data traces that are perpendicular to the reflection surface illustrated in are not positioned in the planar face for maximum resolution. The seismic data traces illustrated in therefore represent a seismic data image that is biased or distorted by the structure or formation that produced the seismic data traces .

As illustrated in the sampling probe is positioned in a different area of the waveform volume than the sampling probe in order to analyze the reflection surface in a different area of the waveform volume . If there is no reflection surface either sampling probe may be positioned in the waveform volume as needed to analyze the seismic data traces in a particular area for possible reflection surfaces representing one or more horizons.

In step the method determines whether the seismic data within the sampling probe and or intersecting the sampling probe includes a predetermined reflection surface using techniques well known in the art. If a predetermined reflection surface is not present then a reflection surface is calculated for the seismic data within the sampling probe and or intersecting the sampling probe at step using the local dip and or azimuth for each seismic data trace within the sampling probe and or intersecting the sampling probe. Depending on whether the sampling probe is two dimensional or three dimensional the local dip 2D or the dip and azimuth 3D may be required at step . The local dip and azimuth information is compiled at step and processed during steps and or until the local dip and azimuth units are confirmed to be or are converted to depth units. If however a predetermined reflection surface is present like the reflection surface illustrated in and then the method proceeds to step .

In step seismic data within the sampling probe and or intersecting the sampling probe that are perpendicular to a predetermined reflection surface or the reflection surface calculated in step which is closest to a center of the sampling probe are extracted. The seismic data are extracted using local dip and or azimuth information for each seismic data trace. If for example the seismic data within the sampling probe and or intersecting the sampling probe includes a predetermined reflection surface then the local dip and or azimuth for each seismic data trace intersecting the predetermined reflection surface may be directly calculated using techniques well known in the art and used to calculate a normal incidence direction for each seismic data trace relative to the predetermined reflection surface. If however the seismic data within the sampling probe and or intersecting the sampling probe do not include a predetermined reflection surface then the local dip and or azimuth for each seismic data trace scanned in step and ultimately used to calculate the reflection surface in step may be used to calculate the normal incidence direction for each seismic data trace relative to the reflection surface that is calculated. Once the normal incidence direction for each seismic data trace relative to the reflection surface predetermined or calculated is known the seismic data within the sampling probe and or intersecting the sampling probe that are perpendicular to the reflection surface which is closest to a center of the sampling probe may be extracted using techniques well know in the art. The following techniques are exemplary well known methods for calculating the normal incidence direction for each seismic data trace relative to a predetermined reflection surface or a calculated reflection surface and extracting the same.

A preferred method for calculating the normal incidence direction for seismic data traces in an unmigrated two dimensional seismic data image at which to extract interpolated samples for the sampling probe display enhanced image is illustrated by . Let the center of the sampling probe be at trace M and time sample N. Denote the spacing between adjacent traces by x meters and the time sampling increment by t milliseconds. Assume that the reflection event slope at the sampling probe center is p milliseconds per trace and denote the surface velocity by v meters per second. Snell s law gives the relation sin 2000 1 for the surface arrival angle of the reflection event. In the subsurface the vertical equivalent of t is given by z 2000 t v meters. Sample the arriving reflection wavefield in the direction normal to the wavefront i.e. in the direction of the arrows in in increments of z and sample the reflection wavefield parallel to the wavefront in increments of x. This sampling ensures that the extracted seismic data traces have the same trace and time sample spacings as the original unmigrated two dimensional seismic data image. Moving one step in the normal direction requires a shift of sin traces to the right and cos time samples up. Moving one step in the parallel direction requires a shift of cos traces to the right and sin time samples up. Thus the locations at which to interpolate within the unmigrated seismic data image in order to extract and populate the sampling probe display are given by trace number M i cos j sin 2 trace sample N i sin j cos 3 where the horizontal trace index i and the vertical sample index j are both zero at the center of the sampling probe display.

For time migrated data the situation is very similar with the exception that Snell s law now becomes tan 2000 4 Here v is given by a migration velocity at the sampling probe location rather than the surface velocity.

For depth migrated data time becomes depth and the sampling for both the horizontal x and vertical z axes of the seismic data traces is in units of meters. If the reflection slope p is measured in samples per trace then tan 5 directly and no velocity is needed to calculate sin and cos .

For a three dimensional seismic data image let be the azimuth in which the reflection surface is dipping most steeply and Mand Mbe the inline and crossline trace numbers of the sampling probe location. Then the above two dimensional calculations for still hold true. Thus p is measured along that azimuth and the corresponding samples to be extracted from the volume to form a stratigraphic sampling probe display enhanced image along that azimuth are trace inline M i cos j sin cos 6 trace crossline M i cos j sin sin 7 time sample N i sin j cos 8 If a perpendicular sampling probe face is available for display then the samples for it are found with cos and sin interchanged in equations 6 8.

In the seismic data traces are perpendicular to the reflection surface . Because the sampling probe illustrated in is three dimensional the predetermined reflection surface which is closest to the center of the sampling probe may be positioned substantially in a plane perpendicular to the visible planar faces of the sampling probe as partially illustrated by . In other words the predetermined reflection surface is reoriented to correspond with a plane substantially perpendicular to the visible planar face . Steps and are therefore illustrated by the exemplary display of the enhanced image and the predetermined reflection surface on the planar face of the sampling probe in .

In an image illustrates the seismic data traces and that intersect the face and the predetermined reflection surface illustrated in . The image is an exemplary display of the seismic data that are extracted during step which are perpendicular to the predetermined reflection surface that is closest to a center of the sampling probe . The seismic data traces extend in front of face and the seismic data traces extend behind the face . The seismic data extracted in the image is therefore not visible in which illustrates a seismic data image comprising seismic data traces intersecting only the visible planar face of the sampling probe . The rest of step is completed by positioning the extracted seismic data from the image in the visible planar face which is illustrated in and produces an enhanced image of the seismic data image illustrated in . The seismic data traces are therefore brought into the plane of the planar face to maximum the resolution of the seismic data image illustrated in .

According to step the extracted seismic data are then positioned in the visible planar face s of a two dimensional or three dimensional sampling probe to form an enhanced image of the seismic data image. For example a normal incidence direction of the predetermined reflection surface or the reflection surface calculated at step may be reoriented to correspond with a plane substantially parallel to the visible planar face s of the sampling probe.

In step the predetermined reflection surface or the reflection surface calculated at step which is closest to the center of the sampling probe may be positioned substantially in a plane perpendicular to the visible planar faces of a three dimensional sampling probe. For example the predetermined reflection surface or the reflection surface calculated at step may be reoriented to correspond with a plane substantially perpendicular to the visible planar faces of a three dimensional sampling probe.

In step the enhanced image including any predetermined reflection surface or the reflection surface calculated at step may be displayed on the visible planar face s of the sampling probe.

In step the enhanced image may be optionally displayed with or without a predetermined reflection surface or the reflection surface calculated at step in a separate display window for unbiased stratigraphic analysis and comparison using the graphical user interface tools menu interface software described in reference to . For example a separate display window may be desired to compare the enhanced image with another enhanced image of a calculated reflection surface and or the initial seismic data image for consistency. Likewise multiple sampling probes may be used for comparison of enhanced images as illustrated in .

Referring now to another embodiment of a method for implementing the present invention is illustrated. The method illustrated in contains the same steps as the method illustrated in except that certain steps have been reordered to emphasize that the present invention is not limited to any particular order among or between the various steps disclosed herein.

Present invention improves the ability to recognize and process amplitude variation patterns and other attribute anomalies indicative of hydrocarbon resources. Because the systems and methods described herein may be used to selectively and interactively analyze various types of seismic data traces they may be particularly useful for analyzing medical data or geophysical data however may also find utility for analyzing and interpreting any other type of waveform data.

While the present invention has been described in connection with presently preferred embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that it is not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. It is therefore contemplated that various alternative embodiments and modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention defined by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

