---

title: Mono-slab laser cavity
abstract: A YAG/Nd:YAG block where an Nd:YAG block ends in a peak integrated inside a YAG block. The YAG block has reflective surfaces positioned at 45° to one another. The angled reflective surfaces serve as a “mirror” within the laser cavity to effectively increase the length of the cavity by a factor greater than 2. Fused to the output end of the laser cavity are a polarizer, an active/passive Q-switch, a one quarter waveplate and an output coupler. In operation, the laser cavity is pumped either from the side or the end of the cavity. The optical components of the present invention are bonded to form one optical ‘block’. All the components are prealigned during the crystal manufacturing process to form the optical laser cavity. The width of the cavity should be selected such that nearly all of the laser diode pump output is absorbed by the cavity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07751462&OS=07751462&RS=07751462
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07751462
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070314
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

The present invention generally relates to laser cavities and more particularly to a mono slab laser cavity.

The present invention is an improvement to the monoblock laser described and claimed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 556 614 entitled Monolithic Solid State LASER Assembly and Method of Manufacture issued Apr. 29 2003. This patent is incorporated herein by reference with only the necessary parts being duplicated in this specification.

The invention described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 556 614 is a photon pumped laser cavity assembly consisting of a pair of coaxial rods made from laser gain material with precisely cut side faces and end faces. Some of the end faces are covered by at least one of a dielectric or metal coating highly reflective to the laser output beam a wafer of polarizing material and a dielectric or metal coating partially reflective to the laser beam. More details of this prior art will be described in the Detailed Description of the Invention.

Laser range finders are becoming an increasingly vital component in high precision targeting engagements. The precise and accurate range to target information is an essential variable to the fire control equation of most weapon systems. Unfortunately current fielded laser range finders are bulky heavy and expensive. These laser range finders were not developed with the idea that they would be carried by forces.

The monoblock laser described in the U.S. Pat. No. 6 556 614 makes the development fabrication of a low cost compact laser range finder feasible. Unfortunately the size of the monoblock laser still could be smaller.

There is a need to make monoblock lasers smaller. Accordingly one object of the present invention is to make the development fabrication of a very compact laser range finder designator feasible. The invention includes a YAG Nd YAG block in which an Nd YAG block ending in a peak is integrated inside a YAG block. The YAG block is configured such that it has reflective surfaces positioned at 45 to one another. The angled reflective surfaces serve as a mirror within the laser cavity to increase the length of the cavity by a factor greater than 2. At the output end of the laser cavity a polarizer an active passive Q switch a one quarter waveplate and an output coupler are fused to the end. In operation the laser cavity is pumped either from the side or the end of the cavity. The optical components of the present invention are bonded diffusion or optical epoxy to form one optical block . All the components are prealigned during the crystal manufacturing process to form the optical laser cavity. The width of the cavity should be selected such that nearly all of the laser diode pump output is absorbed by the cavity.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the invention provides the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative embodiments of the invention. These embodiments are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the invention may be employed. Other objects advantages and novel features of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

In the detailed description that follows identical components have been given the same reference numerals.

Referring now to the drawings and initially to illustrates a mono slab laser cavity with a laser diode pump . In a preferred embodiment of the invention the invention includes a YAG Nd YAG block in which an Nd YAG having a peaked end is integrated inside a YAG block. The YAG block is configured such that it has reflective surfaces positioned at 45 to one another. The angled reflective surfaces serve as a mirror within the laser cavity to increase the length of the cavity by a factor greater than 2. At the output end of the laser cavity are typical laser elements including a polarizer an active passive Q switch a one quarter waveplate and an output coupler.

In operation the laser cavity is pumped either from the side or the end of the cavity. The optical components of the present invention are bonded diffusion or optical epoxy to form one optical block . All the components are prealigned during the crystal manufacturing process to form the optical laser cavity. The width of the cavity should be selected such that nearly all of the laser diode pump output is absorbed by the cavity. The one quarter waveplate is only required if an active Q switch is selected for use.

As shown in the laser cavity itself is block of Nd YAG with a peaked end . The peaked end of the Nd YAG block is integrated in the YAG block which is configured such that it is a female counterpart to the peaked end of the Nd YAG block . The angles of the peaked end and the female counterpart of the YAG block are preferably 45 . The outer four sides two shown of Nd YAG block have surfaces that are a Highly Reflective HR surface e.g. 808 nm and the reflective surfaces of the peaked end are at e.g. HR 1064 nm. The end where the laser diode pump is preferably positioned is an Antireflective AR surface e.g. 808 nm . The opposite end of the Nd YAG is split so that one portion is reflective at HR 1064 nm and the output is configured to have a surface of AR 1064 nm. Attached to the output is a polarizer then an active passive Q switch a one quarter waveplate and an output coupler . The one quarter waveplate is only required if an active Q switch is selected for use. The physical dimensions of the cavity can essentially be halved from conventional monoblock lasers in that the effective cavity length is virtually doubled by this configuration.

From this description and those skilled in the art could engineer any number of anti highly reflective surfaces and laser cavity configurations with a peaked end to reduce the size of the laser cavity. For example shows such an alternate configuration.

Referring now to illustrates another embodiment of a mono slab laser cavity and a laser diode pump . Instead of having the peaked end of the Nd YAG block integrated in a YAG block in one embodiment a YAG block can be integrated inside a Nd YAG block but is not required. The integrated YAG block acts as a spacer and increases efficiency of entire laser cavity i.e. the YAG block doesn t absorb the pump at the edge of the optics. So long as the peaked end has a highly reflectively coating e.g. HR 1064 nm the laser cavity will still laze with a diode pump being pumped from the side on the Nd YAG block . On the side of the pumping diode there is an antireflective coating e.g. AR 808 nm and on the opposite side of the block a highly reflective coating e.g. HR 808 nm . Instead of having a split output end as shown in the output end of the alternate configuration has an antireflective coating with a highly reflective mirror positioned on one side of the block . On the other side of the output end are the polarizer the active passive Q switch the one quarter waveplate and the output coupler .

All the optical components previously described may be fabricated in YAG based materials. This lends to robust dependable operation over a wide range of thermal conditions a laser must operate. Other materials may be used in the invention if conditions allow. For example Nd YVO4 Nd YLF Nd YAP and others are all candidate materials that may benefit from the invention s configuration.

The invention simplifies the producibility of a laser range finder designator system. The fabrication of the invention can be done using batch processing. Large rectangular precoated optical components can be joined together optically aligned to form the laser cavity and then sliced to produce modules. This batch process can greatly reduce the overall fabrication costs of the module.

The invention is a module that requires none of the labor extensive alignment procedures of current laser range finders designators. No optical holders have to be fabricated no complex engineering is required to design the optical cavity and no precise laser cavity alignments are required. Production labor and material cost are therefore greatly reduced.

The invention is a modular component and thus it lends itself to ease of design for different pump sources. It can be incorporated in a flash lamp pumped or laser diode pumped system. In particular it can be quite easily coupled with a laser diode stack array for end pumping which gives an extremely wide operating temperature range. The energy of the pump source e.g. drive electronics can be tailored for the specific mission e.g. long range vs. medium range performance without forcing all of the systems to the high demand requirements of the few. In particular the cavity is configured for optimal absorption for diode laser pumping over broad temperature ranges.

The present invention may be used as the laser source in very compact laser range finders or laser designators. It can be coupled with an optical parametric oscillator OPO cavity for generation of an eye safe laser output for eye safe laser range finding. These laser rangefinders have both military and commercial applications. The compact design of the invention also lends itself to placement in other laser based portable handheld devices. These may be medical devices industrial tools or scientific equipment that would benefit from the size weight reduction dependable performance and low cost of the laser cavity.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to certain preferred embodiments it is obvious that equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components assemblies devices sensors circuits etc the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component i.e. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary embodiments of the invention. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several embodiments such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other embodiments as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

