---

title: RF to optical converter for RF imaging with optical sensors
abstract: A radio frequency (RF) to optical converter for RF imaging, wherein the converter comprises an array of RF antenna pixels adapted to receive RF signals, wherein the RF antenna pixels are adapted to facilitate RF resonance of the received RF signals; a photonic band gap (PBG) layer connected to the array of RF antenna pixels, the PBG layer comprising at least two materials, arranged in a photonic crystal (PC), wherein at least one of the materials comprises an electro-optic (EO) material, wherein the EO material is adapted to use the RF resonant signals to produce changes in optical properties of the EO material, and wherein the PC is adapted to use changes in optical properties of the EO material to produce enhanced changes in optical properties of the PBG layer; and an RF ground plane connected to the PBG layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07409116&OS=07409116&RS=07409116
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07409116
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070223
---
The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payments of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to radio frequency RF and photonics and more particularly to near millimeter wave NMMW terahertz TH and microwave MW imaging for use in remote sensing either active or passive and especially through obscurants security scanning medical scanning and related applications.

Within the context of the embodiments herein RF includes MW NMMW and TH radiation. By historical convention these wavelengths are commonly referred to in the literature as RF even though the wavelengths are much shorter than those used for radio.

Imaging systems may be active meaning that they include a source of radiation other than the object being viewed. Commonplace examples of active imaging systems are x ray machines and cameras with a flash. Imaging systems may also be passive meaning that they utilize only ambient radiation coming from the object of interest. Commonplace examples are cameras and camcorders using only daylight and infrared viewers for rifle sights medical imaging or satellite imagery.

RF active and passive imaging systems are complementary to visible light and infrared IR imaging because they encompass wavelength windows for transmission through fog rain and certain materials and can be used day and night. Also certain RF wavelengths may have absorption spectrum features for certain chemical or biochemical species. Therefore RF imaging systems have important applications for the military homeland security civilian aviation automobile safety and medical diagnosis.

Generally there have been a limited number of previously known RF imaging systems. Typically these have been and are being developed with traditional radar technology that involves sophisticated and expensive electronic circuitry and systems. In addition previously known systems have generally not proven wholly satisfactory in operation. An important restriction so far has been in the small number of pixels which is due to the need in these previous systems to directly couple each pixel to a RF detector containing active circuitry to down convert the very high frequency RF to a low frequency signal that can be handled with conventional electronics. These RF detectors tend to be expensive heavy and consume large amounts of electrical power. In fact the production and operating costs of the RF detectors are such that most RF imaging systems must typically employ scanning techniques to enable them to produce images with only a one dimensional 1D array of detectors or even with only one detector. Accordingly there remains a need for a relatively inexpensive and user friendly RF imaging system.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a RF to optical converter for RF imaging wherein the converter comprises an array of RF antenna pixels adapted to receive RF signals wherein the RF antenna pixels are adapted to facilitate RF resonance of the received RF signals a photonic band gap PBG layer connected to the array of RF antenna pixels the PBG layer comprising at least two materials arranged in a photonic crystal PC wherein at least one of the materials comprises an electro optic EO material wherein the EO material is adapted to use the RF resonant signals to produce changes in optical properties of the EO material and wherein the PC is adapted to use changes in optical properties of the EO material to produce enhanced changes in optical properties of the PBG layer and an RF ground plane connected to the PBG layer. Preferably the use of the RF resonant signals comprises any of reflecting the optical light transmitting the optical light and a combination of both. Preferably the optical properties comprise any of absorption reflection and phase delay. The converter further comprises at least one RF imaging system adapted to image the RF signals onto the array of RF antenna pixels.

The converter may further comprise at least one optical imaging system adapted to illuminate the PBG layer with optical light and process either or both of the reflected and transmitted light in order to form optical images wherein the optical images form a one to one correspondence with the RF signals. Preferably the PBG layer comprises a spatial repetition of the at least two materials. Additionally the converter may further comprise a prism adjacent to the RF ground plane.

Another embodiment provides a system for converting RF signals to optical images wherein the system comprises a patch of RF antenna pixels adapted to receive RF signals wherein the patch of RF antenna pixels are adapted to facilitate RF resonance of the received RF signals at least one RF imaging system adapted to image the RF signals onto the patch of RF antenna pixels a PBG layer connected to the patch of RF antenna pixels the PBG layer comprising at least two materials arranged in a PC wherein at least one of the materials comprises an EO material wherein the EO material is adapted to use the RF resonant signals to produce changes in optical properties of the EO material and wherein the PC is adapted to use changes in optical properties of the EO material to produce enhanced changes in optical properties of the PBG layer an RF ground plane connected to the PBG layer an optical source adapted to transmit optical light and at least one optical imaging system adapted to illuminate the PBG layer with optical light and process either or both of reflected and transmitted light in order to form optical images wherein the optical images form a one to one correspondence with the RF signals.

Moreover the use of the RF resonant signals comprises any of reflecting the optical light transmitting the optical light and a combination of both. Preferably the optical properties comprise any of absorption reflection and phase delay. Additionally the PBG layer preferably comprises a spatial repetition of the at least two materials. Furthermore the system may comprise a prism adjacent to the RF ground plane. Also the system may further comprise a pair of optical imaging systems and a beam splitter adapted to split the optical light to the pair of optical imaging systems. Moreover the beam splitter may comprise any of a cube and a plate. Additionally the system may further comprise an optical mirror and a beam splitter adapted to split the optical light to the at least one optical imaging system and the optical mirror.

Another embodiment provides a method of converting RF signals to optical images wherein the method comprises receiving RF signals through an array of RF antenna pixels receiving optical light from a transmitting optical system sending the RF signals and the optical light both into a PBG layer sandwiched between the array of RF antennal pixels and a RF ground plane the PBG layer comprising at least two materials arranged in a PC wherein at least one of the materials comprises an EO material wherein the EO material is adapted to use the RF resonant signals to produce changes in optical properties of the EO material and wherein the PC is adapted to use changes in optical properties of the EO material to produce enhanced changes in optical properties of the PBG layer and creating an optical image from the optical light exiting the PBG layer. Preferably the use of the RF resonant signals comprises any of reflecting the optical light transmitting the optical light and a combination of both.

Additionally the method may further comprise imaging the RF signals onto the array of RF antenna pixels. Preferably the optical properties comprise any of absorption reflection and phase delay. Also the method may further comprise processing either or both of the reflected and transmitted light in order to form optical images wherein the optical images form a one to one correspondence with the RF signals. Moreover the method may further comprise splitting the optical light to a pair of optical detectors. Furthermore the method may further comprise splitting the optical light to the at least one optical detector and an optical mirror. Also the method may further comprise shifting an output direction of the optical light. Additionally the enhanced changes in the optical properties of the PBG layer comprise an enhancement of at least a factor of ten.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

As mentioned there remains a need for a relatively inexpensive and user friendly RF imaging system. The embodiments herein achieve this by providing a RF to optical converter for RF imaging with optical sensors. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

The embodiments herein utilize the electro optic EO effect in which an electric field changes the optical refractive index of a material. Materials have been developed recently that have a very high EO coefficient coupled with an ability to respond very quickly even at frequencies in the RF regime e.g. 100 GHz . In the embodiments herein the RF provides the electric field which the EO material converts into a change in the optical refractive index. This refractive index change can be interrogated using light at optical wavelengths visible or near IR such as telecommunications wavelengths . The 100 GHz i.e. 10 variation is much slower than the optical frequency which is on the order of PHz i.e. 10Hz .

When two or more materials with different refractive indices are periodically arranged in one two or three dimensions the resulting anisotropic structure is called a photonic crystal PC . If appropriate geometric parameters are chosen the PC may have one or more directions in which light cannot propagate if its wavelength is within a certain range. This is known as a photonic band gap PBG in analogy with the electronic band gaps of solid state physics. Strictly speaking PCs are generally infinite in extent however in practice it has been found that a limited number of repeat units i.e. unit cells or periods can produce pseudo PBGs. The reflectivity of pseudo PCs can be nearly 100 within the pseudo PBG and it is common practice not to use the pseudo prefix in most cases.

The embodiments herein are preferably suited for use in a two dimensional 2D array. In a 2D embodiment the embodiments herein provide a direct conversion of an RF image into an optical image with a passive 2D focal plane array receiver plate RF to optical converter . On the front side of the RF to optical converter the RF image is focused on a 2D pixel array of patch antenna pixels . The RF resonance occurs in the middle PBG layer formed by a high performance EO dielectric material between the patch antenna pixels and the ground plane layer . In order to increase the sensitivity for the optical change the EO material is artificially made into a PC structure with a band gap near or at the optical wavelength may or may not be a single wavelength used for readout. Optical light incident on the back side of the RF to optical converter is preferentially reflected or transmitted depending on the geometry and application at pixels with a larger RF field strength and is imaged onto a 2D array of optical detectors not shown in such as a digital optical camera. The RF image is thereby converted to an optical image.

In the first embodiment shown in an interceding RF imaging system which may be embodied as an RF objective lens images the incoming RF signal onto the RF converter cavity . The RF converter cavity comprises the array of RF patch antenna pixels combined with the PBG layer and RF ground plane . The imaging of the RF is schematically depicted with arrows in and the optical PC PBG structure is schematically depicted as a one dimensional 1D repetition of layers of two materials one or both of which is an EO material. Again with respect to the optical source comprises a narrow band source such as a laser and may be tunable. The optical source imaging system may be embodied as a pair of lenses that expand and collimate the source light. The optical light interacts with the PC PBG structure and the reflectivity of each pixel depends upon the RF field at each RF patch antenna pixel . The pixels are imaged onto the optical detector by the optical detector imaging system which may be embodied as an objective lens. For example the optical detector could be embodied as a charge coupled device CCD detector array similar to those used in off the shelf digital cameras a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS array a specially made detector array a scanned p type intrinsic n type diode PIN photodiode or any other appropriate optical detector including photographic film.

The second embodiment shown in is similar to the first embodiment of except the second embodiment of further includes a beam splitter which may be embodied as a cube plate etc. and another optical detector. Part of the optical light from the optical source system goes immediately to the first optical detector . Another part of the optical light from the optical source system interacts with the PC of the PBG layer and goes to the second optical detector . The readout from the first optical detector can be used as a reference and subtracted from the readout of the second optical detector in order to increase the sensitivity and dynamic range of the RF detection of the system. Moreover there may be other imaging elements that are not shown in which would allow independent choice of the sizes of the various elements shown. For example the optical detectors and the beam splitter may have a much smaller width than the RF to optical converter .

The third embodiment shown in is similar to the second embodiment of except the third embodiment substitutes a mirror for the first optical detector of . Part of the optical light from the optical source system goes immediately to the mirror from which the optical light reflects and goes to the optical detector . This is the reference beam. The other part of the optical light from the optical source system interacts with the PC of the PBG layer and goes to the optical detector . This is the signal channel. The reference and signal channels interfere at the optical detector allowing extraction of the RF image with reduced electronic signal processing. This embodiment shows one example of how RF induced phase changes in the optical light can be measured as well as RF induced magnitude changes.

The fourth embodiment shown in is similar to the first embodiment of except the fourth embodiment includes a prism . For clarity most of the elements repeated from the first embodiment of are not shown in . The general difference is that the RF interaction with the EO PBG structure primarily causes a shift in the output direction of the optical light rather than primarily in its magnitude or phase. The direction shift is caused by the so called super prism effect.

Additionally the method may further comprise imaging the RF signals onto the array of RF antenna pixels . Preferably the optical properties comprise any of absorption reflection and phase delay. Also the method may further comprise processing either or both of the reflected and transmitted light in order to form optical images wherein the optical images form a one to one correspondence with the RF signals. Moreover the method may further comprise splitting the optical light to a pair of optical detectors . Furthermore the method may further comprise splitting the optical light to the at least one optical detector and an optical mirror . Also the method may further comprise shifting an output direction of the optical light. Additionally the enhanced changes in the optical properties of the PBG layer comprises an enhancement of at least a factor of ten.

The embodiments herein provide a RF to optical converter device that passively converts RF signals into a change either in magnitude or phase or polarization or a combination thereof in reflectivity from and or transmission through a PBG structure wherein the PBG structure is fabricated from at least two different materials at least one of which is an EO material i.e. has an EO coefficient at least greater than 0.1 pm V and preferably greater than 100 pm V and the reflectivity and or transmission change being in the optical regime e.g. visible IR and therefore measurable in one or more of a variety of ways using an optical source system and optical detectors .

According to different embodiments the entire RF to optical converter device may be embodied as a single converter or a linear array of converters or a two dimensional array of converters. The RF to optical converter device can be made in sections to improve fabrication yield. Moreover the PBG structure may be one two or three dimensional. The collection of long wavelength radiation may be accomplished or enhanced using one or more horns and or antennae and or cavities. Furthermore the material used for the RF antenna pixels and the RF ground plane may be metal or some other conductor and it may be a material that is transparent to optical wavelengths e.g. indium tin oxide .

The PBG change may be determined in a variety of ways for example by measuring the intensity change at a single optical detector or the intensity difference at two optical detectors or the intensity of optically interfered light that has followed two paths to a single optical detector or the angular deviation induced by the super prism effect using prism . The optical detection may be accomplished in a variety of ways for example film CCD arrays digital cameras photodiodes etc. The overall system provided by the embodiments herein may include additional elements such as for imaging e.g. lenses mirrors or scanning e.g. rotating mirrors or balancing or tuning e.g. phase retarders filters or signal enhancement e.g. choppers averagers lock in amplifiers .

Rather than down converting the RF to lower frequencies using expensive electronics the electric field of the RF is used to induce changes in the optical properties of the EO material comprising PBG layer which is entirely passive. These optical property changes affect the propagation of optical light and this can be measured with relatively inexpensive optical systems . Generally the RF image is up converted in parallel to an optical image. However this is not a nonlinear optical process the RF light is not being combined with or converted to optical light and it does not affect the frequency of the optical light being used for readout. Moreover although the optical image will still vary periodically at the RF frequency the optical systems will automatically time average this signal over many RF periods.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

