---

title: System and method for reducing return errors
abstract: A system and method for error reduction may reduce errors of tax returns filed with a taxing authority. The system and method for error reduction may include an error reduction component that may compare user-supplied tax information to corresponding tax entity information accessed from a taxing authority. The error reduction component may present the corresponding tax information to the user. If a discrepancy is detected by the error reduction component, the error reduction component may notify the user so that the discrepancy may be corrected before a tax return containing the discrepant information is filed with a taxing authority. The error reduction component may enable a user to correct discrepancies in user-supplied tax information and/or corresponding tax entity information possessed by a taxing authority. In various embodiments, the error reduction component may be implemented with a tax preparation application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07917411&OS=07917411&RS=07917411
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 07917411
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070131
---
Before filing a tax return with a taxing authority a tax entity e.g. an individual business or organization subject to taxation may receive tax information to be reported on the tax return. For example the tax entity may receive a wage and tax statement from an employer or a statement of interest income from a financial institution e.g. a bank investment firm or any other appropriate financial institution . One or more of the received forms may contain tax information such as annual income earned and or amount of taxes withheld that may need to be reported on the tax return. A user such as the tax entity or a tax preparer preparing a tax return on behalf of the tax entity may utilize the tax information to complete a tax return e.g. via a tax preparation application and file it with a taxing authority e.g. IRS state authority local authority foreign authority . In addition to the information received from third parties the user may also use other information of the tax entity such as an identification number e.g. Social Security Number or Employer Identification Number dependent information tax deduction information or any other information that might be useful for the completion of a tax return.

A taxing authority may receive tax entity information corresponding to a tax entity form one or more sources. For example one or more third parties may send to the taxing authority tax information that pertains to a specific tax entity. Typically the information that the taxing authority receives from third parties for a particular tax entity correlates to the information that the particular tax entity receives from the third parties. A taxing authority may require that the third parties that send tax information to tax entities also send corresponding tax information to the taxing authority. In addition to the information received from third parties the taxing authority may also have or have access to additional records that pertain to specific tax entities. For example the taxing authority may have access to a database of identification numbers e.g. Social Security Numbers or Employer Identification Numbers for specific tax entities.

The taxing authority may use the tax information received from third parties as well as additional records to verify information reported on a tax entity s tax return. When the taxing authority receives a tax return from the tax entity the taxing authority may verify some of the information of the tax return with information received for example from the tax entity s employer s . For instance if the tax entity s tax return indicates the tax entity earned 50 000 for a specific time period and the employer s reports the tax entity earned 51 000 during that time period the taxing authority may determine that a discrepancy exists between the information of the tax return and the information submitted by the tax entity s employer s . This type of error may occur for various reasons. For example the tax entity may have forgotten to report income from a secondary income source such as an interest earning bank account or part time job. In other cases the tax entity may not have received documents pertaining to income earned and thus failed to report the correct amount of income in the tax return.

Typically when an error is detected by the taxing authority the taxing authority may notify the tax entity that an error requiring correction has been detected. In some cases the tax entity may be required to pay additional taxes to the taxing authority as a result of correcting the errors. It may be desirable to detect the error s before the tax entity submits the tax return to the taxing authority. Tax entities tax preparers and or tax preparation applications e.g. applications that create tax returns for tax entities based on tax information provided by the tax entities may detect some types of errors within tax returns. However many types of tax return errors such as the errors and discrepancies described above are not detected before filing the tax return with a taxing authority.

A system and method for reducing return errors of returns filed with an authority is described. In some cases the information that an entity reports on a return may be incorrect or inconsistent with corresponding entity information possessed by an authority. For example if the entity were a taxable entity and the authority were a taxing authority the information that the entity reports on a return might include information pertaining to income. The system and method for reducing return errors may include a software application or other system that includes an error reduction component that may reduce errors detected by an authority by prior to filing a return with the authority detecting differences or discrepancies between user supplied entity information and corresponding entity information possessed by the authority. The user of the application may be an entity seeking to reduce errors associated with their own return or another entity e.g. a tax preparer seeking to reduce errors on the entity s behalf.

In one embodiment the error reduction component may be part of a return preparation application such as an application configured to create a return from user supplied information. The error reduction component may request and receive corresponding entity information that corresponds to the user supplied information from an authority. The preparation application may compare the user supplied information to the corresponding entity information received from the taxing authority and determine differences or inconsistencies between the information. The preparation application may enable the user to correct the errors and inconsistencies in order to reduce the number of errors when filing a tax return that includes user supplied tax information.

While the system and method for reducing return errors is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the system and method for reducing return errors is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit embodiments to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the system and method for reducing return errors as defined by the appended claims. Any headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used herein the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Although the descriptions provided herein are given in terms of tax entities tax information user supplied tax information tax returns tax entity information and taxing authorities the system and methods described herein may apply to other entities information returns and authorities. In general a return may include any filing required by an authority agency or other organization. The descriptions provided herein may apply to returns required by other agencies e.g. services oversight or compliance organizations authorities or other agencies governmental or otherwise such as electronically filing statements including e.g. payroll data financial statements or a Securities and Exchange Commission SEC returns e.g. form 10 K or 10 Q .

A system and method for error reduction may reduce errors of returns e.g. tax returns filed with an authority e.g. a taxing authority . In various embodiments an error reduction component of an application or other system may reduce or reduce errors of a filed return. The error reduction component may receive information supplied by a user e.g. a tax entity or an entity acting on behalf of the tax entity . For example the error reduction component may receive from the user a return or other information that is typically reported on a return e.g. earnings information dependent information and identification numbers . Additionally the error reduction component may request and receive corresponding tax entity information for the specific tax entity from a taxing authority. In many cases the corresponding tax entity information may be information that the taxing authority has received from one or more information providers such as employers banks financial institutions or any other appropriate information provider whether required by law or not. For example an employer may report an employee s earnings information to the taxing authority.

The error reduction component may compare the user supplied information to the corresponding entity information received from the authority in order to determine if one or more differences or discrepancies exist between the information and thereafter notify the user of the difference before a return including the user supplied information is filed with an authority. In this way any errors may be detected before a return including the user supplied information is filed with an authority thereby reducing errors detected by the authority when the return is filed with the authority. For example in various embodiments the error reduction component may be implemented within a tax preparation application e.g. an application that creates a tax return from tax information supplied by a user . In some embodiments the error reduction component may enable a user to correct differences between user supplied information and corresponding entity information e.g. tax entity information received from an authority e.g. a taxing authority .

Application may be any application that includes an error reduction component such as error reduction component . In some embodiments application may be a tax preparation application such as an application configured to create a tax return from tax information provided to the tax preparation application. For example application may present a series of displays e.g. through a computer monitor that prompt the user for tax information and create a tax return from tax information that the user supplies. Additionally application may run on a variety of devices capable of running an application. In one embodiment application may run on a computer system such as a desktop computer or notebook computer. In some embodiments application may run on a remote server such as an application server or web server. For example application may be a web based application running on an application server and configured to be accessed from a web browser of another computer e.g. a client computer . In other embodiments application may run on a portable device such as a personal digital assistant PDA PDA phone smart phone or mobile phone.

Application may include an error reduction component such as error reduction component that may reduce errors of tax returns filed with a taxing authority. The error reduction component may reduce or reduce errors of tax returns filed with a taxing authority by providing a user e.g. a tax entity or entity acting on behalf of the tax entity with tax entity information that a taxing authority has on record for a specific entity or entities for a particular return filing period. Since errors e.g. such as matching errors may occur when a user files with a taxing authority a tax return that contains information that is inconsistent with corresponding tax entity information that the taxing authority has on record for the tax entity that the tax return is associated with receiving the corresponding tax entity information from the taxing authority before the tax return is filed may reduce tax return errors when filing a tax return with the taxing authority for a particular return filing period. In other words if a user receives the corresponding tax entity information before filing the tax return with the taxing authority the information within the tax return may be corrected to be consistent or more consistent with the corresponding tax entity information before the tax return is filed with the taxing authority. For example if the tax information included within the user s tax return indicates that the tax entity earned 50 000 during a specific time period and the corresponding tax entity information indicates that the tax entity earned 51 000 during the specific time period the discrepancy may be corrected before filing the tax return. For instance the user may correct the earned amount to be consistent with the corresponding tax entity information before filing the tax return. Alternatively such as in the case that the user believes the corresponding tax entity information to be incorrect the user may contact the taxing authority to resolve the discrepancy before filing the tax return.

In order to provide the user with the corresponding tax entity information the error reduction component may access tax entity information from a taxing authority such as taxing authority . Tax entity information may include information that a taxing authority has on record for specific tax entities. For example the records of a taxing authority may include tax related information associated with specific tax entities such as information pertaining to earnings investments estates dependents tax deductions and other tax related items. In some cases the information included in the records of the taxing authority may have been supplied to the taxing authority by third parties such as the information providers described above e.g. employers financial institutions partnerships trusts and other organizations that a tax entity is associated with . In some cases the information included in the records of the taxing authority for a specific tax entity corresponds to information that the specific tax entity has received from information providers. For example an employer may send a form containing wage information e.g. an IRS Form W 2 to a tax entity. The employer may also send a corresponding form e.g. IRS Form W 2 or another document containing similar information to the taxing authority. Additionally the taxing authority may have or have access to information other than tax information sent from information providers. For example the taxing authority may have records that correlate specific identification numbers e.g. Social Security Numbers or Employer Identification Numbers to specific tax entities.

To access the tax entity information from a taxing authority such as taxing authority error reduction component may send a request for tax entity information that corresponds to a specific tax entity or entities over a network e.g. network . For example the error reduction component may include an identification number of a tax entity e.g. a Social Security Number or Employer Identification number within the request. The taxing authority may service the request by transmitting the tax entity information to error reduction component over a network such as network . In various embodiments the taxing authority may provide a web service or API such that the taxing authority may service requests sent to service provider interface . Additionally the error reduction component may send requests for tax entity information to service provider interface from service requester interface . For example the request for tax entity information may be sent to the service provider interface as a Remote Procedure Call RPC over Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or a Representation State Transfer REST web service request.

In various embodiments the user of an application that includes error reduction component may provide the error reduction component with tax information. In other words error reduction component may receive tax information from a user of the application such as a tax entity e.g. an individual or business or an entity acting on behalf of the tax entity e.g. a tax preparer . The tax information that error reduction component may receive from a user may include information from tax documents sent to a tax entity from information providers such as employers financial institutions partnerships trusts and other organizations that the tax entity is associated with. For example a tax document may include a document containing earnings information e.g. IRS Form W 2 sent to an employee the tax entity from an employer the information provider . In further example a tax document may include a document containing interest income e.g. IRS Form 1099 INT sent to a client the tax entity from a financial institution the information provider . Error reduction component may also include information that is not necessarily provided by information providers. For example error reduction component may receive personal information from a user such as tax entity contact information e.g. addresses and phone numbers .

In various embodiments error reduction component may compare tax information received from a user e.g. a tax entity or an entity acting on behalf of the tax entity to corresponding tax entity information received from a taxing authority e.g. taxing authority in order to determine any differences or discrepancies between the user supplied tax information and corresponding tax entity information. The user supplied tax information may include a tax return portions of a tax return or tax information typically included within a tax return. For example a portion of the user supplied tax return information and corresponding tax entity information may be associated with a tax entity s earnings for a specific time period. Error reduction component may compare the earnings information of the user supplied tax information to the earnings information of the corresponding tax entity information. If the two portions of information differ error reduction component may detect such a difference and notify the user e.g. through a display or other user interface of the difference before a tax return containing the user supplied tax information is filed with a taxing authority.

In some embodiments error reduction component may enable a user to correct differences or discrepancies between user supplied tax information and corresponding tax entity information received from a taxing authority. In various embodiments the error reduction component may enable the user to modify the user supplied tax information in order to make the user supplied tax information consistent with the corresponding tax entity information. In one embodiment the error reduction component may be part of a tax preparation application and the user supplied tax information may include information that the user supplied the tax preparation application. In this case the error reduction component enabling the user to modify the user supplied tax information may include presenting to the user one or more displays or other user interface in which the user may submit a modification to the user supplied tax information. The error reduction component may incorporate the modification into the user supplied tax information. In various embodiments the error reduction component may enable the user to modify the corresponding tax entity information. For example in one embodiment the error reduction component may present to the user one or more displays in which the user may submit a modification to the tax entity information. After receiving the modification the error reduction component may transmit the modification to the taxing authority over a network such as network .

In various embodiments interface and electronic filing system may include the functionality of an electronic filing server. In other words interface and electronic filing system may be configured to electronically file a tax return with taxing authority . Interface and electronic filing system may receive an electronic tax return from a system e.g. application and electronically file the tax return with a taxing authority. In one embodiment application may be a tax preparation application that is configured to submit a tax return e.g. a tax return created from user supplied tax information to interface and electronic filing system . In response interface and electronic filing system may electronically file the tax return with taxing authority .

Please note while illustrates a separate tax entity and application user in some cases user and tax entity may be the same entity e.g. an individual . In other cases user may be a different entity such as an entity that is acting on behalf of tax entity e.g. an accountant acting on behalf of a business . In this case the information that tax entity receives from information provider as well as additional information described below may be provided to user as shown by the transfer of information from tax entity to user .

Additionally information providers may provide corresponding tax entity information to taxing authority . For example an employer may send information regarding wages of an employee a tax entity to a taxing authority. The information sent to taxing authority may correspond to the information sent to tax entity . In some cases the information sent to taxing authority may be the same as the information sent to tax entity . For example if information source sends a Form W 2 to tax entity the same form or a copy of the form may be sent to taxing authority as tax information . In other cases tax information may not be exactly the same as tax information . However in general tax information contains at least some portion of information that corresponds to tax information . For example if tax information is an IRS Form W 2 tax information may not necessarily be a Form W 2. Nevertheless tax information may contain tax information of the Form W 2 e.g. wages or taxes withheld . The information sent from information providers e.g. tax information and may be of any form. For example tax information and or may be in electronic form such as a format accepted by a taxing authority or a format accepted by a user e.g. email . In other cases the information may be sent in hardcopy format e.g. by mail .

Tax entity and taxing authority may have access to additional information such as additional information and additional information . Additional information may be any information pertaining to tax entity or to tax related information associated with the tax entity. For example additional information may represent among other things a Social Security Card Social Security Number Employer Identification Number contact information information pertaining to dependents tax exemptions tax deductions tax credits or tax records. Additional information may represent tax related information that taxing authority may access. For example additional information may represent Social Security information such as a database that correlates Social Security Numbers to names of tax entities. Additional information may be information that taxing authority may use to verify information of tax returns. For example the Social Security information described above may be used to verify social security numbers included in tax returns submitted to taxing authority .

As described above in some cases tax entity and user may be the same entity such as an individual. In other cases user may be an entity that is acting on behalf of tax entity such as an accountant acting on behalf of a business. User may submit tax information such as a tax return or other tax information to application and error reduction component as illustrated by user supplied tax information . Tax information may be an entire tax return a portion of a tax return or tax related information such as information that would typically be included in a tax return. User supplied tax return information may be entered by the user e.g. typing or provided electronically such as directing the error reduction component to a file located locally or externally e.g. through a network . In general the user may provide the user supplied tax information to error reduction component by any means in which error reduction component is configured to accept.

Error reduction component may detect errors within the user supplied tax information. To detect errors within the tax information submitted by a user error reduction component may request or query taxing authority for tax entity information pertaining to tax entity as illustrated by request . Request may include identifying information that identifies tax entity such that taxing authority will be able to retrieve information pertaining to the specific tax entity. For example request may include a Social Security Number of tax entity or another piece of identifying information such as a driver s license number. In response taxing authority may transmit tax entity information to error reduction component . As described above in regard to taxing authority may be provide a web service or API such that service provider interface may service requests from other interfaces such as the service requester interface of the error reduction component. Service requester interface may be utilized by error reduction component to request and receive tax entity information from taxing authority .

Error reduction component may detect errors within the user supplied tax information by comparing it to the corresponding tax entity information . For example user supplied tax information may indicate that the user earned wages of 50 000 from a total of two income sources during a specific time period. Error reduction component may determine any differences between the user supplied tax information and the corresponding tax entity information by comparison. For instance if the corresponding tax entity information indicates that the user earned wages of 51 000 during the same time period error reduction component may detect a difference between the two portions of information. In other words error reduction component may use tax entity information from taxing authority to detect differences that it may not be able to detect otherwise.

In some embodiments as shown in error reduction component may send and receive information request and tax entity information through interface and electronic filing system as described above. For example if error reduction component and taxing authority are not configured to communicate directly interface and electronic filing system may serve as an intermediary between the two. In other words interface and electronic filing system may provide an interface such that error reduction component and taxing authority may communicate with one another. For example information request may be sent according to a format in which error reduction component is configured to communicate while request may be sent from the interface and electronic filing system according to a format in which taxing authority is configured to receive.

In some embodiments application may be a tax preparation application. In other words application may be an application configured to create a tax return from user supplied tax information and file the tax return with a taxing authority in some cases through an electronic filing system . In various embodiments user may provide tax information to tax preparation application . Application may operate as described above. In other words application may create an electronic tax return for a tax entity from the tax information provided by the user. Application may receive tax information from a user e.g. information pertaining to wages taxes withheld tax credits tax deductions and create an electronic tax return from the information. Error reduction component may detect errors within the electronic tax return created by application . To detect the errors error reduction component may send a request or query to taxing authority for tax entity information associated with the user. In response taxing authority may send the tax entity information to application as illustrated by tax entity information . Error reduction component may utilize the tax entity information to check for errors within the tax return created by tax preparation application . Error reduction component may utilize any of the error checking methods described above in regard to error reduction component . For example error reduction component may check for errors within the tax return such as errors associated with an incorrect Social Security Number or amount of income earned. In other words error reduction component enables tax preparation application to detect errors within an electronic tax return before the tax return is filed with a taxing authority. Additionally error reduction component may request tax entity information from a taxing authority at any point during the creation of tax return by application . For example the corresponding tax entity information may be retrieved before during or after the preparation of a tax return. Similarly differences between the user supplied tax information and the corresponding tax entity information may be determined at any point throughout the creation of a tax return. For example a user creating a tax return with application may desire to check for discrepancies in real time e.g. during preparation of a return or alternatively after the tax return has been created.

For example information may represent a form 1099 INT indicating an interest income of 500. Further tax entity may fail to receive information and thus may fail to provide this information to user and application e.g. by failing to include the 500 interest income within tax information . After application receives tax entity information error reduction component may detect a discrepancy of 500 in income reported between the user supplied tax information and the tax entity information . In other words error reduction component may detect an error that otherwise would not have been detected until after filing the tax return with the taxing authority. The user may correct the error s e.g. by properly including the 500 interest income when creating a tax return with a tax preparation application such as application and submit the tax return for filing with taxing authority .

In order to check for discrepancies within user supplied tax information e.g. a tax return it may be necessary to obtain corresponding tax entity information in which the user supplied tax information may be compared. Block illustrates the error reduction component sending a request for tax entity information associated with a specific tax entity. Sending a request for tax entity information may include sending a request to a taxing authority or other entity configured to provide tax entity information. For example a taxing authority may accumulate tax entity information from entities that report tax related information for tax entities such as employers banks financial institutions investment firms trusts and partnerships. In some embodiments sending a request may include querying a database of tax entity information. In one embodiment the request may contain information that identifies a particular tax entity such as a Social Security Number Employer Identification Number driver s license number name or other form of information that identifies a particular tax entity. The request may be received by an entity e.g. a taxing authority that may send tax entity information in response to the request. Block illustrates receiving the tax entity information. Receiving the corresponding tax entity information may include receiving the tax entity information directly from a taxing authority or through an intermediary such as an electronic filing system. After receiving the corresponding tax entity information and before a tax return is filed that contains the user supplied tax information the error reduction component may present to the user the corresponding tax entity information.

The tax entity information may be used to detect differences between user supplied tax information e.g. a tax return and the corresponding tax entity information. Block illustrates the error reduction component determining if a specific portion of the tax return information is different than a corresponding portion of user supplied tax information. For example portions of the user supplied tax information and the tax entity information that correspond to a user s income may be compared to determine if they are different or the same. For instance the user supplied tax information may indicate that the user earned 50 000 in annual wages from a single income source. Additionally the tax entity information may indicate that the user earned 51 000 in annual wages from multiple income sources. Since the user supplied tax information differs from the tax entity information a difference or discrepancy may be determined. In further example the user supplied tax information may indicate that the Social Security Number of the user is 223 00 4567. Additionally the tax entity information may indicate that the Social Security Number of the user is 123 00 4567. Since the Social Security Numbers do not match a difference may be determined. Determining a difference between a portion of user supplied tax information and tax entity information may include determining differences among any type of tax related information including but not limited to income e.g. wages interest capital gains taxes withheld tax deductions and or tax credits.

Block illustrates the error reduction application enabling the user to correct an error of the user supplied tax information or of the corresponding tax entity information. Enabling the user to correct an error of the user supplied tax information or the tax entity information may include providing the user with a user interface or display in which the user may enter and submit the correct information for inclusion within an updated set of user supplied tax information e.g. a tax return . In one embodiment enabling the user to correct an error of the corresponding tax entity information may include sending a correction to an entity e.g. a taxing authority . For example if a user has recently changed names e.g. as a result of marriage a taxing authority may have the user s previous name on record. In this case correcting the tax entity information may include sending the taxing authority the user s current name. In one embodiment a taxing authority may provide a web service or API for receiving correction requests. In this case correcting corresponding user supplied tax information may include sending a web service request according to the web service or API of the taxing authority.

Various embodiments of a system and method for reducing return errors as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. One such computer system is computer system illustrated by . Computer system may be capable of implementing the various systems and applications described above including the elements of e.g. computer system may be configured to run application or implement an interface and electronic filing system or a taxing authority as described . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard and display s . In some embodiments it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above are shown stored within system memory as program instructions and data storage respectively. In other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network e.g. network such as other computer systems or between nodes of computer system . In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer system . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

As shown in memory may include program instructions configured to implement embodiments of a system and method for reducing return errors as described herein e.g. application and or error reduction component and data storage comprising various data e.g. documents tables databases accessible by program instructions . In one embodiment program instructions may include one or more elements illustrated in and data storage may include the data illustrated in e.g. user supplied tax information and tax entity information . In other embodiments different elements and data may be included.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. as well as transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The methods may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of method may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

Realizations in accordance with the present invention have been described in the context of particular embodiments. These embodiments are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of the invention as defined in the claims that follow.

