---

title: Mobile phone with CDMA and an audio/video electronic mail generator, and method of sending/receiving an audio/video electronic mail
abstract: An audio/video electronic mail system which is stored in a computer readable or access-able storage media comprises an address book providers to access to directory information; an audio/video e-mail generator coupled to the address and provided to generate an audio/video e-mail; a spooler coupled to the audio/video e-mail generator and responsible for sending messages to and receiving message from a messaging system; and a transport providers coupled to audio/video e-mail generator to handle message transmission and reception.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08108473&OS=08108473&RS=08108473
owner: 
number: 08108473
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20071107
---
The present invention relates generally to a electronic mail system and more particularly to a audio video electronic mail system.

Communication and electronic product are widely spread since the technology and products are driven by lighter weight smaller size and higher speed requirements. The field of telecommunication and internet also follow the tread to develop more convenient product and launch to the market. The communication is therefore booming day by day. The network mobile device personal assistant device are the essential device for the human daily life. The network service provider and device maker are continuously to offer better service and solution to the user. U.S. Pat. No. 6 549 950 disclosed a conventional E mail system. However the current electronic mail system is still based on text.

An audio video electronic mail system which is stored in a computer readable or access able storage media comprises an address book providers to access to directory information an audio video e mail generator coupled to the address and provided to generate an audio video e mail a spooler coupled to the audio video e mail generator and responsible for sending messages to and receiving message from a messaging system and a transport providers coupled to audio video e mail generator to handle message transmission and reception. The audio video e mail system coupled to a microphone and an image capturing device. The spooler is located at the MAPI that provides high level function that can be used to implement sophisticated messaging features with a relatively small amount of code.

The audio video e mail system is embedded into a computer readable medium of a computer notebook or web server a mobile phone PDA or media player. In the case of server the audio video e mail generator is stored in the remote server remote terminal computer and the microphone and image capturing device are set at the local terminal computer.

The method for generating audio video e mail comprises activating an audio video e mail system having an audio video e mail generator at the remote terminal server for generating at least one of audio and video e mail selecting the audio video e mail generator to prepare the audio video e mail triggering at least one of a microphone and an image capturing device at the local terminal computer to store at least one of a vocal message and image message to generate the audio video e mail and sending the audio video e mail.

The MAPI architecture is designed to write messaging enabled applications that are independent of the underlying messaging system. MAPI provides high level function that can be used to implement sophisticated messaging features with a relatively small amount of code. The underlying messaging system is completely transparent. The MAPI subsystem is made up of the MAPI spooler the programming interfaces. The MAPI spooler is a separate interface that is responsible for sending messages to and receiving messages from a messaging system. The MAPI service providers are located between MAPI subsystem and the messaging systems. Messages are created using a form that is appropriate for the specific type or class of message. Address book providers handle access to directory information. MAPI integrates all the information supplied by the installed address book providers into address book. Message store providers handle the storage and retrieval of messages and other information for the users of client application.

The present invention relates generally to an electronic mail system. The portable device includes but not limited to cellular phone PDA personal digital assistant smart phone notebook digital still camera digital video camera medium player MP3 MP4 GPS and the equivalent thereof. The wireless communication portable device may include dual way transmission protocol such as GSM CDMA or PHS.

The present invention relates to electronic mail system. It can be applied to any suitable e mail module for instance Microsoft Outlook Fire Fox KK Man and any other web mail system. In one embodiment the electronic mail system is incorporate with computer platform and operation system. Under such scheme the electronic mail module may be utilized by the user for transmitting receiving electronic mail. The electronic mail system includes pluralities of sub modules for example including a calendar manager a task list manager a contact manager a message manager e mail and a notes manager. Although the preferred embodiment will be generally described in the context of a program and an operating system running on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention also can be implemented in conjunction with other program modules for other types of computers or operation system such as Macintosh I Mac I book serious developed by Apple.

The electronic mail system is developed over ten years. However these messages are simple text messages and are presented by text. The present invention provides video audio mail system to offer additional functions and pleasure. The computer generally includes CPU memory display I O etc. The present invention may be applied to the heterogeneous distributed computing environment for instance remote server.

As shown in the computer includes a central processing unit CPU and memory including read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM which is coupled to the CPU . The computer uses BIOS stored in the ROM to operation. The BIOS is a set of basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer . Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the present invention may be used for computers without BIOS such as POWER PC . A hard disk drive is coupled to the CPU . A DVD drive is also coupled to the CPU . A user inputs instructions to the personal computer via input devices such as a keyboard and a mouse . A display is connected to the CPU . OS and applications are stored on the computer readable medium. Microphone and speaker are coupled to the CPU an image capturing device is also coupled to the CPU .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention may be applied to other operation system and not limited to the OS described below. The operating system provides a variety of functions or services that allow an application program to easily process various types of input output. In one of the preferred embodiments the operating system incorporates the Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI . The MAPI architecture is designed to make it easy for programmers to write messaging enabled applications that are independent of the underlying messaging system. MAPI provides high level function that can be used to implement sophisticated messaging features with a relatively small amount of code. The code deals with functions for example sending receiving and addressing messages. The underlying messaging system is completely transparent. MAPI also provides other message related functionality such as access to address books. Please refer to the MAPI subsystem is made up of the MAPI spooler . The MAPI spooler is a separate interface that is responsible for sending messages to and receiving messages from a messaging system. The spooler is in the MAPI subsystem.

The MAPI service providers are located between MAPI subsystem and the messaging systems . Service providers are drivers that connect MAPI client applications to an underlying messaging system . MAPI service providers include message store providers address book or directory providers and message transport providers . The service providers work with MAPI to create and send messages in the following way. When the client sent the message the message store provider will check recipient that has valid address. Address book providers handle access to directory information. For example address book providers store a recipient s name address and address type.

Transport providers handle message transmission and reception. They control the interaction between the MAPI spooler and the underlying messaging system . When an incoming message is detected the transport provider informs the MAPI spooler and the message is delivered to the appropriate message store. To handle outgoing messages the message store moves the message to the outbound queue informs the MAPI spooler and the spooler transfers it to the appropriate transport providers.

The user transmit the message to the receiver message store provider and the message transport are used to perform the function. The conventional method may process the text only. MAPI property has a value a type and an identifier. The value is the descriptive data such as the text in a message body. The type describes the kind of data such as a string numeric or Boolean. The identifier is the number that uniquely describes the property. The identifier and type are combined to form a property tag which is a constant that can be used to easily refer to the property. For example PR MESSAGE BODY is the tag for the message body property. The property tag and value are stored together in system memory as a single data structure. Every custom form implements a set of standard menu commands for example open create delete or reply. The present invention also includes calendar module task list manager. The information of the E mail includes send to whom from who cc subject and date .

The present invention includes audio video electronic mail generator over the message system for generating video and vocal message. When the module is active the computer system will active the image capture device to capture the user image and record the vocal message of the user through microphone. The control unit of the computer may integrate the audio and video signals to create the audio video e mail through the audio video electronic mail generator . After the user input the address of the receiver the audio video e mail may be transmitted by the transport provider . When the sender sent the message the transport provider process the transmission process and the message store provider save a copy in the system for record. Alternatively the user may select only one of the audio and video functions.

Please refer to the method associated with the present invention includes the steps of activating the e mail system in step . The electronic system includes audio video e mail generator. The next step is to select the audio video e mail button of the system to active the audio video e mail generator to generate the audio video e mail followed by triggering at least one of the microphone and digital camera or the like . The next step is to generate and prepare the audio video e mail by the audio video e mail generator . Then the user may transmit the audio video e mail.

A message store provider initiates the sending process. The MAPI spooler receives the message performs any required preprocessing and delivers it to the appropriate transport provider . The transport provider gives the message to its messaging system which sends it to the intended recipient s . When a message is received the transport provider receives a message from its messaging system and notifies the MAPI spooler . The spooler performs any necessary post processing and informs the message store provider that a new message is received. The system refreshes the message and displays. When the user opens the e mail it displays by the audio video type instead of conventional text. The receiver may receive the audio message through the output of the speaker and the video signal is displayed on the display. Accordingly the text message may be shown on the display as well.

When the user would like to send the audio video e mail and input the instruction of creating a new mail the user may initiate the generation of audio video mail then inputs the receipt address or vice verse.

As mentioned above the preferred embodiment of the present invention is represented by the MICROSOFT OUTLOOK or Express which is published by Microsoft Corporation. Those one skilled in the art may recognize that the present invention may be applied to other system. It may be completed through MAPISendMail and SubmitMessage. At the terminal of the receiver the new coming message may be shown in the mail box of the e mail system. After the user click and open the mail the vocal message is output from the speaker and the video message is displayed on the display.

Therefore the audio video e mail system is different from the prior text e mail system. The method can be used in Apple system web mail system. Alternatively the present invention may be integrated into the mobile phone terminal or PDA thereby allowing the user may receive the audio video e mail portably. If the e mail system is based on the web base the user may couple to the web mail service provider through the browser before receiving or sending mails. As mentioned in 0010 the wireless communication portable device may include dual way transmission protocol such as GSM CDMA or PHS. GSM and PHS are available to achieve the purpose if only the vocal is required to be transmitted. However if the video data is required to be received and transmitted simultaneously the mobile communication protocol is well known to be at least third generation mobile protocol such as CDMA with suitable wide band. From above the mobile phone with at least third generation mobile protocol and an audio video electronic mail generator comprises the audio video e mail generator provided to generate an audio video e mail. The audio video e mail is processed by said audio video electronic mail generator and transmitted and received by said at least third generation mobile protocol. The present invention may allow the user portably receive the video audio e mail without the space limitation and free from the computer.

If the mobile phone includes internet work linking capability namely it integrated WLAN module into the device it may couple to the network through the network linking module for example WiFi WiMax 802.11 standard.

The present invention changes the type of e mail system and the content type of the mail. It providers better communication interface and pleasure. Therefore the user may send a true and warm image and vocal message of the send to the receiver through computer e mail system instead of cold text message.

As will be understood by persons skilled in the art the foregoing preferred embodiment of the present invention is illustrative of the present invention rather than limiting the present invention. Having described the invention in connection with a preferred embodiment modification will now suggest itself to those skilled in the art. Thus the invention is not to be limited to this embodiment but rather the invention is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims the scope of which should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar structures. While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described it will be appreciated that various changes can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

