---

title: System and method for product review information generation and management
abstract: A computer-implemented system and method for product review information generation and management are disclosed. An example embodiment prompts a first user for entry of product review information associated with a product in a product category and with product attributes, stores the product review information, determines when a second user accesses product listings in the product category or with one or more of the product attributes, and presents the second user with the product review information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08433619&OS=08433619&RS=08433619
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08433619
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
This disclosure relates to methods and systems supporting online transactions by a user. More particularly the present disclosure relates to product review information generation and management.

Using conventional systems and processes on the Web users can search for goods and services via the Internet and shop or make purchases of goods or services over the Internet. Well known classifieds media and auction trading platforms typically allow sellers to place advertisements ads by filling in a form. In these so called Sell Your Item forms sellers describe the items that they wish to sell. In most cases the information provided by sellers in their description of the item being offered for sale consists of two types of descriptive information 1 Unique Item specifics. This type of information is perishable information related to the unique item for sale. This information is useless to other shoppers after the item sells e.g. The car is in good condition and 2 User review information. This type of product review information is non perishable information related to the specific product type to which the unique item belongs. This information is useful to people even after the item sells. e.g. Next to its low fuel consumption the Toyota Corolla is a practical car. . For most product sale listings product information of both of these types is mixed in the sale item descriptions. As such the value of the review information is lost and cannot be effectively used for other shoppers buyers.

A computer implemented system and method for product review information generation and management are disclosed. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known processes structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the clarity of this description.

As described further below according to various example embodiments of the disclosed subject matter described and claimed herein there is provided a computer implemented system and method for product review information generation and management. The system includes a review collector to obtain category based product review information from a seller and a review presenter to display related category based product review information product attribute information and reviewer information in association with products or services in a related product service category. Various embodiments are described below in connection with the figures provided herein.

Referring to an example of a well known form used by sellers to place advertisements ads is illustrated. Well known classifieds media and auction trading platforms typically allow sellers to place ads by filling in a form such as the example form shown in . Sellers can use these forms to describe the items that they wish to sell. As shown in a seller can describe the location price and posting title of the item in various data entry fields provided in the form. In block the seller can provide a free form textual description of the item for sale. In most cases the information provided by sellers in their description of the item being offered for sale consists of two types of descriptive information 1 Unique Item specifics. This type of information is perishable information related to the unique item for sale. The unique item specific information does not apply to other items in the same class of goods as the item offered for sale. This unique item specific information is useless to other shoppers after the item sells e.g. The car is in good condition or the car has minor damage on the left side . The second type of descriptive information is 2 User review information. This type of product review information is non perishable information related to the specific product type to which the unique item belongs. The product review information does apply to other items in the same class of goods as the item offered for sale. This information is useful to people even after the item sells. e.g. Next to its low fuel consumption the Toyota Corolla is a practical car or the Toyota Corolla handles well . For most conventional product sale listings product information of both of these types is mixed in the sale item descriptions.

Referring still to the example product listing form shown provides a seller query prompt intended to elicit a response from the seller that is likely to be primarily product review information and not likely to be item specific information. A product review response section is provided to capture the seller response to the query prompt . Because the seller query prompt is intended to elicit a response from the seller that is likely to be primarily product review information the content of product review response section is likely to be primarily product review information. As such the content of product review response section can be used by or beneficial to other shoppers or purchasers in the same or similar category of goods.

In an alternative embodiment product review information can be solicited from a seller or review provider using various other information gathering channels such as telephone calls emails faxes mailings electronic forms surveys and the like. The product review information contained in the correspondence received via these various channels can be collected into a central data repository for storage of the product review information.

Using the product category and product attribute information associated with the particular product listing such as the product listing shown in other related product listings can be found that match with or are similar to the category and product attributes of the particular product listing as described above. In this manner clusters of related product listings in various dimensions can be generated and associated with a particular product listing. Each dimension of these related product listings can correspond to a particular category or attribute of the particular product listing. Having generated these clusters of related product listings in various dimensions the content of product review response section for the particular product listing can be associated with the other related product listings. In this manner the product review information provided by a seller of a particular product item can be shown to other shoppers or buyers of other products in the same or similar product categories or with the same or similar product attributes.

In an alternative embodiment the product review information originated by one or more sellers or other users and displayed to a user who browses a related listing can include information related to the particular seller or user who provided the product review information. For example seller user profile information demographic information location information seller affiliation information and the like can be included with the seller user product review information in order to provide context for the particular product review. In this manner a shopper buyer who is presented with product review information can learn something about the reviewer and thus determine if the reviewer may have a particular perspective on the product.

Referring now to a diagram illustrates a network environment in which various example embodiments may operate. In this conventional network architecture a server computer system is coupled to a wide area network . Wide area network includes the Internet or other proprietary networks which are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Wide area network may include conventional network backbones long haul telephone lines Internet service providers various levels of network routers and other conventional means for routing data between computers. Using conventional network protocols server may communicate through wide area network to a plurality of client computer systems connected through wide area network in various ways. For example client is connected directly to wide area network through direct or dial up telephone or other network transmission line. Alternatively clients may be connected through wide area network using a modem pool . A conventional modem pool allows a plurality of client systems to connect with a smaller set of modems in modem pool for connection through wide area network . In another alternative network topology wide area network is connected to a gateway computer . Gateway computer is used to route data to clients through a local area network LAN . In this manner clients can communicate with each other through local area network or with server through gateway and wide area network .

Using one of a variety of network connection means server computer can communicate with client computers using conventional means. In a particular implementation of this network configuration a server computer may operate as a web server if the Internet s World Wide Web WWW is used for wide area network . Using the HTTP protocol and the HTML coding language across wide area network web server may communicate across the World Wide Web with clients . In this configuration clients use a client application program known as a web browser such as the Internet Explorer published by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the user interface of America On Line or the web browser or HTML renderer of any other supplier. Using such conventional browsers and the World Wide Web clients may access image graphical and textual data provided by web server or they may run Web application software. Conventional means exist by which clients may supply information to web server through the World Wide Web and the web server may return processed data to clients .

Having briefly described one embodiment of the network environment in which an example embodiment may operate show an example of a computer system illustrating an exemplary client or server computer system in which the features of an example embodiment may be implemented. Computer system is comprised of a bus or other communications means and for communicating information and a processing means such as processor coupled with bus for processing information. Computer system further comprises a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device commonly referred to as main memory coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by processor . Computer system also comprises a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor .

An optional data storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk and its corresponding drive may also be coupled to computer system for storing information and instructions. Computer system can also be coupled via bus to a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD for displaying information to a computer user. For example image textual video or graphical depictions of information may be presented to the user on display device . Typically an alphanumeric input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and or command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control device such as a conventional mouse trackball or other type of cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selection to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display .

Alternatively the client can be implemented as a network computer or thin client device. Client may also be a laptop or palm top computing device such as the Palm Pilot . Client could also be implemented in a robust cellular telephone where such devices are currently being used with Internet micro browsers. Such a network computer or thin client device does not necessarily include all of the devices and features of the above described exemplary computer system however the functionality of an example embodiment or a subset thereof may nevertheless be implemented with such devices.

A communication device is also coupled to bus for accessing remote computers or servers such as web server or other servers via the Internet for example. The communication device may include a modem a network interface card or other well known interface devices such as those used for interfacing with Ethernet Token ring or other types of networks. In any event in this manner the computer system may be coupled to a number of servers via a conventional network infrastructure such as the infrastructure illustrated in and described above.

The system of an example embodiment includes software information processing hardware and various processing steps which will be described below. The features and process steps of example embodiments may be embodied in articles of manufacture as machine or computer executable instructions. The instructions can be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor which is programmed with the instructions to perform the steps of an example embodiment. Alternatively the features or steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hard wired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. While embodiments are described with reference to the Internet the method and apparatus described herein is equally applicable to other network infrastructures or other data communications systems.

Various embodiments are described herein. In particular the use of embodiments with various types and formats of user interface presentations and or application programming interfaces may be described. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that alternative embodiments of the implementations described herein can be employed and still fall within the scope of the claimed invention. In the detail herein various embodiments are described as implemented in computer implemented processing logic denoted sometimes herein as the Software . As described above however the claimed invention is not limited to a purely software implementation.

Thus a system and method for product review information generation and management are disclosed. While the present invention has been described in terms of several example embodiments those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. The description herein is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

