---

title: Method and system for displaying advertisements in an electronic program guide
abstract: A system and method for displaying an electronic program schedule guide is provided. The system has areas for displaying program schedule information. In addition, the system also has areas that may be used for advertising programs, products or services. In another embodiment, the system has areas for displaying messages to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08869204&OS=08869204&RS=08869204
owner: Starsight Telecast, Inc.
number: 08869204
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070820
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 401 299 filed Mar. 27 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 480 929 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 352 669 filed Jul. 9 1999 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 846 801 files Apr. 30 1997 which has now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 5 940 073 which claimed the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application ADVERTISING HOT ZONE AND RELATED FEATURES U.S. Application No. 60 016 871 filed May 3 1996 having Brian Lee Klosterman as the inventor and assigned to StarSight Telecast Inc. and U.S. Provisional Patent Application INFORMATION SYSTEM U.S. Application No. 60 032 038 filed Nov. 26 1996 having Brian Lee Klosterman and Steven Schein as the inventors and assigned to StarSight Telecast Inc. The aforementioned earlier filed applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

The present invention relates generally to a program schedule guide and more particularly to a system and process for allowing a television viewer to access on screen television program listings and other information services in an easy and convenient way.

The number of television channels available to a user has grown dramatically within the last decade primarily due to the availability of cable and direct broadcast satellite systems. As the number of programs of potential interest to the viewer has increased a variety of electronic program guides have been developed to help the viewer select programs of particular interest. For example commonly assigned U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 706 121 and 5 353 121 each describes schedule information processing systems which provide the viewer with a convenient way to select programs based on viewer supplied selection criteria.

Given the hectic lifestyle of today s society a system which provides other information in addition to television program schedule information would be very convenient for the busy viewer. Examples of information viewers may desire are weather information financial information and the like. Hence an information system such as a guide with regions reserved for such information would provide a valuable service to a user. Furthermore these regions could be used for advertising or promotional purposes which may or may not be interactive thereby enabling more services to be provided without increasing the cost of the guide.

The system and method of the present invention provides a program schedule guide with information regions for displaying additional information. Alternatively the additional information may be provided by a separate information guide and a user may hypertune from the program schedule guide to the information guide and vice versa. The information to be displayed is received by a peripheral device which can either be a stand alone device such as a set top box or a web browser box or integrated into the user s television VCR computer satellite IRD cable box and the like. In addition the information may be displayed on a computer screen a television screen or a television monitor screen.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the program guide interactively displays a program schedule guide and the screen contains additional non interactive information regions which can be used for displaying advertising or promotional messages for products or programs in a static or scrolling manner. The advertising may be for special programming events such as pay per view movies current or upcoming programs or for merchandise and services or messages to the user. The promotional information may relate to an individual network broadcaster or for a selected program merchandise or services.

In another preferred embodiment of the invention both the program guide and the information regions are interactive with the user. The interactive information regions may also display information in a static or scrolling manner and may contain promotional information regarding a current or up coming program or product advertising information. In addition if the information region contains advertising information regarding a product the user may click on the information region to see a billboard or schedule a recording of an infomercial on the product. The interactive program schedule guide and the information regions may further be combined with various other forms of information. Potential sources of additional information include news sports and weather. This additional information may either be available on command by the user or continuously displayed within an area of the program guide. In another preferred embodiment the information is displayed in a separate information guide.

In yet another preferred embodiment the program guide is non interactive however the information regions containing the advertising and promotional information are interactive and may be either static or scrolling. The user may activate icons or menu items in the information regions or click on the region itself to gain access to additional displays of advertising and promotional information. In this embodiment the user may switch between full screen display of the guide and a partial or reduced size picture in picture PIP window display of the guide via for example an on screen menu with cursor or pointer control. This feature allows a user to see a large scale version of the guide or to be able to see the guide through a PIP window while also getting a flavor for a currently selected show through a partial observation of the show. Preferably in this mode the audio for the show also continues to be played.

In preferred embodiments if an information region is interactive and displays information regarding a program the user may click on the information region and direct tune to the program if it is currently on. Alternatively the user may schedule automatic tuning to the program when the program comes on. If the user schedules an autotune the system may request confirmation from the user just prior to or at the time of the scheduled tuning of the program. Alternatively the system may tune to the program directly. If the program is a pay per view program the system may authorize payment for the program automatically. Preferably the system will request user confirmation before tuning to or authorizing payment of the program. In addition the user may choose to record a current program or record a future program. To do this the user would highlight the program desired on the information region then choose the record option and the system would record a current program or asks if it should schedule recording of a future program.

In another preferred embodiment the advertising or promotional information may appear only during times when the user is more likely to actually be watching the program schedule guide. The guide may further contain commercial icons that allow a user to get more information about the product or service advertised. In addition the information displayed may change as the user moves the cursor from cell to cell in the program guide. Alternatively the information displayed in the information regions may change after the passage of a predetermined number of seconds regardless of user activity. Additional information regions may be displayed while the user confirms that he she desires to autotune to an upcoming program. These information regions may contain advertising for products programs or services and may be displayed until the user makes his her confirmation.

A further understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the drawings.

The present invention provides a schedule system which contains information regions for displaying other than television program schedule information. illustrates a preferred embodiment of television computer system that displays a program schedule guide according to the present invention. As shown system includes a distribution center and multiple receiving locations. Distribution center compiles data for a data stream. In a preferred embodiment this data stream is broadcast to receiving locations and and peripheral devices that are located within the receiving locations receive the data stream. Several methods are available for broadcasting the data stream from distribution center to receiving locations . For example satellite may broadcast this data stream within the vertical blanking interval VBI of a television channel e.g. PBS or a dedicated channel to receiving locations and . Alternatively the data may also be broadcast out of band i.e. using non channel specific mechanisms. In another preferred embodiment the data stream is provided to receiving locations and via transmission system . Transmission system may be for example optical fiber coax cable telephone line over the air television broadcast or the like.

In yet another embodiment the peripheral devices receive the data stream from for example a local service provider . Service provider receives the data stream from distribution center via line and broadcasts the data stream to the receiving peripheral devices via satellite or another satellite or via lines and . The receiving peripheral devices may be televisions televisions VCRs VCRs and or cable satellite IRD web browser or set top boxes . In still further embodiments PCTVs or personal computers may be utilized or the data stream may be provided to a personal computer for use with the computer and or one or more of the above devices. Hence the system is not dependent on hardware platforms rather it may be a software application that may be downloaded to different systems.

In a preferred embodiment information in the data stream includes television schedule information advertising information news information weather information financial information internet address linking information and the like. The information in the data stream may further include messages from the system operator to a specific user or to subscribers of the system in general. Software applications which may be downloaded from the distribution center or located within the peripheral devices utilize the schedule information provided in the data stream to generate a schedule guide. The news weather financial and other information may be included in the schedule guide or a separate information guide may be generated. Advertising information and messages from the system operator to a user are included on the schedule guide and may be included on the information guide as well. In yet another preferred embodiment data in the front and back end of the data stream may be compressed to send a tickler instead of a regular full screen video display. The tickler would be a PIP window and because the window size is small the quality of the picture is sufficient even though it is generated from compressed data.

If the software applications are located within the peripheral devices they may be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as a RAM disk or other storage device. Where applicable the computer readable storage medium may also be a ROM. If the schedule guide is in a grid format for example the available channels may be listed on the y axis and various times may be listed on the x axis. For more information on how the schedule system displays information see U.S. Pat. No. 4 706 121 U.S. Pat. No. 5 479 266 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 479 268. These patents like the present patent application are assigned to StarSight Telecast Inc. and are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

In another preferred embodiment satellite has processing capability. Hence in addition to distribution center satellite may also compile data for the data stream. This embodiment is very advantageous as it ensures continued and reliable data transmission in situations where satellite may not be able to receive data from distribution center . An example of such situations is during periods of atmospheric or terrestrial interferences which occur when satellite is in line with distribution center and the Sun. The Sun having immense energy emits a lot of noise thereby interfering with data transmission from distribution center to satellite . With its own data processor satellite may continue to transmit data hence ensuring continued and reliable data transfer to the receiving locations. This embodiment also ensures continued and reliable data transmission when distribution center is out of service.

Information regions and may be color coded or otherwise visually distinguished. They may also be placed at strategic positions within the guide to better catch the user s attention. As described when an information region contains program information such as cell the user may move the cursor to the region or the cursor may point to the region by default and tune to the program if it is currently on. If the program is not currently on the user may schedule an autotune to the program when the program airs. The user may further record a current program or schedule a recording of a future program. When an information region contains product information such as cell the user may click on the information region to tune to an infomercial on the product. Alternatively the user may schedule an autotune to the infomercial at a later time period or schedule a recording of the infomercial on the product. In a two way system which has a back channel for transmitting information or requests from the user the user may also order a product by clicking on an information region and providing the necessary customer information for transmission to a supplier of the product or to the system operator service provider .

Portion of guide screen contains cells . Each cell indicates the channel number corresponding to the program guide cell lying immediately adjacent to it in the program guide. Instead of or in combination with the channel number cells may contain the program service name. For example a cell may contain the channel number 32 the service name PBS or both.

The system operator may charge television program providers an additional fee per time slot for promoting and featuring programs in the information regions. In this manner the system operator may provide the guide to a user at a reduced price while providing more information. A number of different display arrangements can be used to draw the user s attention to such special programs. For example the program may be listed first in the program guide shown in a different typeface presented in a different color given additional space for a program description or have some other form of graphic enhancement including animation.

In portion contains the promotion Amid the flash of 70 s Disco an aspiring young dancer . . . . This promotional material which in this example would typically be provided by NBC provides the user with several benefits. First it allows a program to be promoted which is not currently represented in the program schedule guide. Second portion may be used to provide further information about a specific program such as the starring actors or a brief description of the program content thus possibly gaining a larger viewing audience or market share. Third by promoting a program through prominent featuring of the program in the program guide the broadcaster may be able to prevent potential viewers from becoming engrossed in a program which is to continue after the start time of the promoted program.

Portion of screen is used to indicate the sponsor of the promotional message shown in portion . The sponsor indication can be by broadcaster call letters channel number broadcaster name or broadcaster insignia e.g. the NBC peacock . It is also possible to eliminate portion thereby enlarging portion . Additional information may therefore be displayed in portion . Since portion of screen displays information regarding a program the user may click on the information region and direct tune to the program if it is currently on. Alternatively the user may schedule automatic tuning to the program when the program comes on. If the user schedules an autotune the system may request confirmation from the user before tuning to the program or the system may tune to the program directly. Preferably the system will request user confirmation before tuning to the program. If user confirmation is requested additional information regions may be displayed until the user makes his confirmation. These information regions may include advertising for products or services.

If the promoted program is a pay per view program the system may authorize payment for the program automatically. Preferably the system will request user confirmation before authorizing payment of the program. The user may further choose to record the promoted program whether it is a current program a future program or a pay per view program. If the user requests recording of a pay per view program the system may ask for confirmation before authorizing payment for the program. If the user requests recording of a future program the system may also request user confirmation. Additional information regions may also be displayed while the user confirms his her recording request.

If an information region displays advertising or promotional material the user may activate an icon click on the region or select a menu item to view additional information about the product or service advertised. From these additional information displays the user may learn more about the product or service order the product or service or find out where the product or service may be obtained. The additional displays would of course allow the user to return to the previous displays after the user has seen the desired information displays.

The invention may also allow the user to switch between full screen display and a PIP window display of the guide via for example an on screen menu with cursor control This feature would allow a user to see a large scale version of the guide or to be able to see the guide while also getting a flavor for a currently selected show through only partial observation of the show. Preferably in this mode the audio for the show also continues to be played.

As shown guide screen has one information region which is promoting a program that may be on shortly or is currently on. Information region is interactive. Hence if the user clicks on region the user may see message screen which displays a description of the program content. In addition message screen may also display promotional materials about an upcoming program This way the system operator may indirectly promote multiple programs on region . If the program is currently on the user may click on icon to tune to the program. If the program will come on shortly the user will be tuned to the channel that corresponds to the program. Alternatively the user may click on icon to start recording the program if the program is on. On occasions where the program will come on shortly the system will start recording the program when the program comes on.

In another embodiment the system may automatically tune a user to a promoted program when the program comes on. This may happen whether or not the user has scheduled an autotune to the program. Preferably the system will ask the user whether the user wishes to tune to the program before automatically tuning to the program.

The interactive and non interactive information screens may both be used for displaying scrolling messages or static messages. As discussed these information screens may be used to promote programs as well as products. In addition the information screens may also be used to send messages to specific users for example alerting a user that his her bill is overdue. This is because each guide system has a unique unit address. Hence the system operator is able to send messages to specific users by sending the messages to the respective unit addresses. Of course the information screens may be used to send system wide messages to all users. For example the information screens may be used to send alerts to all users for example of an impending disaster. The information screens may further be used to send messages to a specific group of users. For example the system could send a message to all Magnavox television owners by checking for Magnavox television codes as this information is entered into the system when the user first sets up the system. To ensure that messages to the users are read by the users such messages will have a bit attached to them that keeps them in the information screen until the user indicates that he she has seen the message. The user may indicate that he she has seen the message by pushing a button on a user input device or by clicking on an icon on the guide to clear the message. This way even though the message may be placed by the system operator in the morning the user may still see the message when the user watches television at Prime Time. After the message is cleared the system will place advertisements or promotions appropriate for the time when the message is cleared in the information screen.

As shown in the user may choose to connect to the Seinfeld web page the NBC web page that promotes the Seinfeld show or the Comedy Network web page by clicking on one of the three website icons and respectively. The system will launch a web browser when the user selects an information region that promotes a website or tunes to a virtual channel containing a URL. After the user has made his her selection the system will insert the URL corresponding to the selected website into the web browser which will begin to access the web and search for the website selected by the user to connect the user to the website data page. Hence if the user selects one of the website icons the system will connect the user to the website that corresponds to the icon. is an illustration of a web page shown to the user when the user chooses to connect to the NBC web page. As shown after the user is connected to the page the user may participate in promotions on the page just as if the user had connected to the page directly through a web browser.

In another preferred embodiment after the user has selected either icon or of the user may tune to the program the viewer was watching before accessing the guide. The system will display a searching symbol while launching a web browser and searching for the website that the user has requested. After the system has connected to the website the system will notify the user that the search is complete and asks whether the user wishes to hypertune to the web page. In yet another preferred embodiment the user may click on any program titles shown in the program guide cells and the system will display a list of one or more websites that are related to the program. The user may select to tune to the program or connect to one of the websites. In addition the user may click on an icon or press a remote control button to toggle between watching television and browsing the web.

As shown in information region contains program promotional information. Since information region is interactive with the user the user may click on information region to get further information about the programs shown in the region. The user may further click on information region to tune to the program if it is currently on or the user may schedule an autotune to the program when it comes on. When autotune is scheduled the system may or may not notify the user before automatically tuning to the program when the program comes on. Preferably the system will request confirmation from the user before automatically tuning to the program. Finally the user may schedule a recording of a future program or begin recording of a program currently on. As discussed if the system requests confirmation from the user additional information regions may be displayed while the user confirms his her request.

Information region may either be a static or scrolling message area that contains selected news or sports information. For example the latest sports scores can scroll across information region . Although in the preferred embodiment the type of information shown in information region is determined by the system operator it is also possible to allow the user to select the type of information to be shown in information region .

In the user has selected National News. is an illustration of a submenu of information guide screen . As can be seen submenu further breaks National News down into the different headlines. In a preferred embodiment the user may tune to CNN or other Network News Station from submenu . The system operator may charge a fee for this service and may allow the user to tune to one or more Network News Station depending on the fees paid by the Network News Providers. Hence CNN for example may pay a premium fee to be the only News Station that the user may connect to from submenu . Alternatively CNN may pay a regular fee and the user may tune to CNN and other News Stations that have paid the regular fee.

From submenu the user may highlight one of the headlines to select the headline and obtain the story. In this example the story is displayed according to in a news information screen . Alternatively the user may click on a video icon not shown on screen to further view a video clip relating to the story. The system may access the video clip via the video network i.e. via cable direct broadcast satellite and the like. The video clip could be generated from compressed data and if so it may be presented in a PIP tickler format. Alternatively the system may link to for example CNN s website and retrieve an Audio Video Interleaved AVI file to present a moving picture related to the headline to the user. The video icon may also be available from submenu screen . Hence the user may click on the icon to view a video clip of the headline directly instead of reading the story. In another preferred embodiment the system may automatically activate a video clip corresponding to whichever news headline that the user has selected thereby eliminating the need for the user to activate an icon in order to view the video clip.

From submenu the user may highlight one of the scoreboards to select the scoreboard and obtain scores pertaining to the board. In this example the scores are displayed according to in a sports information screen . As shown in screen the scores are presented in grid format. Other arrangements may of course be used so long as the information is presented in a logical fashion. From information screen the user may also click on a video icon not shown to further view a video clip relating to the game. As discussed the system may access the video clip via the video network i.e. via cable direct broadcast satellite and the like and this video clip could be generated from compressed data. Alternatively the system may link to for example the NFL s website and retrieve an AVI file if it is available to present a moving picture related to the game to the user.

In the user has selected weather forecast for the United States hence the user may be shown a U.S. weather information screen which displays the information in a column fashion. Other display arrangements that displays the information in a logical manner may also be used furthermore the information may be more detailed than that shown in information screen . is an illustration of a submenu that is similar to submenu except in the user has selected weather forecast for Berkeley instead of for the U.S. Hence the user is shown a forecast of Berkeley weather in an information screen instead. Since the weather information is for a local region it is more detailed and provides more information to the user. As shown in the weather information is displayed in a row fashion. Again other arrangements for presenting the weather information may also be used as long as the information is organized in a logical manner.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes a plug in program guide controller module . Module determines the extent of program guide s capabilities. Thus module may only allow program guide to provide a non interactive guide or the guide may not have information icons. When the user wants to upgrade program guide for example adding interactive capability information icons or more detailed category searching module may be replaced with a different module authorizing more extensive guide capabilities. This embodiment has the distinct advantage of allowing the system to be significantly altered without requiring major hardware changes. Since the user upgrades module to upgrade the guide the user does not need the system operator to provide technical support. In this scenario the user would merely procure a different module install the new module into the program guide system and pay the new fee set by the system operator for the new benefits.

Preferably the system operates under the control of software applications on a renewable computer memory. The memory for the software applications may be located in one or more IC s for example the plug in module of the data processor or in ROM RAM FLASH memory or any combination thereof. Accordingly the disclosures and descriptions herein are intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

