---

title: Vocal command directives to compose dynamic display text
abstract: Methods, apparatus, products are disclosed for displaying speech for a user of a surface computer, the surface computer comprising a surface, the surface computer capable of receiving multi-touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface, that include: registering, by the surface computer, a plurality of users with the surface computer; allocating, by the surface computer to each registered user, a portion of the surface for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer; detecting, by the surface computer, a speech utterance from one of the plurality of users; determining, by the surface computer using a speech engine, speech text in dependence upon the speech utterance; creating, by the surface computer, display text in dependence upon the speech text; and rendering, by the surface computer, the display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08024185&OS=08024185&RS=08024185
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08024185
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071010
---
The field of the invention is data processing or more specifically methods apparatus and products for displaying speech for a user of a surface computer.

Multi touch surface computing is an area of computing that has made tremendous advancements over the last few years. Multi touch surface computing allows a user to interact with a computer through a surface that is typically implemented as a table top. The computer renders a graphical user interface GUI on the surface and users may manipulate GUI objects directly with their hands using multi touch technology as opposed to using traditional input devices such as a mouse or a keyboard. In such a manner the devices through which users provide input and receive output are merged into a single surface which provide an intuitive and efficient mechanism for users to interact with the computer. As surface computing becomes more ubiquitous in everyday environments readers will appreciate advancements in how users may utilize surface computing to intuitively and efficiently perform tasks that may be cumbersome using traditional input devices such as a keyboard and mouse.

Methods apparatus products are disclosed for displaying speech for a user of a surface computer the surface computer comprising a surface the surface computer capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface that include registering by the surface computer a plurality of users with the surface computer allocating by the surface computer to each registered user a portion of the surface for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer detecting by the surface computer a speech utterance from one of the plurality of users determining by the surface computer using a speech engine speech text in dependence upon the speech utterance creating by the surface computer display text in dependence upon the speech text and rendering by the surface computer the display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface.

The foregoing and other objects features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular descriptions of exemplary embodiments of the invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numbers generally represent like parts of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Exemplary methods apparatus and products for displaying speech for a user of a surface computer in accordance with the present invention are described with reference to the accompanying drawings beginning with . sets forth a functional block diagram of an exemplary surface computer capable of displaying documents to a plurality of users according to embodiments of the present invention. The exemplary surface computer of includes a surface mounted atop a base that houses the other components of the surface computer . The surface may be implemented using acrylic glass or other materials as will occur to those of skill in the art. In addition to the computing functionality provided by the surface computer the surface of may also serve as a table top for a coffee table dining table a conference table or some other table as will occur those of skill in the art. Examples of a surface computer that may be improved for displaying speech for a user according to embodiments of the present invention may include the Microsoft Surface and the ROSIE Coffee Table by Savant.

The exemplary surface computer of is capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface . Multi touch input refers to the ability of the surface computer to recognize multiple simultaneous points of contact between objects and the surface . These objects may include hands fingers portable electronic devices papers cups plates or any other object as will occur to those of skill in the art. Such recognition may include the position and pressure or degree of each point of contact which allows gestures and interaction with multiple fingers or hands through intuitive gestures. Depending largely on the size of the surface a surface computer typically supports interaction with more than one user or object simultaneously. In the example of the surface computer supports interaction with a plurality of users.

In the example of the exemplary surface computer receives multi touch input through the surface by reflecting infrared light off of objects on top of the surface and capturing the reflected images of the objects using multiple infrared cameras mounted inside the base . Using the reflected infrared images the surface computer may then perform pattern matching to determine the type of objects that the images represent. The objects may include fingers hands portable electronic devices papers and so on. The infrared light used to generate the images of the objects is provided by an infrared lamp mounted to the base of the surface computer . Readers will note that infrared light may be used to prevent any interference with users ability to view the surface because infrared light is typically not visible to the human eye.

Although the exemplary surface computer of above receives multi touch input through the surface using a system of infrared lamps and cameras readers will note that such implementation are for explanation only and not for limitation. In fact other embodiments of a surface computer for displaying documents to a plurality of users according to embodiments of the present invention may use other technologies as will occur to those of skill in the art such as for example frustrated total internal reflection. Frustrated total internal reflection refers to a technology that disperses light through a surface using internal reflection. When an object comes in contact with one side of the surface the dispersed light inside the surface scatters onto light detectors on the opposite side of the surface thereby identifying the point at which the object touched the surface. Other technologies may include dispersive signal technology and acoustic pulse recognition.

In the example of the surface computer renders display output on the surface using a projector . The projector renders a GUI on the surface for viewing by the users. The projector of is implemented using Digital Light Processing DLP technology originally developed at Texas Instruments. Other technologies useful in implementing the projector may include liquid crystal display LCD technology and liquid crystal on silicon LCOS technology. Although the exemplary surface computer of above displays output on the surface using a projector readers will note that such an implementation is for explanation and not for limitation. In fact other embodiments of a surface computer for displaying documents to a plurality of users according to embodiments of the present invention may use other technologies as will occur to those of skill in the art such as for example embedding a flat panel display into the surface .

The surface computer of includes one or more computer processors as well as random access memory RAM . The processors are connected to other components of the system through a front side bus and bus adapter . The processors are connected to RAM through a high speed memory bus and to expansion components through an extension bus .

Stored in RAM is a speech display module software that includes computer program instructions for displaying speech for a user of the surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention. The speech display module operates generally for displaying speech for a user of the surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention by registering a plurality of users with the surface computer allocating to each registered user a portion of the surface for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer detecting a speech utterance from one of the plurality of users determining using a speech engine speech text in dependence upon the speech utterance creating display text in dependence upon the speech text and rendering the display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface. Readers will note that in a preferred embodiment the display surface is sufficiently large to accommodate several individuals seated around the display surface such as for example when the surface computer serves as a conference table.

Also stored in RAM is a speech engine . The speech engine of is a software module although it may be implemented as specialized hardware also that does the work of recognizing and synthesizing human speech. The speech engine implements speech recognition by use of a further module referred to in this specification as an automated speech recognition ASR engine . The speech engine carries out speech synthesis by use of a further module referred to in this specification as a text to speech TTS engine . As shown in a speech engine may be installed locally in the surface computer itself but readers will note that the speech engine may be installed remotely with respect to the surface computer across the data communications network in a voice server not shown . Because the speech engine in the example of is installed locally on the surface computer the speech engine provides speech recognition and synthesis services to the speech display module through an application programming interface API exposed by the speech engine . When the speech engine is located remotely across a network from the surface computer the speech display module may obtain speech recognition and speech synthesis services from a voice server located remotely across a network through calls to an API exposed by a thin voice services client installed on the surface computer. The thin voice services client in turn accesses the speech engine on the voice server over the network and returns the results to the speech display module .

In the example of the speech engine includes a grammar a lexicon and a language specific acoustic model . The language specific acoustic model is a data structure a table or database for example that associates Speech Feature Vectors SFV with phonemes representing to the extent that it is practically feasible to do so all pronunciations of all the words in a human language. The lexicon is an association of words in text form with phonemes representing pronunciations of each word the lexicon effectively identifies words that are capable of recognition by an ASR engine. The grammar communicates to the ASR engine the words and sequences of words that currently may be recognized. For precise understanding readers will note the distinction between the purpose of the grammar and the purpose of the lexicon. The lexicon associates with phonemes all the words that the ASR engine can recognize. The grammar communicates the words currently eligible for recognition. The set of words currently eligible for recognition and the set of words capable of recognition may or may not be the same. Narrowing the set of eligible words to use during speech recognition with a grammar is useful to speed up the speech recognition process. In some embodiments however readers will appreciate that the speech engine may not utilize a grammar .

In the example of the speech display module receives a speech utterance from a user through one or more microphones and passes the speech utterance along to the ASR engine for recognition. The ASR engine receives speech utterance for recognition in the form of at least one digitized word and uses frequency components of the digitized words to derive a Speech Feature Vector. An SFV may be defined for example by the first twelve or thirteen Fourier or frequency domain components of a sample of digitized speech. The ASR engine can use the SFV to infer phonemes for the word from the language specific acoustic model . The ASR engine then uses the phonemes to find the word in the lexicon . The Text To Speech TTS Engine accepts text as input and returns the same text in the form of digitally encoded speech for use in providing speech as prompts for and responses to users of the surface computer .

The surface computer may digitally encode the speech utterance according to industry standard codecs including those used for Distributed Speech Recognition DSR as such. The term codec refers to methods for COding DECoding speech. The European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI provides several codecs for encoding speech for use in DSR including for example the ETSI ES 201 108 DSR Front end Codec the ETSI ES 202 050 Advanced DSR Front end Codec the ETSI ES 202 211 Extended DSR Front end Codec and the ETSI ES 202 212 Extended Advanced DSR Front end Codec. In standards such as RFC3557 entitled

When grammars are used in displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention such grammars may be expressed in any format supported by an ASR engine including for example the Java Speech Grammar Format JSGF the format of the W3C Speech Recognition Grammar Specification SRGS the Augmented Backus Naur Format ABNF from the IETF s RFC2234 in the form of a stochastic grammar as described in the W3C s Stochastic Language Models N Gram Specification and in other grammar formats as may occur to those of skill in the art. Here is an example of a grammar expressed in JSFG 

In this example the elements named and are rules of the grammar. Rules are a combination of a rulename and an expansion of a rule that advises an ASR engine which words presently can be recognized. In the example above rule expansions includes conjunction and disjunction and the vertical bars mean or. An ASR engine processes the rules in sequence first then then . The rule accepts for recognition call or phone or telephone plus that is in conjunction with whatever is returned from the rule and the rule. The rule accepts bob or martha or joe or pete or chris or john or artoush or tom and the rule accepts today or this afternoon or tomorrow or next week. The command grammar as a whole matches utterances like these for example 

The exemplary grammar above is implemented using static grammar rules. Readers will note however that grammars useful according to embodiments of the present invention may also be implemented using dynamically defined grammar rules that are specified by the grammar as rules that are not to be processed by the ASR engine until after at least one static rule has been matched. Such dynamic rules are dynamically defined at run time as a new static rule in dependence upon a matched value of a previously matched static rule. The following grammar for example 

The URL identifies a computer resource capable of dynamically defining at run time the dynamic rule of the grammar as a new static rule in dependence upon matched value from the rule the rule required to be matched before the dynamic rule is processed. In this example the computer resource so identified is a Java Server Page JSP located at http groceries.com. The JSP is a computer resource that is programmed to define the dynamic rule of the grammar as a new static rule in dependence upon matched value from the rule. The ASR engine expands the definition of the rule with the results of the match from the rule and provides the expansion to the JSP page to return a new static rule. In this way the ASR engine may dynamically define the dynamic rule at run time as a new static rule by expanding the definition of the dynamic rule with a matched value of the referenced static rule. If the rule were matched with peppers for example then the definition of the dynamic rule may be expanded as 

If the rule were matched with tomatoes for example then the definition of the dynamic rule may be expanded as 

If the rule were matched with toothpaste for example then the definition of the dynamic rule may be expanded as 

And so on with a different definition of the new static rule possible for each matched value of the referenced static rule.

Also stored in RAM is an operating system . Operating systems useful for applying displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention may include or be derived from UNIX Linux Microsoft Vista Microsoft XP AIX IBM s i5 OS and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. The operating system and the speech display module in the example of are shown in RAM but many components of such software typically are stored in non volatile memory also such as for example on a disk drive .

The surface computer of includes disk drive adapter coupled through expansion bus and bus adapter to processor and other components of the computing device . Disk drive adapter connects non volatile data storage to the computing device in the form of disk drive . Disk drive adapters useful in computing devices for displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention include Integrated Drive Electronics IDE adapters Small Computer System Interface SCSI adapters and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Non volatile computer memory also may be implemented for as an optical disk drive electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or Flash memory RAM drives and so on as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The example surface computer of includes one or more input output I O adapters . I O adapters implement user oriented input output through for example software drivers and computer hardware for controlling output to devices such as computer display screens or speakers as well as user input from user input devices such as for example microphone for collecting speech input. The example surface computer of also includes a Digital Light Processing adapter which is an example of an I O adapter specially designed for graphic output to the projector . Video adapter is connected to processor through a high speed video bus bus adapter and the front side bus which is also a high speed bus.

The exemplary surface computer of includes video capture hardware that converts image signals received from the infrared cameras to digital video for further processing including pattern recognition. The video capture hardware of may use any number of video codec including for example codec described in the Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG family of specifications the H.264 standard the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers 421M standard or any other video codec as will occur to those of skill in the art. Although the video capture hardware of is depicted separately from the infrared cameras readers will note that in some embodiment the video capture hardware may be incorporated into the cameras . In such embodiments the infrared camera may connect to the other components of the surface computer through a Universal Serial Bus USB connection FireWire connection or any other data communications connection as will occur to those of skill in the art.

The exemplary surface computer of also includes an Inter Integrated Circuit IC bus adapter . The IC bus protocol is a serial computer bus protocol for connecting electronic components inside a computer that was first published in 1982 by Philips. IC is a simple low bandwidth short distance protocol. Through the IC bus adapter the processors control the infrared lamp . Although the exemplary surface computer utilizes the IC protocol readers will note this is for explanation and not for limitation. The bus adapter may be implemented using other technologies as will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art including for example technologies described in the Intelligent Platform Management Interface IPMI specification the System Management Bus SMBus specification the Joint Test Action Group JTAG specification and so on.

The exemplary surface computer of also includes a communications adapter that couples the surface computer for data communications with other computing devices through a data communications network . Such a data communication network may be implemented with external buses such as a Universal Serial Bus USB or as an Internet Protocol IP network or an Ethernet network for example and in other ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. Communications adapters implement the hardware level of data communications through which one computer sends data communications to another computer directly or through a data communications network. Examples of communications adapters useful for displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention include modems for wired dial up communications Ethernet IEEE 802.3 adapters for wired data communications network communications and 802.11 adapters for wireless data communications network communications.

The arrangement of networks and other devices making up the exemplary system illustrated in are for explanation not for limitation. Data processing systems useful according to various embodiments of the present invention may include additional servers routers other devices and peer to peer architectures not shown in as will occur to those of skill in the art. Networks in such data processing systems may support many data communications protocols including for example TCP Transmission Control Protocol IP Internet Protocol HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol WAP Wireless Access Protocol HDTP Handheld Device Transport Protocol and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Various embodiments of the present invention may be implemented on a variety of hardware platforms in addition to those illustrated in .

For further explanation set forth line drawings illustrating exemplary surfaces useful in displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention. The surface of is comprised in a surface computer . The surface computer is capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface .

In the examples of several users are positioned adjacent to the surface computer for interaction through the surface . Each user may choose their respective position around the surface computer by choosing a chair in which to sit around the surface computer or by merely standing near an edge of the surface . After the users choose a location near the surface the surface computer registers the users with the surface computer and assigns a portion of the surface to each registered user for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer . Registering the users with the surface computer and allocating a portion of the surface to each registered user is discussed in more detail below.

In the surface computer detects a speech utterance from user . The surface computer may detect the speech utterance through one or more microphones included in the surface computer and store the speech utterance as digitally encoded speech. The surface computer then determines speech text using a speech engine in dependence upon the speech utterance . The speech text of is a textual representation of the speech utterance detected by the surface computer . Consider for example that the users are managers of an organization having a meeting around the surface computer . In such an example the surface computer detects the following exemplary speech utterance spoken by the lead manager 

In this example the surface computer may determine the speech text from the speech utterance by passing the digitally encoded audio representation of the speech to a speech engine and receiving in return the following exemplary speech text 

In the surface computer creates display text in dependence upon the speech text and renders the display text on each user s allocated portion of the surface . The display text is the text that the surface computer derives from the speech text and renders on the surface . Continuing with the exemplary speech text above the surface computer may create the following exemplary display text 

The exemplary display text above is a To Do list based on the exemplary speech text above determined by the surface computer from the exemplary speech utterance above. The surface computer creates the exemplary display text above by selecting one or more portions of the exemplary speech text as the display text using speech text selection and formatting rules. For example in the creation of the exemplary display text above the speech text selection and formatting rules specify listing each sentence as a task in the To Do list. Because the exemplary speech text is composed of two sentences the exemplary display text therefore is composed of two tasks. The exemplary speech text selection and formatting rules further specify that each task is composed of the verb and all of the grammatical elements following the verb in that task s corresponding sentence. For example the first sentence of the exemplary speech text is Everyone find ways to increase profitability in your department. The verb and all of the grammatical elements following the verb in that sentence are find ways to increase profitability in your department which is configured as the first task in the exemplary display text by the surface computer . The speech text selection and formatting rules also specify prepending in parenthesis each task with the noun and all the grammatical elements preceding the verb in that task s corresponding sentence. Continuing with the example from above the noun and all the grammatical elements preceding the verb in the first sentence of the speech text is Everyone which is prepended by the surface computer to the first task in the exemplary display text. Readers will note that the exemplary speech utterance exemplary speech text and exemplary display text above are for explanation and not for limitation.

Furthermore readers will note that the surface computer may create display text based on the speech text in a variety of ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. As discussed above the surface computer may create display text in dependence upon the speech text by selecting one or more portions of the speech text as the display text such as in the exemplary display text above. In some other embodiments the surface computer may create display text in dependence upon the speech text by selecting the display text from a predefined display text repository in dependence upon one or more portions of the speech text. For example consider that the surface computer detected the following speech utterance from one of the user s 

The surface computer may then parse the exemplary speech text to determine that the exemplary speech text represents a question about a financial instrument having a ticker symbol QQQQ. Using the QQQQ portion of the exemplary speech text the surface computer may query a predefined display text repository implemented as a web based financial database using the following exemplary URL 

The exemplary query above may return the following exemplary table in HTML that the surface computer selects as the following exemplary display text 

At any point in time after rendering the display text on the surface any of the users may modify the display text using an additional speech utterance. therefore illustrates the surface computer detecting a second speech utterance from user . The surface computer detects the speech utterance through one or more microphones included in the surface computer and stores the speech utterance as digitally encoded speech. The surface computer then determines using the speech engine a second speech text in dependence upon the second speech utterance . Continuing with the example from above in which the users are managers of an organization having a meeting around the surface computer and the lead manager says Everyone find ways to increase profitability in your department. Next week bring a list of three ideas to accomplish this task to the meeting. In such an example the surface computer may detect the following exemplary second speech utterance by another manager 

In this example the surface computer may determine the second speech text from the second speech utterance by passing the digitally encoded audio representation of the speech to a speech engine and receiving in return the following exemplary second speech text 

In the surface computer modifies the current display text in dependence upon the second speech text and renders the modified display text on each user s allocated portion of the surface . The modified display text is the text that the surface computer derives from the second speech text and the current display text. Continuing with the exemplary second speech text above the surface computer may modify the previous exemplary display text 

The exemplary modified display text above is implemented as a To Do list in a manner similar to the exemplary display text above. The exemplary modified display text however includes an additional task Do not forget the company picnic that will occur in October derived from the exemplary second speech text in turn derived from the exemplary second speech utterance. Readers will note that the exemplary second speech utterance exemplary second speech text and the exemplary modified display text above are for explanation and not for limitation. Although in the example above the second speech text is used modify the display text by adding additional information readers will note that such a modification is for example only and not for limitation. In fact the surface computer may modify the current display text by adding or subtracting display content such as for example text graphics videos control widgets and any other content capable of being displayed on the surface as will occur to those of skill in the art.

In the example of the surface computer renders the display text and the modified display text on the portion of the surface allocated to each of the users. In some other embodiments however the display text may be rendered on the portion of the surface allocated to the particular user to which the speech utterance is directed. For further explanation set forth line drawings illustrating exemplary surfaces useful in displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention. The surface of is comprised in a surface computer . The surface computer is capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface .

In the examples of several users are positioned adjacent to the surface computer for interaction through the surface . Each user may choose their respective position around the surface computer by choosing a chair in which to sit around the surface computer or by merely standing near an edge of the surface . After the users choose a location near the surface the surface computer registers the users with the surface computer and assigns a portion of the surface to each registered user for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer . Registering the users with the surface computer and allocating a portion of the surface to each registered user is discussed in more detail below.

In the surface computer detects a speech utterance from user . The surface computer detects the speech utterance through one or more microphones included in the surface computer and stores the speech utterance as digitally encoded speech. The surface computer then determines speech text using a speech engine in dependence upon the speech utterance . The speech text of is a textual representation of the speech utterance detected by the surface computer . Consider for example that the users are managers of an organization having a meeting around the surface computer . In such an example the surface computer detects the following exemplary speech utterance spoken by the lead manager 

In this example the surface computer may determine the speech text from the speech utterance by passing the digitally encoded audio representation of the speech to a speech engine and receiving in return the following exemplary speech text 

In the surface computer creates display text in dependence upon the speech text . Continuing with the exemplary speech text above the surface computer may create the following exemplary display text 

The exemplary display text above is a To Do list based on the exemplary speech text above determined by the surface computer from the exemplary speech utterance above. Readers will note that the exemplary speech utterance exemplary speech text and exemplary display text above are for explanation and not for limitation.

In the surface computer also determines to which particular user of the users the speech utterance is directed and renders the display text on the portion of the surface allocated to the particular user to which the speech utterance is directed. In the example of the user directs the speech utterance to user . The surface computer may determine to which particular user of the users the speech utterance is directed in any number of ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. The surface computer may determine to which particular user of the users the speech utterance is directed by parsing the speech text for the name of the user to which the speech utterance is directed. For example the surface computer may parse the exemplary speech text above to determine that the speech utterance is directed to Bob. In some other embodiments the surface computer may determine to which particular user of the users the speech utterance is directed by receiving an indication from the user providing the speech utterance through the surface . For example as the user speaks the speech utterance the user may use a gesture to select user on the surface .

For further explanation of the present invention sets forth a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method of displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention. The surface computer described with reference to includes a surface. The surface computer of is capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface.

The method of includes registering by the surface computer a plurality of users with the surface computer. Registering a plurality of users with the surface computer according to the method of may be carried out by authenticating the identity of a user through the user s interaction with the surface computer and determining the user s authorization for using the surface computer. The authentication process may be carried out in variety of ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. For example the surface computer may render a list of authorized users on the surface to allow the requesting user to select their name from the list. Upon selecting their name the user may provide a password or other security tokens used for authentication. Consider another example in which the users are all part of the same team in a company and are using the surface computer to conduct a team meeting. In such an example the authentication process may be carried out by placing the user s company RFID badge on the surface so that the surface computer may identify the user by comparing security data retrieved from the user s company RFID badge with security data for the user stored in the company s employee database. Still further other examples of authenticating a user may include the use of biometric authentication such as for example voice prints retinal scans or fingerprint matching or the use of public private key infrastructures.

After authenticating the user the surface computer may determine the user s authorization for using the surface computer by retrieving access permissions for the authenticated user from the surface computer s authorization policy. The granularity of the access permissions may vary from one embodiment to another. For example an authorization policy may provide either complete access to the surface computer or no access to the surface computer at all depending on the user s identity. In other embodiments an authorization policy may provide access to view documents using the surface computer but no authorization to add modify or delete documents. Readers will note that the authorization policy may not assign access permission directly to individual users. Rather the authorization policy may assign access permissions to a group to which an individual user belongs.

The method of also includes allocating by the surface computer to each registered user a portion of the surface for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer. Allocating to each registered user a portion of the surface for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer according to the method of may be carried out by identifying a point on the surface that is adjacent to that registered user and defining a region around that identified point for use by that registered user to interact with the surface computer. The surface computer may identify a point on the surface that is adjacent to a registered user by instructing a user to touch the surface directly in front of that user and detecting the location of the user s touch though any number of multi touch detection technologies such as for example surface image processing or frustrated total internal reflection. Other techniques for identifying a point on the surface that is adjacent to a registered user may include allocating a point on the surface that is adjacent to a registered user by detecting the user s position relative to the table through location triangulation using a set of microphones that capture the user s speech or proximity sensors.

The surface computer may define a region around that identified point by establishing a boundary around the identified point that extends from the edge of the surface toward the center of the surface. Combined with the edge of the surface the boundary may resemble a rectangle a semicircle a triangle or any other geometric shape. In some embodiments the surface computer may render a line along the boundary of the region to aid the users in visualizing their portions of the surface through which they may interact with the surface computer. Once defined the boundary used to define the region may be fixed or movable by the user. The user may move the boundary by manipulating the lines rendered on the surface using the user s fingers. For example if the user wants a larger portion of the surface with which to interact with the surface computer then the user may drag the boundary line defining the user s portion of the surface away from the user. The surface computer may detect the user s input recognize the input as an adjustment to the user s boundary reassign the surface portion to the user based on the boundary adjustment input and redraw the boundary line at the edge of the user s allocated portion of the surface.

Readers will note that allocating to each registered user a portion of the surface for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer as described above is carried out using input from the users of the surface computer. In some other embodiments however allocating to each registered user a portion of the surface for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer may be carried out without any user intervention at all. The surface computer may assign a portion of the surface to each user based on user preferences provided in the user s profile such as for example the user s preferred location around the surface. The surface computer may retrieve the user s profile from a repository during the registration process described above. In other embodiments a moderator may provide the surface computer with assignment instructions for each of the users around the surface. Readers will note that the surface computer may adjust the size of each user s allocated portion based on the surface size the number of users sitting around the surface and so on.

The method of also includes detecting by the surface computer a speech utterance from one of the plurality of users. A speech utterance is an audio representation of the speech spoken by a user. The surface computer may detect a speech utterance from one of the plurality of users according to the method of by receiving audio input through one or more microphones and digitally encoding the received audio input using one or more audio codecs as described above.

The method of includes determining by the surface computer using a speech engine speech text in dependence upon the speech utterance. Speech text is the textual representation of the speech spoken by a user. The surface computer may determine the speech text in dependence upon the speech utterance according to the method of by passing the digitally encoded speech utterance to an ASR engine of the speech engine through an API exposed by the speech engine and receiving in return the speech text from the ASR engine. Because ASR engine often generates the speech text using some form of statistical analysis the ASR engine often returns a confidence level for the speech text. This confidence level represents the statistical probability that the speech text returned by the ASR engine in fact matches the speech utterance spoken by the user. Readers will note that in some embodiments the ASR engine may return a set of speech texts along with each speech text s associated confidence level in response to the ASR engine receiving a single speech utterance. In such embodiments the surface computer may determine the speech text in dependence upon the speech utterance according to the method of by selecting the speech text associated with the highest confidence level.

The method of also includes creating by the surface computer display text in dependence upon the speech text. Display text is text for display on the surface that is derived from the speech text. In some embodiments where the surface computer depicts the speech of the users word for word the display text is the speech text. In some other embodiments however the surface computer may create the display text according to the method of by selecting one or more portions of the speech text as the display text. For example consider that the following exemplary speech text representing the speech spoken by a user 

The surface computer may select the find ways to increase profitability in your department and the bring a list of three ideas to accomplish this task to the meeting portions of the exemplary speech text above along with other text and formatting as the following exemplary display text 

In still other embodiments the surface computer may create the display text according to the method of by selecting the display text from a predefined display text repository in dependence upon one or more portions of the speech text. For example consider that the following exemplary speech text representing the speech spoken by a user 

The surface computer may then parse the exemplary speech text to determine that the exemplary speech text represents a question about a financial instrument having a ticker symbol QQQQ. Using the QQQQ portion of the exemplary speech text the surface computer may query a predefined display text repository implemented as a web based financial database using the following exemplary URL 

The exemplary query above may return the following exemplary table in HTML that the surface computer selects as the following exemplary display text 

Readers will note that the exemplary speech text and the exemplary display text illustrated above are for explanation only and not for limitation. Any speech text or display text as will occur to those of ordinary skill in the art may useful for displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention

The method of also includes rendering by the surface computer the display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface. The surface computer may render the display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface according to the method of by displaying the display text on the surface such that the top of the display text is oriented toward the center of the surface. Readers will note that the display text may be rendered within a particular program context or outside of any program context. In addition the surface computer may format or arrange the display text according to any number of system parameters or user inputs such as for example the manner in which a user speaks the speech utterance corresponding to the particular display text or portion of the display text. Furthermore readers will note that the display text may be saved in computer memory for subsequent access.

At any point in time after rendering the display text on the surface any of the users may modify the display text by speaking an additional speech utterance. The method of therefore includes detecting by the surface computer a second speech utterance from any of the plurality of users. The surface computer may detect a second speech utterance from any of the plurality of users according to the method of by receiving audio input through one or more microphones and digitally encoding the received audio input using one or more audio codecs as described above.

The method of includes determining by the surface computer using the speech engine a second speech text in dependence upon the second speech utterance. The surface computer may determine a second speech text in dependence upon the second speech utterance using the speech engine according to the method of by passing the digitally encoded second speech utterance to an ASR engine of the speech engine through an API exposed by the speech engine and receiving in return the second speech text from the ASR engine.

The method of includes modifying by the surface computer the display text in dependence upon the second speech text. The surface computer may modify the display text in dependence upon the second speech text according to the method of by adding or subtracting text to the current display text. Such text and whether it is added or subtracted to the current display text may be determined by the surface computer using the second speech text. For example consider that the current display text is 

As the surface computer parses the exemplary second speech text using a parsing ruleset surface computer determines that it can remove the first task in the current display text illustrated above. As such the surface computer modifies the current display text to the following modified display text 

The method of also includes rendering by the surface computer the modified display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface. The surface computer may render the modified display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface according to the method of by displaying the modified display text on the surface such that the top of the display text is oriented toward the center of the surface.

The method of also includes detecting by the surface computer a portable computing device placed on the surface. The surface computer may detect a portable computing device placed on the surface according to the method of using any number of multi touch detection technologies such as for example surface image processing or frustrated total internal reflection. Using surface image processing to detect the portable computing device for example the surface computer analyzes an image of the surface to identify the computing device using pattern recognition software. After recognizing the computing device the surface computer may retrieve connection information from a device data repository used to establish data communications with the computing device placed on the surface. To aid identification of the portable computing device a small infrared tag may be affixed to the device that provides the surface computer with a device identifier for the device.

Using frustrated total internal reflection technology to identify the computer device for example the surface computer is able to detect that a device is placed on the surface. Upon detecting that the device is place on the surface of the surface computer the surface computer may interrogate the device to retrieve data communication connection information. In some embodiments the portable computing device may have affixed to it an RFID tag that the surface computer may use to retrieve a device identifier for the device which in turn may be used by the surface computer to retrieve data communication connection information from a device data repository.

The method of includes transferring by the surface computer the display text to the portable computing device for storage. The surface computer may transfer the display text to the portable computing device for storage according to the method of by establishing a data communication connection using the information retrieved upon detecting the portable computing device and sending a copy of the display text to the portable computing device though the data communications connect. Readers will note that in some embodiments the surface computer may determine whether the user is authorized to store a copy of the display on the user s portable computing device and only permit the transfer of the display text to the device if the user is authorized. Similarly the surface computer may determine whether the portable computing device itself is authorized or capable of storing a copy of the display text and only permit the transfer of the display text to the device if the device is authorized.

Although the description above with reference to describes an exemplary embodiment in which the display text is transferred to a portable computing device for storage readers will note that this embodiment is for explanation and not for limitation. In other embodiments readers will note that the display text may be transmitted to another computer device through a network such as for example a wide area network WAN local area network LAN the Internet and so on.

To better aid the surface computer in recognizing speech from various users the surface computer may configure a speech engine with individual recognition characteristics tailored for each user utilizing the surface computer. For example the surface computer may configure a speech engine optimized to recognize a user with an Indian accent and configure another speech engine optimized to recognize a user with a New York accent. In such manner the surface computer s ability to recognize the speech spoken by each user of the surface computer may be greatly improved. For further explanation therefore consider that sets forth a flow chart illustrating a further exemplary method of displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention. The surface computer described with reference to includes a surface. The surface computer of is capable of receiving multi touch input through the surface and rendering display output on the surface.

The method of is similar to the method of . That is the method of includes registering by the surface computer a plurality of users with the surface computer allocating by the surface computer to each registered user a portion of the surface for interaction between that registered user and the surface computer detecting by the surface computer a speech utterance from one of the plurality of users determining by the surface computer using a speech engine speech text in dependence upon the speech utterance creating by the surface computer display text in dependence upon the speech text and rendering by the surface computer the display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface.

The method of differs from the method of in that registering by the surface computer a plurality of users with the surface computer according to the method of includes selecting a speech engine configuration for each registered user in dependence upon a user profile for that registered user. A speech engine configuration specifies the acoustic model lexicon grammar if any and any other configuration parameters used by a speech engine to perform voice services such as recognition and synthesis. The surface computer may select a speech engine configuration for each registered user according to the method of by retrieving each user s profile from a profile repository after identifying that user during the registration process with the surface computer and caching that user s speech engine configuration parameters specified in that user s profile for use in initializing a speech engine tailored for that individual user. The users profiles may be previously stored in the profile repository by some other computer system in any manner as will occur to those of skill in the art. The surface computer may then utilize the cached speech engine configuration parameters to initialize a speech engine optimized to provide voice services for that particular user.

In the method of determining by the surface computer using a speech engine speech text in dependence upon the speech utterance includes determining the speech text using the speech engine configuration for at least one of the registered users. The surface computer may determine the speech text using the speech engine configuration for at least one of the registered users according to the method of by passing the digitally encoded speech utterance to the speech engine for the particular user providing the speech utterance through an API exposed by that speech engine and receiving in return the speech text from that user s speech engine. The surface computer may identify the speech engine to use in determining the speech text by detecting the originating location of the speech utterance using a set of microphones and a triangulation algorithm identifying the portion of the surface closest to the detected origin of the speech utterance and utilizing the speech engine for the user allocated to that portion to recognize the speech utterance. In some other embodiments the surface computer may determine the speech text using the speech engine configuration for at least one of the registered users according to the method of by passing the speech utterance to each user s personalized speech engine retrieving speech text and confidence levels from each of the speech engines and selecting the speech text having the highest confidence level.

The method of also includes determining by the surface computer to which particular user of the plurality of users the speech utterance is directed. The surface computer may determine to which particular user of the plurality of users the speech utterance is directed according to the method of in any number of ways as will occur to those of skill in the art. The surface computer may determine to which particular user of the users the speech utterance is directed by parsing the speech text for the name of the user to which the speech utterance is directed. For example the surface computer may parse the exemplary speech text Bob get Jim the financial statements from last quarter to determine that the speech utterance is directed to Bob. In some other embodiments the surface computer may determine to which particular user of the users the speech utterance is directed by receiving an indication from the user providing the speech utterance through the surface. For example as the user speaks the speech utterance Bob get Jim the financial statements from last quarter the speaker may use a gesture to select Bob on the surface.

In the method of rendering by the surface computer the display text on at least one of the allocated portions of the surface includes rendering the display text in the portion of the surface allocated to the particular user to which the speech utterance is directed. The surface computer may render the display text in the portion of the surface allocated to the particular user to which the speech utterance is directed according to the method of by displaying the display text on that user s allocated surface portion such that the top of the display text is oriented toward the center of the surface.

Readers will note that displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention as described above advantageously allows for seamless depiction of the speech among users of a surface computer. Displaying speech for a user of a surface computer according to embodiments of the present invention as described above incorporates the spatial relationship of users around the surface computer and has the ability to track the speech of users as they verbally interact around the surface computer in multiple contexts.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described largely in the context of a fully functional computer system for displaying speech for a user of a surface computer. Readers of skill in the art will recognize however that the present invention also may be embodied in a computer program product disposed on a computer readable media for use with any suitable data processing system. Such computer readable media may be transmission media or recordable media for machine readable information including magnetic media optical media or other suitable media. Examples of recordable media include magnetic disks in hard drives or diskettes compact disks for optical drives magnetic tape and others as will occur to those of skill in the art. Examples of transmission media include telephone networks for voice communications and digital data communications networks such as for example Ethernets and networks that communicate with the Internet Protocol and the World Wide Web as well as wireless transmission media such as for example networks implemented according to the IEEE 802.11 family of specifications. Persons skilled in the art will immediately recognize that any computer system having suitable programming means will be capable of executing the steps of the method of the invention as embodied in a program product. Persons skilled in the art will recognize immediately that although some of the exemplary embodiments described in this specification are oriented to software installed and executing on computer hardware nevertheless alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that modifications and changes may be made in various embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. The descriptions in this specification are for purposes of illustration only and are not to be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of the present invention is limited only by the language of the following claims.

