---

title: Method and system for validating references
abstract: The present invention relates to enhanced workflow solutions for authors (e.g., researchers, scientists, and scholarly authors) and publishers (e.g., journals and professional and technical societies) in preparing documents in structured format for facilitating efficient and accurate validation of references cited or included in papers and other submissions for publication or for review. An author prepares a document containing a set of cited references using a formatting structure. A system includes a processor to process the document to extract embedded metadata associated with the set of cited references. The processor executes code associated with a reference validation software module and automatically recognizes the formatting structure and the embedded metadata. The processor automatically extracts the embedded metadata and compares the extracted metadata against an authority database to determine the validity of the set of cited references.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08201085&OS=08201085&RS=08201085
owner: Thomson Reuters Global Resources
number: 08201085
owner_city: Baar
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20070621
---
The field of the invention relates generally to information science and infometrics or informetrics and more particularly to the fields of bibliometrics and scientometrics and validating reference information included in works of authorship.

With the advents of the printing press typeset typewriting machines and computer implemented word processing and storage the amount of information generated by mankind has risen dramatically and with an ever quickening pace. As a result there is a continuing and growing need to accurately collect and store identify track classify and catalogue for retrieval and distribution this growing sea of information.

In the area of scholarly and scientific research and writing a sophisticated process and convention for documenting research supporting materials and organizing fields of study has emerged called bibliographic citation. Such scientific writings include among other things books articles published in journals magazines or other periodicals manuscripts and papers presented submitted and published by society industry and professional organizations such as in proceedings and transactions publications. To facilitate the widespread distribution of information published in scholarly writings to more efficiently and effectively move bodies of study forward scholars and scientists use bibliographic citation to recognize the prior work of others or even themselves on which advancements set forth in their writings are based. Citations or cited references as included in any particular work or body of work is used herein to refer broadly to cited references bibliographic or other reference data that collectively form in text citations footnotes endnotes and bibliographies and are used to identify sources of information relied on or considered by the author and to give the reader a way to confirm accuracy of the content and direction for further study. A bibliography may refer to either of a complete or selective list or compilation of writings specific to an author publisher or given subject or it may refer to a list or compilation of writings relied on or considered by an author in preparing a particular work such as a paper article book or other informational object.

Citations briefly describe and identify each cited writing as a source of information or reference to an authority. Citations and bibliographies follow particular formatting conventions to enhance consistency in interpreting the information. Each citation typically includes the following information full title author name s publication data including publisher identity volume edition and other data and date and location of publication. Given the formatting requirements and numerous fields associated with each citation and given that there are tens and in some cases hundreds of citations in a given paper the likelihood of misspellings and typographical errors presents a substantial problem in the publishing and research processes. Perhaps other than the title associated with a given paper most of the fields are inherently ambiguous. For example even the volume page and date fields or data for a given reference is not particularly helpful in the event of an error. As opposed to the title information where one letter missing or misspelled in one word from a string of words still leaves usable information a missing or erroneous date or volume character makes the rest of the data largely useless or at least unreliable. Also author names are most usually in an abbreviated form such as an initial rather than full first or middle names e.g. J. Smith or suffer naturally from commonality with other authors such as having either a common first or last name or both e.g. John Smith. This results in a latent ambiguity as to the actual identity of the author. There have been many attempts to disambiguate author and other citation information. A system and method for disambiguating information is disclosed in U.S. Ser. No. 11 799 768 filed May 2 2007 entitled Method and System for Disambiguating Information Objects which is owned by the assignee of the present application and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In support of the pursuits of science and research databases database management tools citation management and analysis tools research authoring tools and other powerful tools and resources have been used and developed for the beneficial use of scholars researchers and scientists. These tools and resources may be available to users in an online environment over the Internet or some other computer network and may be in the form of a client server architecture central and or local database application service provider ASP or other environment for effectively communicating and accessing electronic databases and software tools. Examples of such tools and resources are Thomson Scientific s Web of Science WoS Web of Knowledge WoK and ResearchSoft suite of publishing solutions including EndNote EndNoteWeb ProCite Reference Manager and RefViz as well as solutions such as Scholar One s Manuscript Central . A longstanding problem in the publication process has been accurately entering citation information in papers during creation and the time consuming and tedious process of manually verifying the accuracy of the citation prior to publication. Small but critical errors such as incomplete information and incorrect information e.g. misspellings and typographical errors cause the author and publisher to lose credibility and cause the reader to waste effort searching for the referenced material incorrectly cited in the document.

Techniques used to help build out databases and confirm database information include extraction and sorting such as parsing of data from sentence or word structures performed on electronic documents to extract information from papers and citations for further processing.

 Writings manuscripts and papers as used herein shall refer to both hard documents and soft electronic documents and shall be used interchangeably and given the broadest collective meaning. Such works of authorship are now widely created edited maintained archived catalogued and researched in whole or in part electronically. The Internet and other networks and intranets facilitate electronic distribution of and access to such information. The advent of databases database management systems and search languages and in particular relational databases e.g. DB2 and others developed by IBM Oracle Sybase Microsoft and others has provided powerful research and development tools and environments in which to further advance all areas of science and the study of science. There are companies and institutions that have created electronic databases and associated services such as WoS and WoK that are specifically designed to help organize and harness the vast array of knowledge.

Thousands of papers and manuscripts are submitted to reviewers and publishers daily by authors and many of the submissions include malformed references. To catch and correct these errors the current path to publication usually includes a manual reference validation step consisting of checks for style and content accuracy. The validation task may be performed by a variety of roles most commonly by a copy editor or a production editor but also possibly by a typesetter. With papers and manuscripts commonly containing dozens or hundreds of cited references the validation process is tedious and time consuming and adds significant costs to the publication process having been estimated to account for up to 60 of a publisher s correction and formatting effort.

Recent developments have provided a significant opportunity to develop reference validation tools within the context of manuscript creation submission approval proofing and production processes. Many reference databases which may be referred to herein as authority databases have become available via web service connections. It is now possible to efficiently pull or extract reference lists from a manuscript or electronic document into XML. Also processes used in the paper creation and submission process may be extended into the production stage of the publishing process to provide a complimentary coordinated and efficient overall process.

Robust and accurate reference mark up and validation tools are needed to effectively reduce the cost and burden associated with validating references prior to publication.

Existing effort and systems directed to validation XML scholarly meta data etc. include the following. XML validation which presently applies to the validation of the XML tags and schema in a document and not to validating the associated data. Scholarly meta data and linking refers to for example the creation of a Digital Object Identifier DOI or unique digital identifier for a specific scholarly work for example a URL. DOI may be used to identify content objects in a digital environment. Entities operating over digital networks are assigned DOI names and have associated with them current information including address information. Name information does not change but other information e.g. address may change over time. A DOI system provides a framework for managing the following identification content metadata links and media.

The present invention provides enhanced workflow solutions for authors e.g. researchers scientists and scholarly authors and publishers e.g. journals and professional and technical societies in validating references cited or included in papers and other submissions for publication or for review. The invention accelerates the time to publish or market papers journals meeting abstracts and conference proceedings and delivers significant productivity gains in the process. The invention enables users to access research and other productivity solutions remotely such as via the Internet across the world. The invention provides value added information with software tools and applications that help users become better informed and make better decisions and do both more efficiently. Although the invention may be described herein in the context of scientific research the invention is also applicable in other applications and environments including assisting users in the fields of law tax accounting higher education reference information corporate e learning and assessment financial services and healthcare.

In one embodiment the present invention provides an integrated or integrate able system of research and authoring productivity software for use in conjunction with databases of interest e.g. WoS WoK CrossRef and PubMed. By way of example Thomson Scientific applications EndNote EndNote Web ProCite Reference Manager RefViz Abstract Central Proceedings Central and Manuscript Central are commercially available systems that may be used to provide a comprehensive solution to create write publish submit and manage bibliographies papers publications and other scholarly pursuits. Many of the functions included in this system of solutions may be automated. The invention may be used with one or more or a combination of such solutions. Manuscript Central provides a web based database driven peer review and online submission solution for scholarly publishers. Manuscript Central automates manuscript submission to journals and allows for easy administrative editing and reviewing capabilities.

EndNote ProCite and Reference Manager are desktop applications but may also be browser based applications used to publish and manage bibliographies. With these products users e.g. students writing papers professionals publishing research can for example do the following search Internet databases to build personal reference libraries import references from online and CD ROM databases and library catalogs format bibliographies automatically for hundreds of scholarly publications use Cite While You Write feature with Microsoft Word to create bibliographies instantly as references are cited. EndNote Web is a Web based tool for managing and citing references in papers and creating bibliographies. Integrated seamlessly with EndNote desktop and the ISI Web of Knowledge research platform EndNote Web provides an online collaborative environment for existing EndNote users and an entree for undergraduate students requiring a basic bibliographic solution. RefViZ provides a text analysis and visualization tool and works seamlessly with EndNote ProCite and Reference Manager to provide a powerful way to explore reference libraries visually for major themes and topics. RefViz allows users to quickly evaluate vast amounts of references accelerating the research process.

In one embodiment the invention automatically validates references cited. As used to describe the invention validating a reference does not merely mean to check citation format but rather means to validate that the cited reference actually exists and was published as cited. The difference is that a reference may be in appropriate format but yet may not relate to an existing publication. The goal of the invention is to confirm the accuracy of the submitted data. It is important to confirm that references identified in submitted papers exist so that readers can use the cited references to obtain copies of the referenced material to verify that the reference stands for the proposition as represented in the citing paper and to use the reference to facilitate further research. The validation process of the invention is to confirm that the cited reference actually exists. Validation means to confirm that the title author citation and other data appearing in the cited reference is accurate and not merely that it is in proper format. In this manner simple errors wholly incorrect cites and fraudulent representations may be discovered and acted upon.

After running the validation process on a submitted paper or extracted reference list the system can respond to the user or other concern involved in the process e.g. peer review board in any of a number of ways. For example the system can give an indication of verification identify which references have or have not been validated delineate the data or fields in the cited reference or document that appear to be incorrect and suggest closely matching reference data as a substitute for the erroneous data. The system can also include hyperlinks for example associated with the cited references to directly link the results page with the actual confirmed reference or a suggested reference. The invention is not limited to validating authors citations dates etc. and can be used to validate any feature appearing in a cited reference or even a paper for which there is a corresponding authority database against which the data may be compared. For example if an author claims to be a Fellow or Member of a society e.g. IEEE or a member of the faculty of a school or in a chaired position for example then as long as the system has access to an authority database of membership data for that society or faculty the information from the paper or other document may be extracted marked up or otherwise and may be compared against the database and the data validated. In addition these processes may be used to validate that the paper has not previously been published. As part of the process a user can select from a list of databases against which the validation process is to be performed or the system may default to a predefined set of one or more databases. Exemplary databases for use with the present invention include public reference databases e.g. CrossRef and PubMed commercial databases e.g. Web of Science WoS Web of Knowledge WoK and BIOSYS and privately held specialized databases.

In one embodiment the invention provides a computer based method for preparing a document for publication. The method includes receiving an electronic document previously prepared by an author using a formatting structure the electronic document including a set of cited references and having metadata associated with the set of cited references embedded in accordance with the formatting structure. The method further includes executing on the electronic document a reference validation process adapted to recognize the formatting structure and the embedded metadata and further adapted to extract the embedded metadata and compare the extracted metadata against a set of at least one authority database to determine the validity of the set of cited references. In addition this embodiment of the invention may include generating an output comprising data representing the validity determination. The output may further include data representing an option to revise invalid cited reference data and may involve presenting the output to one or both of the author and a publisher for revising at least one invalid cited reference datum and generating a revised set of data. The method may further include executing on the revised set of data the reference validation process for further validation.

In this embodiment the output may comprise data respecting one or both of at least one valid cited reference and at least one invalid cited reference and comprise at least one of the following error data suggested correction data and data related to confirmed citations that match closely with data from the set of cited references. The electronic document may be received by a publisher who causes the reference validation process to be executed on the electronic document prior to publication of the electronic document. The method may further comprise parsing data from the set of cited references and comparing the parsed data with data from the set of at least one authority database to determine the validity of the parsed data. In the method the set of at least one authority database may include at least one of the following databases ISI Web of Science ISI Web of Knowledge National Library of Medicine PubMed CrossRef BIOSIS Dialog library OPACS Medline ProQuest Ovid Ebsco and WilsonWeb. Also the electronic document may be received from an author and the method performed to validate the set of cited references contained in the electronic document prior to submission of the electronic document to a publishing entity. The method may further comprise creating the electronic document according to the formatting structure including inserting the embedded metadata in the electronic document. In this method the electronic document may include formatted data elements associated with citation information associated with the set of cited references the method may further comprise parsing the formatted data elements based on the formatting structure to yield parsed data and comparing the parsed data with data from the set of at least one authority database to determine the validity of the parsed data. In this method the formatting structure may be a markup process based on one of XML GML and SGML. The method may further involve establishing a communication link with the set of at least one authority database over at least one computer network. In this method the set of cited references may comprise one or more of citation data author data publication source data address data volume data ISSN volume issue page DOI URL and date of publication data. The method may further comprise determining a set of at least one invalid data from the set of cited references revising at least a portion of the set of at least one invalid data to form a set of revised data and automatically comparing the set of revised data against the set of at least one authority database to determine the validity of the set of revised data. The method may further comprise determining a set of at least one invalid data from the set of cited references presenting a user with the set of at least one invalid data receiving from the user a set of revised data and automatically comparing the set of revised data against the set of at least one authority database to determine the validity of the set of revised data.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a System for preparing electronic documents for publication. The system includes a processor adapted to process at least one electronic document containing a set of at least one cited reference the electronic document being previously prepared by an author using a formatting structure and having metadata associated with the set of at least one cited reference embedded in accordance with the formatting structure and a reference validation software module comprising code executed by the processor and adapted to automatically recognize the formatting structure and the embedded metadata and further adapted to automatically extract the embedded metadata and compare the extracted metadata against a set of at least one authority database to determine the validity of the set of at least one cited reference. In the system the set of at least one authority database may include at least one of the following databases ISI Web of Science ISI Web of Knowledge National Library of Medicine PubMed CrossRef BIOSIS Dialog library OPACS Medline ProQuest Ovid Ebsco WilsonWeb and a journal configured external database. In the system the reference validation software module may be further adapted to determine the presence of a set of at least one invalid data from the set of at least one cited reference process a set of revised data and automatically compare the set of revised data against the set of at least one authority database to determine the validity of the set of revised data. In the system the set of at least one invalid data may be presented to a user who may revise at least a portion of the set of at least one invalid data to form the set of revised data. In the system the formatting structure is based on one of XML GML and SGML.

The system may further comprise an output software module comprising code executing on the processor and adapted to automatically generate an output respecting the validity of the set of at least one cited reference. In the system the output may comprise data respecting one or both of at least one valid cited reference and at least one invalid cited reference. In the system the output may include data representing one or both of a match or a failure to match between the set of at least one cited reference and the valid reference data. In the system the reference validation software module may further comprise code executed by the processor and adapted to automatically determine a similarity between each of the set of at least one cited reference and the valid reference data and wherein the output includes data respecting at least one possible match between the set of at least one cited reference and the valid reference data. In the system the output may indicate those of the set of at least one cited reference having one or more possible matches with the valid reference data and presents the possible matches for selection by a user. In the system the output may be presented to a user for action and the user provides at least one response respecting validation of the set of at least one cited reference. In the system the at least one user response may include at least one of a verification a repudiation or selection respecting the at least one possible match.

The system may further comprise an author computer adapted to structure the electronic document according to the formatting structure and a central computer comprising the processor and being adapted to receive the electronic document. In the system the central computer may further comprise a parser adapted to parse data contained in the electronic document associated with the set of at least one cited reference to yield parsed cited reference data and wherein the reference validation software module uses the parsed cited reference data to compare the set of at least one cited reference against the set of at least one authority database. In the system at least one of the author computer and the central computer may be adapted to process the electronic document using a structured format language. In the system the reference validation software module may be adapted to extract the metadata into XML. In the system the set of at least one authority database may include at least one journal configured external database. In the system the reference validation software module may be further adapted to present to a user data related to the validity determination and to receive from the user verification data associated with the set of at least one cited reference. In the system the data related to the validity determination may include data representing authenticated references contained in the set of at least one authority database and having high similarity with at least a portion of the set of at least one cited reference. In the system the verification data may be used to revise the electronic document.

The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present invention is described herein with reference to the exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to such exemplary embodiments. Those possessing ordinary skill in the art and having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other applications for use of the invention which are fully contemplated herein as within the scope of the present invention as disclosed and claimed herein and with respect to which the present invention could be of significant utility.

As described herein the term item and the terms writing manuscript paper and article shall be understood to refer to hard and soft documents papers writings and other publications and are all meant to each inherently refer to the other terms as the invention is intended to cover all sorts of publications papers writings articles letters editorials books chapters or other kinds of published papers or documents. Part of the information captured for instance in extracting information from an item is the item s bibliography of cited references. Items in such bibliographies may be referred to as reference items . Some reference items may be items captured as a source item but not necessarily.

With reference to an authoring submission and validation system includes a word processing application e.g. EndNote using EndNote XML reference mark up for preparing structured formatted documents. The software application is used to format the Microsoft Word document by identifying and tagging data contained in the document prior to submission to a publisher. For instance documents may be marked or tagged using by way of example only and not limitation processes based on GML SGML or XML. By marking or tagging the document to create a structured document e.g. using GML SGML or XML based mark up the cited references may be more easily extracted from the document and included in a reference list for validation. SGML Standard Generalized Markup Language is a generic markup language used to represent documents in content and structure. SGML identifies document elements such as titles paragraphs tables and chapters as distinct objects and allows users to define relationships defined in a Document Type Definition DTD between objects for structuring data in documents. SGML may be compared with SQL standard language for creating updating and querying relational database management systems in that SGML document elements and structure are analogous to a collection of field definitions in a database. SGML enables users to structure information in documents in an open fashion to permit access and reuse by any SGML aware application across multiple platforms. Once converted into SGML the document has tagged information and becomes a database like document that may be searched printed and processed by SGML aware applications in an open fashion. Extensible Markup Language XML a simplified dialect of SGML is a markup language for representing documents and is suitable for use on the World Wide Web WWW . XML provides a relationship between a document s content and embedded structure and a way to share document based information across applications and platforms. Structured information may have multiple components e.g. words and pictures and include indications as to what the content represents e.g. title section heading footnote endnote reference caption and database table .

In keeping with the invention a structured document may be formatted according to specific bibliographic style using application functions. For instance the EndNote Tool Bar may be invoked to call up APIs application programming interfaces of MS Word hidden code fields. The structured Word document may be loaded or uploaded into a work flow system e.g. Manuscript Central that is in communication with a database . The system includes software for recognizing the structured document as being formatted in a particular way e.g. EndNote then it may pull or extract the references contained in the document using means for parsing the data using a reference XML e.g. EndNote XML reference. For example the cited references may be parsed from the document and included in a reference list for validation. System preferably is capable of recognizing multiple formats and extracting references structured in a variety of formats. For those documents that are not structured prior to the validation process a manual operation or software aided operation may be applied to a document to identify and extract cited references or portions of text. Once the reference data is extracted or otherwise placed in a condition for comparison One or more database links are established to compare the extracted reference data against valid reference data contained in the one or more external database e.g. WoS. Database serves as an authority database containing verified and reliable reference data. Rather than establishing a link to an external authority database a reliable database may be present local to the work flow system e.g. database .

The system may apply an automated process to parse out data to be validated from documents that are structured and that have metadata tags that identify the cited references. In the extraction process the parser preferably recognizes or has access to the one or more formatting syntax e.g. EndNote reference XML used to code or format the document by the application and is capable of identifying those fields in the document that are associated with a cited reference or other field of interest. The system may include parsing options to select a parser or a parser set up appropriate for the source of the document or the source of the formatting. Also journals or other publishers may require submitting authors to submit papers pre formatted using a particular reference management mark up strategy.

Now with reference to the validation process generally referenced as may be carried out prior to submission by author validation and or it may be carried out after submission by publisher editor validation . In the author validation process initial review and validation is carried out by the author prior to manuscript submission . Author validation may be followed by secondary review and validation by a production editor or other actor associated with the publisher post submission. In the Editor validation process the submitted document is reviewed and validated by a production or copy editor. Ideally journals and other publishers would prefer authors to perform the initial validation as essentially validating the manuscript s cited references prior to submission. However cost and difficulty associated with parsing cited references into XML at the submission stage may deter authors from taking on this added burden. In addition a publisher may desire to retain the practice of using a typesetter to markup references. However as more effective author tools become widely available and used and as the creation submission and validation processes become more integrated and or open the many benefits automated validation has to offer are likely to outweigh and supplant prior practices.

Referring to the following major components comprise the author validation system . A reference management module or service e.g. EndNote may be used to produce a structured document with tagged references prior to submission . Alternatively third party XML production software and services may be used to automate the markup process. Extraction based on the XML production software used and the tagging format occurs pre submission to allow author validation. At article submission block the document structured or not may be handled in either of two ways. The document may be passed directly on for peer review and decision at block and then submitted to a publisher at Production block without pre submission author validation. Alternatively for self validation by the author the document may be processed by XML data extraction block . The cited reference data may be extracted using a number of different methods including EndNote reference XML for a document formatted using the EndNote process. Also a software module may process the document to identify references and extract them into XML. In one manner the extracted reference data is compiled into a reference list. Reference lists may be held in detailed and standardized XML. Getting the reference list into XML may be dependent upon the markup language used to produce the structured document. Tables 1 and 2 below depict an excerpt from a document marked up using EndNote Reference XML. Table 1 shows the excerpted text without the mark ups and Table 2 shows the same excerpted text with mark ups.

Preferably the XML extraction block is configured to recognize and process documents marked up in multiple formats and to accommodate documents from a variety of reference management software or XML production software. In this manner the system facilitates a range of client needs and does not require the client to abandon elements of their workflow. The extracted reference data output from block is compared against an authority database at Reference Search on Database block which may involve online access to one or more authority databases and then the validation results of the comparison are presented to the author user via Author reference validation block . The author user may then take action based on the results including submitting the paper with the results to the publisher. One goal is to have the validation process recognized within the publishing industry so that a favorable validation report would amount to a seal of approval widely accepted by publishers such that a high level of reliance is placed on the results and additional manual or automated validation is not required by the publisher.

The validation results may include confirmation of correct references validated as having actual papers corresponding to the cited reference data. The system can give an indication of verification identify which references have or have not been validated delineate the data or fields in the cited reference or document that appear to be incorrect and suggest closely matching reference data as a substitute or correction for the erroneous data. The system can also include hyperlinks for example associated with the cited references to directly link the results page with the actual confirmed reference or a suggested reference. The system can also give authors the ability to revise edit or correct cited reference data and resubmit for further validation. The invention is not limited to validating authors citations dates etc. and can be used to validate any feature appearing in a cited reference or even a paper for which there is a corresponding authority database against which the data may be compared. For example if an author claims to be a Fellow or Member of a society e.g. IEEE or a member of the faculty of a school or in a chaired position for example then as long as the system has access to an authority database of membership data for that society or faculty the information from the paper or other document may be extracted marked up or otherwise and may be compared against the database and the data validated. In addition these processes may be used to validate that the paper has not previously been published. As part of the process a user can select from a list of databases against which the validation process is to be performed or the system may default to a predefined set of one or more databases. Exemplary databases for use with the present invention include public reference databases e.g. CrossRef and National Library of Medicine NLM PubMed commercial databases e.g. ISI Web of Science WoS ISI Web of Knowledge WoK and BIOSIS and privately held specialized and other databases including Dialog library Online Public Access Catalogues OPACs Medline ProQuest Ovid Ebsco and WilsonWeb and similar reference databases.

In the event a document is not author self validated and is merely passed on to the publisher for Editor Validation via Production block then the publisher may validate the cited references contained in the submitted document. XML data extraction block works essentially the same as corresponding block previously described in the author validation process . In addition to the EndNote reference management software and third party software previously discussed publishers often use typesetters to extract reference data. This option is reflected in block . The extracted reference data from block is compared against an authority database at Reference Search on Database block as previously described for block and then the validation results of the comparison are presented to the editor user via Editor reference validation block . Alternatively the paper may be submitted along with a list of references or the list may be submitted apart from the paper and the list may be processed for validation. In addition to the description of the comparison results and actions above the publisher editor may send some or all of the results back to the author or to another for follow up e.g. correction or further verification.

Preferably reference databases used for validation are local or available via the Internet or other communications network to allow the Author Validation and Editor Validation processes to search on them. Traffic requirements are likely to be significant as for example using an average 60 80 references per article times 1 800 articles per day yields on the order of 100 000 to 150 000 requests per day. User interfaces UI support the validation task of reviewing reference matches and indicating which matches are correct and which are not. Two exemplary versions of UIs are author UI and editor UI. As part of the author pre submission process reference management process or author validation process or as part of the editor validation process metadata tagging or links e.g. DOIs digital object identifiers or URLs may be inserted or validated to provide or confirm cross publisher database linking imbedded in the final paper or bibliography. Other elements associated with the validation process include search logic for reference retrieval from database.

Now with reference to another depiction of a submission and validation process is shown in which block represents a pre publication raw reference list that is input to and processed at block wherein the references are extracted to XML. After the reference list is extracted into XML the references are compared at block against one or more authority databases e.g. WoS WoK PubMed OPACs and CrossRef. Next the results of the reference comparison are presented for further validation as represented at block . After the final validation by the author editor the validated references or list of references in XML are included in the article manuscript metadata at block . At this point the document is ready for submission to a publisher if author validated or ready for publishing if editor validated .

With respect to block the references or reference list may be extracted to XML consistent with one or more reference management module structured format or service utilized. For instance a paper and reference list prepared using EndNote would rely on an EndNote data extraction . Alternatively third party XML production software and services may be used for XML tagging . As relates to the publisher perspective a third party typesetter may be used to convert the cited reference data to XML structured format as represented at block .

The extracted reference data from block is compared against one or more authority database at Reference Search on Database block . The reference databases used for validation may be local or available via the Internet or other communications network and as described elsewhere herein. Exemplary databases for use with the present invention include public reference databases e.g. CrossRef and PubMed commercial reference databases e.g. Web of Science WoS Web of Knowledge WoK and BIOSYS and privately held specialized reference databases . Other exemplary databases include Medline ProQuest Ovid Ebsco and WilsonWeb.

With respect to Reference Validation block the validation results of the comparison block are presented to the author editor user for examination and or for taking action based on the results. User interfaces as described above and generally known may be used as part of Author validation tool and or Editor validation tool . Author action may include submitting the paper with the results to the publisher. Editor action may include approving the paper for publication or returning the results to the author for correction or explanation. Action may also include confirmation of correct references validated as having actual published papers corresponding to the cited reference data.

After reference validation the validated references or list of references in XML may be included in the article manuscript metadata at block . With respect to author validation the article manuscript with tagged XML references may be submitted to a publisher for acceptance or further validation such as for quality assurance by the publisher. With respect to editor publisher validation the article with tagged references is ready for approval and publishing at least with respect to having a validated set of references cited in the paper.

With reference to a dual path flow chart is provided that illustrates one exemplary embodiment of a reference validation process using the present invention. As shown reference validation process may be initiated by an author at who may upload a manuscript structured for example using EndNote to a central service for example Manuscript Central for reference validation prior to submission to a publisher. Alternatively a publisher may initiate the process at post submission and in the production phase prior to publication. Other than the initial steps of and which is directed to the source of the paper and the entity performing the reference validation the remaining steps are essentially the same for both paths. Depending on whether an author has conducted an initial validation process or submits the paper or reference list in a recognized structured form e.g. EndNote or in an extracted condition some of the steps may not be necessary for the editor.

At step references are or a reference list is extracted from the document into XML preferably based on a known and recognized format structure. At step each extracted reference is validated against a set of one or more external databases such as journal configured database. At step validation results are presented to authors and or editors and may include references which have high similarity matches step and references having multiple or low similarity matches at step presented for confirmation by the author or editor. At step results of author verification selection are passed back into the XML reference set.

With reference to one exemplary embodiment of a Content Management System CMS referenced generally with reference number includes a Distinct Author Identification System DAIS also referred to as an Author Disambiguation System a source of information e.g. databases and software and processor driven user productivity suite a plurality of remote users or clients and various communications links. CMS enables users to search for identify and access items such as papers and other publications by certain attributes associated with those items. For instance a typical user search is based on author name often and only includes author last name and perhaps first and middle initials. This abbreviated and non unique author information does not uniquely identify the author from the universe of author names contained in the source or database. The purpose of DAIS is to disambiguate records stored in source to among other things identify distinct authors assign author identifiers ids to them and tag their authorships with their author ids to facilitate such searching by users .

In this exemplary embodiment of the sources available for searching include the WoS Database the WoK Database and a general reference to other databases of interest such as OPAC CrossRef and PubMed databases and others mentioned herein for example. The DAIS communicates with stores via a communications link and captures and uses for disambiguation processes instances of all or portions of such databases. The DAIS applies the DAIS rules and processes referenced generally by reference number against the records stored in such databases to arrive at accurate relational links and clusters of links to properly associate with author entities.

For purposes of explaining the overall process and not by way of limitation to the invention the WoS DB for example is an XML database that spans a range of years of data including scientific papers and citations associated therewith. The WoS DB instance used by DAIS is separate from the WoS DB which may be used by WoS customers and which is kept for independent and unaltered research testing or various special processing. There are two principal unit records in this database. They are source item and reference item .

Once the DAIS has applied its processes against and across the database instances from sources it may load onto such databases and the disambiguated records and data as a way to improve the integrity of the information stored in such databases and for subsequent use by users. For instance users such as remote users and others may invoke productivity solutions such as Thomson Scientific s ResearchSoft suite in carrying out the business of science and research and in authoring works associated with those efforts. These productivity tools may be desktop based network based or a combination thereof and may be involved in the process of creating a manuscript for publication. For example the user may use EndNote and other productivity tools to create a structured document using XML references which may be validated e.g. by comparing against sources . Also such productivity tools may be used by administrators such as faculty and university administration in conducting the business of the institutions for example in reviewing the work of faculty up for tenure and under review including checking the validity of cited references contained in papers authored by a faculty member under review. Researchers may keep a personal reference collection of works of their own of works relied on and referenced in their works and of works of interest in their particular fields of study.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. It is fully contemplated that other various embodiments of and modifications to the present invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the following appended claims. Further although the present invention has been described herein in the context of particular embodiments and implementations and applications and in particular environments those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present invention can be beneficially applied in any number of ways and environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present invention as disclosed herein.

