---

title: Nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds, compositions and methods of use
abstract: The invention provides compositions and kits comprising at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and, optionally, at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound and/or at least one therapeutic agent. The invention also provides methods for (a) treating ophthalmic disorders; (b) treating cerebrovascular disorders; (c) treating cardiovascular disorders; (d) treating benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH); (e) treating peptic ulcers; (e) treating sexual dysfunctions and (f) inducing abortions. The nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds comprise at least one heterocyclic nitric oxide donor group and/or at least one nitroxide group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08067414&OS=08067414&RS=08067414
owner: NiCox S.A.
number: 08067414
owner_city: Sophia Antipolis
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20070319
---
This application is a U.S. national phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2007 0006749 filed Mar. 19 2007 which claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Application No. 60 786 689 filed Mar. 29 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention describes compositions and kits comprising at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and optionally at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound and or at least one therapeutic agent. The invention also provides methods for a treating ophthalmic disorders b treating cerebrovascular disorders c treating cardiovascular disorders d treating benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH e treating peptic ulcers e treating sexual dysfunctions and f inducing abortions. The nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds comprise at least one heterocyclic nitric oxide donor group and or at least one nitroxide group.

Most drugs conventionally used to treat ophthalmic disorders have potentially serious side effects such as blurring of vision and other visual side effects which may lead either to decreased patient compliance or to the termination of therapy. Occasionally systemically administered drugs can also cause serious side effects such as nausea dyspepsia fatigue and metabolic acidosis which affect patient compliance and or necessitate the termination of treatment. Additionally some adrenergic antagonists have increasingly become associated with serious pulmonary side effects attributable to their effects on 2 receptors in pulmonary tissue. Hence there is a need in the art for compounds that have improved efficacy lower toxicity and or fewer side effects and that can be used at low dosages. The invention is directed to these as well as other important ends.

The invention provides novel nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds that are substituted with at least one heterocyclic nitric oxide donor group and or at least one nitroxide group and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The prostaglandin compound can be substituted with the heterocyclic nitric oxide donor group and or the nitroxide group through one or more sites such as oxygen hydroxyl condensation sulfur sulfhydryl condensation and or nitrogen via a bond or moiety that can be hydrolyzed. The heterocyclic nitric oxide donors are furoxans sydnonimines oxatriazole 5 ones and or oxatriazole 5 imines. The invention also provides compositions comprising the novel compounds described herein in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention is also based on the discovery that administering at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound i.e. heterocyclic nitric oxide donor group and or nitroxide group or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and optionally at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound improves the properties of the prostaglandin compound. Nitric oxide enhancing compounds include for example S nitrosothiols nitrites nitrates N oxo N nitrosamines furoxans sydnonimines SPM 3672 SPM 4757 SPM 5185 SPM 5186 and analogues thereof substrates of the various isozymes of nitric oxide synthase and nitroxides. Thus another embodiment of the invention provides compositions comprising at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound. The invention also provides for such compositions in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention provides compositions comprising at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and optionally at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound and or at least one therapeutic agent including but not limited to aldosterone antagonists adrenergic receptor agonists adrenergic receptor antagonists adrenergic agonists antidiabetic compounds antimicrobial compounds antihyperlipidemic drugs angiotensin II antagonists angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors antioxidants antithrombotic and vasodilator drugs adrenergic antagonists calcium channel blockers carbonic anhydrase inhibitors diuretics endothelin antagonists hydralazine compounds Hreceptor antagonists neutral endopeptidase inhibitors nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compounds NSAIDs phosphodiesterase inhibitors potassium channel blockers platelet reducing agents prostaglandins proton pump inhibitors renin inhibitors selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors steroids compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma and combinations of two or more thereof. The invention also provides for such compositions in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another embodiment of the invention provides compositions comprising at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and at least one therapeutic agent selected from the group consisting of an adrenergic receptor antagonist a adrenergic agonist an antimicrobial compound a adrenergic antagonist a calcium channel blocker a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compound NSAID a phosphodiesterase inhibitor a potassium channel blocker a prostaglandin a proton pump inhibitor a selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitor a steroid a compound used for the treatment of glaucoma and combinations of two or more thereof. The invention also provides for such compositions in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention provides methods for a treating ophthalmic disorders b treating cerebrovascular disorders c treating cardiovascular disorders d treating benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH e treating peptic ulcers e treating sexual dysfunctions and f inducing abortions in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and optionally at least one therapeutic agent such as for example aldosterone antagonists adrenergic receptor agonists adrenergic receptor antagonists adrenergic agonists antidiabetic compounds antimicrobial compounds anti hyperlipidemic drugs angiotensin II antagonists angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors antioxidants antithrombotic and vasodilator drugs adrenergic antagonists calcium channel blockers carbonic anhydrase inhibitors diuretics endothelin antagonists hydralazine compounds Hreceptor antagonists neutral endopeptidase inhibitors nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compounds NSAIDs phosphodiesterase inhibitors potassium channel blockers platelet reducing agents prostaglandins proton pump inhibitors renin inhibitors selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors steroids compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma and combinations of two or more thereof. The methods can optionally further comprises the administration of at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound. In this embodiment of the invention the methods can involve i administering the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds ii administering the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds and nitric oxide enhancing compounds iii administering the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds and therapeutic agents or iv administering the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds nitric oxide enhancing compounds and therapeutic agents. In one embodiment the at least one therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of an adrenergic receptor antagonist a adrenergic agonist an antimicrobial compound a adrenergic antagonist a calcium channel blocker a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compound NSAID a phosphodiesterase inhibitor a potassium channel blocker a prostaglandin a proton pump inhibitor a selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitor a steroid and a compound used for the treatment of glaucoma. In another embodiment the ophthalmic disorder is glaucoma elevated ocular pressure macular degeneration ophthalmic infection dry eye disorder ocular hypertension and diabetic retinopathy. The nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds nitric oxide enhancing compounds and or therapeutic agents can be administered separately or as components of the same composition in one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

Another embodiment of the invention provides kits comprising at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and optionally at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound. The kit can further comprise at least one therapeutic agent such as for example aldosterone antagonists adrenergic receptor agonists adrenergic receptor antagonists adrenergic agonists antidiabetic compounds antimicrobial compounds anti hyperlipidemic drugs angiotensin II antagonists angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors antioxidants antithrombotic and vasodilator drugs adrenergic antagonists calcium channel blockers carbonic anhydrase inhibitors diuretics endothelin antagonists hydralazine compounds Hreceptor antagonists neutral endopeptidase inhibitors nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compounds NSAIDs phosphodiesterase inhibitors potassium channel blockers platelet reducing agents prostaglandins proton pump inhibitors renin inhibitors selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors steroids compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma and combinations of two or more thereof. The nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound the nitric oxide enhancing compound and or therapeutic agent can be separate components in the kit or can be in the form of a composition in one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

As used throughout the disclosure the following terms unless otherwise indicated shall be understood to have the following meanings.

 Ophthalmic disorders include but are not limited to glaucoma elevated intraocular pressure ocular pain e.g. following corneal surgery cataracts ophthalmic infections dry eye disorder ocular hypertension ocular bleeding retinal diseases or disorders presbyopia macular degeneration choroidal neovascularization CNV retinopathies such as for example diabetic retinopathy vitreoretinopathy and the like retinitis such as for example cytomegalovirus CMV retinitis uveitis macular edema neuropathies and the like.

 Ophthalmic infections include but are not limited to an inflammation of the conjunctiva conjunctivitis inflammation of the cornea keratitis corneal ulcers and the like caused by an organisms such as for example Staphylococci Streptococci Enterococci and the like including important species of these genus such as for example staphylococci streptococci enterococci and the like.

 Sexual dysfunction refers to and includes male erectile dysfunction and female sexual dysfunction. Sexual dysfunction includes but is not limited to for example sexual pain disorders sexual desire disorders sexual arousal dysfunction orgasmic dysfunction dyspareunia vaginismus and the like.

 Therapeutic agent includes any therapeutic agent that can be used to treat or prevent the diseases described herein. Therapeutic agents include for example aldosterone antagonists adrenergic receptor agonists adrenergic receptor antagonists adrenergic agonists anti allergic compounds antidiabetic compounds antimicrobial compounds anti hyperlipidemic drugs antitussive compounds angiotensin II antagonists angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors antioxidants antithrombotic and vasodilator drugs adrenergic antagonists bronchodilators calcium channel blockers carbonic anhydrase inhibitors diuretics endothelin antagonists expectorants hydralazine compounds Hreceptor antagonists neutral endopeptidase inhibitors nonsteroidal antiinfiammatory compounds NSAIDs phosphodiesterase inhibitors potassium channel blockers platelet reducing agents prostaglandins proton pump inhibitors renin inhibitors selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors steroids compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma and the like. Therapeutic agent includes the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof pro drugs and pharmaceutical derivatives thereof including but not limited to the corresponding nitrosated and or nitrosylated and or heterocyclic nitric oxide donor derivatives and or nitroxide derivatives. Although nitric oxide donors have therapeutic activity the term therapeutic agent does not include the nitric oxide donors described herein since nitric oxide donors are separately defined.

 Angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitor refers to compounds that inhibit an enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II. ACE inhibitors include but are not limited to amino acids and derivatives thereof peptides including di and tri peptides and antibodies to ACE which intervene in the renin angiotensin system by inhibiting the activity of ACE thereby reducing or eliminating the formation of the pressor substance angiotensin II.

 Angiotensin. II antagonists refers to compounds which interfere with the function synthesis or catabolism of angiotensin II. Angiotensin II antagonists include peptide compounds and non peptide compounds including but not limited to angiotensin II antagonists angiotensin II receptor antagonists agents that activate the catabolism of angiotensin II and agents that prevent the synthesis of angiotensin I from angiotensin II. The renin angiotensin system is involved in the regulation of hemodynamics and water and electrolyte balance. Factors that lower blood volume renal perfusion pressure or the concentration of sodium in plasma tend to activate the system while factors that increase these parameters tend to suppress its function.

 Anti hyperlipidemic compounds refers to any compound or agent that has the effect of beneficially modifying serum cholesterol levels such as for example lowering serum low density lipoprotein LDL cholesterol levels or inhibiting oxidation of LDL cholesterol whereas high density lipoprotein HDL serum cholesterol levels may be lowered remain the same or be increased. Preferably the anti hyperlipidemic compound brings the serum levels of LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol and more preferably triglyceride levels to normal or nearly normal levels.

 Diuretic compound refers to and includes any compound or agent that increases the amount of urine excreted by a patient.

 Neutral endopeptidase inhibitors refers to and includes compounds that are antagonists of the renin angiotensin aldosterone system including compounds that are dual inhibitors of neutral endopeptidases and angiotensin converting ACE enzymes.

 Phosphodiesterase inhibitor or PDE inhibitor refers to any compound that inhibits the enzyme phosphodiesterase. The term refers to selective or non selective inhibitors of cyclic guanosine 3 5 monophosphate phosphodiesterases cGMP PDE and cyclic adenosine 3 5 monophosphate phosphodiesterases cAMP PDE .

 Platelet reducing agents refers to compounds that prevent the formation of a blood thrombus via any number of potential mechanisms. Platelet reducing agents include but are not limited to fibrinolytic agents anti coagulant agents and any inhibitors of platelet function. Inhibitors of platelet function include agents that impair the ability of mature platelets to perform their normal physiological roles i.e. their normal function such as for example adhesion to cellular and non cellular entities aggregation release of factors such as growth factors and the like.

 Proton pump inhibitor refers to any compound that reversibly or irreversibly blocks gastric acid secretion by inhibiting the H K ATP ase enzyme system at the secretory surface of the gastric parietal cell.

 NSAID refers to a nonsteroidal anti inflammatory compound or a nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drug. NSAIDs inhibit cyclooxygenase the enzyme responsible for the biosyntheses of the prostaglandins and certain autocoid inhibitors including inhibitors of the various isozymes of cyclooxygenase including but not limited to cyclooxygenase 1 and 2 and as inhibitors of both cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase.

 Cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 selective inhibitor refers to a compound that selectively inhibits the cyclooxygenase 2 enzyme over the cyclooxygenase 1 enzyme. In one embodiment the compound has a cyclooxygenase 2 ICof less than about 2 M and a cyclooxygenase 1 ICof greater than about 5 M in the human whole blood COX 2 assay as described in Brideau et al. 45 68 74 1996 and also has a selectivity ratio of cyclooxygenase 2 inhibition over cyclooxygenase 1 inhibition of at least 10 and preferably of at least 40. In another embodiment the compound has a cyclooxygenase 1 ICof greater than about 1 M and preferably of greater than 20 M. The compound can also inhibit the enzyme lipoxygenase. Such selectivity may indicate an ability to reduce the incidence of common NSA D induced side effects.

 Patient refers to animals preferably mammals most preferably humans and includes males and females and children and adults.

 Transdermal refers to the delivery of a compound by passage through the skin and into the blood stream.

 Transmucosal refers to delivery of a compound by passage of the compound through the mucosal tissue and into the blood stream.

 Penetration enhancement or permeation enhancement refers to an increase in the permeability of the skin or mucosal tissue to a selected pharmacologically active compound such that the rate at which the compound permeates through the skin or mucosal tissue is increased.

 Carriers or vehicles refers to carrier materials suitable for compound administration and include any such material known in the art such as for example any liquid gel solvent liquid diluent solubilizer or the like which is non toxic and which does not interact with any components of the composition in a deleterious manner.

 Sustained release refers to the release of an active compound and or composition such that the blood levels of the active compound are maintained within a desirable therapeutic range over a period of time. The sustained release formulation can be prepared using any conventional method known to one skilled in the art to obtain the desired release characteristics.

 Nitric oxide enhancing refers to compounds and functional groups which under physiological conditions can increase endogenous nitric oxide. Nitric oxide enhancing compounds include but are not limited to nitric oxide releasing compounds nitric oxide donating compounds nitric oxide donors radical scavenging compounds and or reactive oxygen species scavenger compounds. In one embodiment the radical scavenging compound contains a nitroxide group.

 Nitroxide group refers to compounds that have the ability to mimic superoxide dimutase and catalase and act as radical scavengers or react with superoxide or other reactive oxygen species via a stable aminoxyl radical i.e. N oxide.

 Nitric oxide adduct or NO adduct refers to compounds and functional groups which under physiological conditions can donate release and or directly or indirectly transfer any of the three redox forms of nitrogen monoxide NO NO NO. such that the biological activity of the nitrogen monoxide species is expressed at the intended site of action.

 Nitric oxide releasing or nitric oxide donating refers to methods of donating releasing and or directly or indirectly transferring any of the three redox forms of nitrogen monoxide NO NO NO. such that the biological activity of the nitrogen monoxide species is expressed at the intended site of action.

 Nitric oxide donor or NO donor refers to compounds that donate release and or directly or indirectly transfer a nitrogen monoxide species and or stimulate the endogenous production of nitric oxide or endothelium derived relaxing factor EDRF in vivo and or elevate endogenous levels of nitric oxide or EDRF in vivo and or are oxidized to produce nitric oxide and or are substrates for nitric oxide synthase and or cytochrome P450. NO donor also includes compounds that are precursors of L arginine inhibitors of the enzyme arginase and nitric oxide mediators.

 Heterocyclic nitric oxide donor refers to a trisubstituted 5 membered ring comprising two or three nitrogen atoms and at least one oxygen atom. The heterocyclic nitric oxide donor is capable of donating and or releasing a nitrogen monoxide species upon decomposition of the heterocyclic ring. Exemplary heterocyclic nitric oxide donors include oxatriazol 5 ones oxatriazol 5 imines sydnonimines furoxans and the like.

 Alkyl refers to a lower alkyl group a substituted lower alkyl group a haloalkyl group a hydroxyalkyl group an alkenyl group a substituted alkenyl group an alkynyl group a bridged cycloalkyl group a cycloalkyl group or a heterocyclic ring as defined herein. An alkyl group may also comprise one or more radical species such as for example a cycloalkylalkyl group or a heterocyclicalkyl group.

 Lower alkyl refers to branched or straight chain acyclic alkyl group comprising one to about ten carbon atoms preferably one to about eight carbon atoms more preferably one to about six carbon atoms . Exemplary lower alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl t butyl pentyl neopentyl iso amyl hexyl octyl and the like.

 Substituted lower alkyl refers to a lower alkyl group as defined herein wherein one or more of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced with one or more Rgroups wherein each Ris independently a hydroxy an ester an amidyl an oxo a carboxyl a carboxamido a halo a cyano a nitrate a nitrite a thionitrate a thionitrite or an amino group as defined herein.

 Haloalkyl refers to a lower alkyl group an alkenyl group an alkynyl group a bridged cycloalkyl group a cycloalkyl group or a heterocyclic ring as defined herein to which is appended one or more halogens as defined herein. Exemplary haloalkyl groups include trifluoromethyl chloromethyl 2 bromobutyl 1 bromo 2 chloro pentyl and the like.

 Alkenyl refers to a branched or straight chain C Chydrocarbon preferably a C Chydrocarbon more preferably a C Chydrocarbon that can comprise one or more carbon carbon double bonds. Exemplary alkenyl groups include propylenyl buten 1 yl isobutenyl penten 1 yl 2 2 methylbuten 1 yl 3 methylbuten 1 yl hexan 1 yl hepten 1 yl octen 1 yl and the like.

 Lower alkenyl refers to a branched or straight chain C Chydrocarbon that can comprise one or two carbon carbon double bonds.

 Substituted alkenyl refers to a branched or straight chain C Chydrocarbon preferably a C Chydrocarbon more preferably a C Chydrocarbon which can comprise one or more carbon carbon double bonds wherein one or more of the hydrogen atoms have been replaced with one or more Rgroups wherein each Ris independently a hydroxy an oxo a carboxyl a carboxamido a halo a cyano or an amino group as defined herein.

 Alkynyl refers to an unsaturated acyclic C Chydrocarbon preferably a C Chydrocarbon more preferably a C Chydrocarbon that can comprise one or more carbon carbon triple bonds. Exemplary alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl butyn 1 yl butyn 2 yl pentyl 1 yl pentyl 2 yl 3 methylbutyn 1 yl hexyl 1 yl hexyl 2 yl hexyl 3 yl 3 3 dimethyl butyn 1 yl and the like.

 Bridged cycloalkyl refers to two or more cycloalkyl groups heterocyclic groups or a combination thereof fused via adjacent or non adjacent atoms. Bridged cycloalkyl groups can be substituted or substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from alkyl alkoxy amino alkylamino dialkylamino hydroxy halo carboxyl alkylcarboxylic acid aryl amidyl ester alkylcarboxylic ester carboxamido alkylcarboxamido oxo and nitro. Exemplary bridged cycloalkyl groups include adamantyl decahydronapthyl quinuclidyl 2 6 dioxabicyclo 3.3.0 octane 7 oxabicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl 8 azabicyclo 3 2 1 oct 2 enyl and the like.

 Cycloalkyl refers to a saturated or unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon comprising from about 3 to about 10 carbon atoms. Cycloalkyl groups can be unsubstituted or substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from alkyl alkoxy amino alkylamino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino alkylarylamino aryl amidyl ester hydroxy halo carboxyl alkylcarboxylic acid alkylcarboxylic ester carboxamido alkylcarboxamido oxo alkylsulfinyl and nitro. Exemplary cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cyclohexenyl cyclohepta 1 3 dienyl and the like.

 Heterocyclic ring or group refers to a saturated or unsaturated cyclic hydrocarbon group having about 2 to about 10 carbon atoms preferably about 4 to about 6 carbon atoms where 1 to about 4 carbon atoms are replaced by one or more nitrogen oxygen and or sulfur atoms. Sulfur may be in the thio sulfinyl or sulfonyl oxidation state. The heterocyclic ring or group can be fused to an aromatic hydrocarbon group. Heterocyclic groups can be unsubstituted or substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from alkyl alkoxy amino alkylthio aryloxy arylthio arylalkyl hydroxy oxo thial halo carboxyl carboxylic ester alkylcarboxylic acid alkylcarboxylic ester aryl arylcarboxylic acid arylcarboxylic ester amidyl ester alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl alkylsulfinyl carboxamido alkylcarboxamido arylcarboxamido sulfonic acid sulfonic ester sulfonamide nitrate and nitro. Exemplary heterocyclic groups include pyrrolyl furyl thienyl 3 pyrrolinyl 4 5 6 trihydro 2H pyranyl pyridinyl 1 4 dihydropyridinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl oxazolyl thiazolyl imidazolyl indolyl thiophenyl furanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrazolyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolindinyl oxazolindinyl 1 3 dioxolanyl imidazolinyl imidazolindinyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl isoxazolyl isothiazolyl 1 2 3 oxadiazolyl 1 2 3 triazolyl 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl piperidinyl 1 4 dioxanyl morpholinyl 1 4 dithianyl thiomorpholinyl pyrazinyl piperazinyl 1 3 5 triazinyl 1 3 5 trithianyl benzo b thiophenyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolinyl quinolinyl 2 6 dioxabicyclo 3.3.0 octane and the like.

 Heterocyclic compounds refer to mono and polycyclic compounds comprising at least one aryl or heterocyclic ring.

 Aryl refers to a monocyclic bicyclic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring system comprising one or two aromatic rings. Exemplary aryl groups include phenyl pyridyl napthyl quinoyl tetrahydronaphthyl furanyl indanyl indenyl indoyl and the like. Aryl groups including bicyclic aryl groups can be unsubstituted or substituted with one two or three substituents independently selected from alkyl alkoxy alkylthio amino alkylamino dialkylamino arylamino diarylamino alkylarylamino halo cyano allylsulfinyl hydroxy carboxyl carboxylic ester alkylcarboxylic acid alkylcarboxylic ester aryl arylcarboxylic acid arylcarboxylic ester alkylcarbonyl arylcarbonyl amidyl ester carboxamido alkylcarboxamido carbomyl sulfonic acid sulfonic ester sulfonamido and nitro. Exemplary substituted aryl groups include tetrafluorophenyl pentafluorophenyl sulfonamide alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl and the like.

 Cycloalkenyl refers to an unsaturated cyclic C Chydrocarbon preferably a C Chydrocarbon more preferably a C Chydrocarbon which can comprise one or more carbon carbon double bonds.

 Alkylaryl refers to an alkyl group as defined herein to which is appended an aryl group as defined herein. Exemplary alkylaryl groups include benzyl phenylethyl hydroxybenzyl fluorobenzyl fluorophenylethyl and the like.

 Arylalkyl refers to an aryl radical as defined herein attached to an alkyl radical as defined herein. Exemplary arylalkyl groups include benzyl phenylethyl 4 hydroxybenzyl 3 fluorobenzyl 2 fluorophenylethyl and the like.

 Arylalkenyl refers to an aryl radical as defined herein attached to an alkenyl radical as defined herein. Exemplary arylalkenyl groups include styryl propenylphenyl and the like.

 Cycloalkylalkyl refers to a cycloalkyl radical as defined herein attached to an alkyl radical as defined herein.

 Cycloalkylalkoxy refers to a cycloalkyl radical as defined herein attached to an alkoxy radical as defined herein.

 Cycloalkylalkylthio refers to a cycloalkyl radical as defined herein attached to an alkylthio radical as defined herein.

 Heterocyclicalkyl refers to a heterocyclic ring radical as defined herein attached to an alkyl radical as defined herein.

 Arylheterocyclic ring refers to a bi or tricyclic ring comprised of an aryl ring as defined herein appended via two adjacent carbon atoms of the aryl ring to a heterocyclic ring as defined herein. Exemplary arylheterocyclic rings include dihydroindole 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroquinoline and the like.

 Alkylheterocyclic ring refers to a heterocyclic ring radical as defined herein attached to an alkyl radical as defined herein. Exemplary alkylheterocyclic rings include 2 pyridylmethyl 1 methylpiperidin 2 one 3 methyl and the like.

 Alkoxy refers to RO wherein Ris an alkyl group as defined herein preferably a lower alkyl group or a haloalkyl group as defined herein . Exemplary alkoxy groups include methoxy ethoxy t butoxy cyclopentyloxy trifluoromethoxy and the like.

 Aryloxy refers to RO wherein Ris an aryl group as defined herein. Exemplary arylkoxy groups include napthyloxy quinolyloxy isoquinolizinyloxy and the like.

 Lower alkylthio refers to a lower alkyl group as defined herein appended to a thio group as defined herein.

 Arylalkoxy or alkoxyaryl refers to an alkoxy group as defined herein to which is appended an aryl group as defined herein. Exemplary arylalkoxy groups include benzyloxy phenylethoxy chlorophenylethoxy and the like.

 Arylalklythio refers to an alkylthio group as defined herein to which is appended an aryl group as defined herein. Exemplary arylalklythio groups include benzylthio phenylethylthio chlorophenylethylthio and the like.

 Arylalklythioalkyl refers to an arylalkylthio group as defined herein to which is appended an alkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary arylalklythioalkyl groups include benzylthiomethyl phenylethylthiomethyl chlorophenylethylthioethyl and the like.

 Alkylthioalkyl refers to an alkylthio group as defined herein to which is appended an alkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary alkylthioalkyl groups include allylthiomethyl ethylthiomethyl trifluoroethylthiomethyl and the like.

 Alkoxyalkyl refers to an alkoxy group as defined herein appended to an alkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary alkoxyalkyl groups include methoxymethyl methoxyethyl isopropoxymethyl and the like.

 Alkoxyhaloalkyl refers to an alkoxy group as defined herein appended to a haloalkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary alkoxyhaloalkyl groups include 4 methoxy 2 chlorobutyl and the like.

 Cycloalkoxy refers to RO wherein Ris a cycloalkyl group or a bridged cycloalkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary cycloalkoxy groups include cyclopropyloxy cyclopentyloxy cyclohexyloxy and the like.

 Cycloalkylthio refers to RS wherein Ris a cycloalkyl group or a bridged cycloalkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary cycloalkylthio groups include cyclopropylthio cyclopentylthio cyclohexylthio and the like.

 Haloalkoxy refers to an alkoxy group as defined herein in which one or more of the hydrogen atoms on the alkoxy group are substituted with halogens as defined herein. Exemplary haloalkoxy groups include 1 1 1 trichloroethoxy 2 bromobutoxy and the like.

 Oxime refers to N ORwherein Ris a hydrogen an alkyl group an aryl group an alkylsulfonyl group an arylsulfonyl group a carboxylic ester an alkylcarbonyl group an arylcarbonyl group a carboxamido group an alkoxyalkyl group or an alkoxyaryl group.

 Organic cation refers to a positively charged organic ion. Exemplary organic cations include alkyl substituted ammonium cations and the like.

 Inorganic cation refers to a positively charged metal ion. Exemplary inorganic cations include Group I metal cations such as for example sodium potassium magnesium calcium and the like.

 Hydroxyalkyl refers to a hydroxy group as defined herein appended to an alkyl group as defined herein.

 Nitro refers to the group NOand nitrosated refers to compounds that have been substituted therewith.

 Nitroso refers to the group NO and nitrosylated refers to compounds that have been substituted therewith.

 Imine refers to C N R wherein Ris a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein

 Amino refers to NH an alkylamino group a dialkylamino group an arylamino group a diarylamino group an alkylarylamino group or a heterocyclic ring as defined herein.

 Alkylamino refers to RNH wherein Ris an alkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary alkylamino groups include methylamino ethylamino butylamino cyclohexylamino and the like.

 Dialkylamino refers to RRN wherein Rand Rare each independently an alkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary dialkylamino groups include dimethylamino diethylamino methyl propargylamino and the like.

 Alkylarylamino or arylalkylamino refers to RRN wherein Ris an alkyl group as defined herein and Ris an aryl group as defined herein.

 Alkylarylalkylamino refers to RRN wherein Ris an alkyl group as defined herein and Ris an arylalkyl group as defined herein.

 Alkylcycloallcylamino refers to RRN wherein Ris an alkyl group as defined herein and Ris a cycloalkyl group as defined herein.

 Aminoalkyl refers to an amino group an alkylamino group a dialkylamino group an arylamino group a diarylamino group an alkylarylamino group or a heterocyclic ring as defined herein to which is appended an alkyl group as defined herein. Exemplary aminoalkyl groups include dimethylaminopropyl diphenylaminocyclopentyl methylaminomethyl and the like.

 Aminoaryl refers to an aryl group to which is appended an alkylamino group an arylamino group or an arylalkylamino group. Exemplary aminoaryl groups include anilino N methylanilino N benzylanilino and the like.

 Sulfonic acid refers to S O OR wherein Ris a hydrogen an organic cation or an inorganic cation as defined herein.

 Alkylsulfonic acid refers to a sulfonic acid group as defined herein appended to an alkyl group as defined herein.

 Arylsulfonic acid refers to a sulfonic acid group as defined herein appended to an aryl group as defined herein.

 Sulfonic ester refers to S O OR wherein Ris an alkyl group an aryl group or an aryl heterocyclic ring as defined herein.

 Sulfonamido refers to S O N R R wherein Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein or Rand Rwhen taken together are a heterocyclic ring a cycloalkyl group or a bridged cycloalkyl group as defined herein.

 Alkylsulfonamido refers to a sulfonamido group as defined herein appended to an alkyl group as defined herein.

 Arylsulfonamido refers to a sulfonamido group as defined herein appended to an aryl group as defined herein.

 Alkylthio refers to RS wherein Ris an alkyl group as defined herein preferably a lower alkyl group as defined herein .

 Arylalkylthio refers to an aryl group as defined herein appended to an alkylthio group as defined herein.

 Amidyl refers to RC O N R wherein Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein.

 Ester refers to RC O R wherein Ris a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein and Ris oxygen or sulfur.

 Carbamoyl refers to O C O N R R wherein Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein or Rand Rtaken together are a heterocyclic ring a cycloalkyl group or a bridged cycloalkyl group as defined herein.

 Carboxyl refers to C O OR wherein Ris a hydrogen an organic cation or an inorganic cation as defined herein.

 Arylallcylcarbonyl refers to R R C O wherein Ris an aryl group as defined herein and Ris an alkyl group as defined herein.

 Alkylarylcarbonyl refers to R R C O wherein Ris an aryl group as defined herein and Ris an alkyl group as defined herein.

 Carboxylic ester refers to C O OR wherein Ris an alkyl group an aryl group or an aryl heterocyclic ring as defined herein.

 Alkylcarboxylic acid and alkylcarboxyl refer to an alkyl group as defined herein appended to a carboxyl group as defined herein.

 Alkylcarboxylic ester refers to an alkyl group as defined herein appended to a carboxylic ester group as defined herein.

 Alkyl ester refers to an alkyl group as defined herein appended to an ester group as defined herein.

 Arylcarboxylic acid refers to an aryl group as defined herein appended to a carboxyl group as defined herein.

 Arylcarboxylic ester and arylcarboxyl refer to an aryl group as defined herein appended to a carboxylic ester group as defined herein.

 Carboxamido refers to C O N R R wherein Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein or Rand Rwhen taken together are a heterocyclic ring a cycloalkyl group or a bridged cycloalkyl group as defined herein.

 Alkylcarboxamido refers to an alkyl group as defined herein appended to a carboxamido group as defined herein.

 Arylcarboxamido refers to an aryl group as defined herein appended to a carboxamido group as defined herein.

 Urea refers to N R C O N R R wherein R R and Rare each independently a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein or Rand Rtaken together are a heterocyclic ring a cycloalkyl group or a bridged cycloalkyl group as defined herein.

 Phosphoryl refers to P R R R wherein Ris a lone pair of electrons thial or oxo and Rand Rare each independently a covalent bond a hydrogen a lower alkyl an alkoxy an alkylamino a hydroxy an oxy or an aryl as defined herein.

 Phosphoric acid refers to P O OR OH wherein Ris a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein.

 Phosphinic acid refers to P O R OH wherein Ris a hydrogen atom an alkyl group an aryl group or an arylheterocyclic ring as defined herein.

 Silyl refers to Si R R R wherein R Rand Rare each independently a covalent bond a lower alkyl an alkoxy an aryl or an arylalkoxy as defined herein.

Suitable prostaglandins include but are not limited to naturally occurring prostaglandins such as for example PGE PGE PGA PGB PGF PGF PGE 19 hydroxy PGA 19 hydroxy PGB PGE PGA PGB 19 hydroxy PGA 19 hydroxy PGB PGE PGF PGD PGI prostacyclins thromboxanes leukotrienes 6 keto PGEderivatives and carbacyclin derivatives or semisynthetic or synthetic derivatives of natural prostaglandins including but not limited to carboprost tromethamine dinoprost tromethamine dinoprostone gemeprost metenoprost sulprostone and triprost. Also included are the hydroxy derivatives of PGEincluding for example 19 OH PGE 18 OH PGE 20 OH PGEand the salts and esters thereof as disclosed in WO 99 02164 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Other prostaglandin compound for use in the present invention include isoprostanes such as 8 iso PGE 8 iso PGE iPF VI 12 iso PGF and the like as described by for example Rokach et al 54 823 851 1997 and Rokach et al 54 853 873 1997 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In one embodiment the prostaglandin is selected from the group consisting of arbaprostil alprostadil beraprost bimatoprost carboprost cloprostenol dimoxaprost dinoprost enprostil enisoprost fluprostenol fenprostalene froxiprost gemeprost latanoprost limaprost meteneprost mexiprostil misoprostol misoprost misoprostol acid nocloprost ONO 373 ornoprostil prostalene PGE PGE PGF PGF rioprostil rosaprostol remiprostol sulprostone tafluprost trimoprostil tiprostanide travoprost and unoprostone. PGEcompounds include but are not limited to alprostadil misoprostol and enprostil and their cyclodextrin complexes. All the prostaglandins described herein can be modified to contain at least one nitric oxide enhancing group following the methods described herein.

The contemplated prostaglandin compounds of the invention are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1996 Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition STN Express file phar and file registry the disclosures of each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In one embodiment the invention describes prostaglandins of Formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof 

Ris hydrogen or absent when the carbon to which it is attached is the central carbon of an allene functionality or Rand Rtaken together with the chain to which they are attached form a substituted benzene ring with the proviso that Ris an oxygen atom which is attached to the carbon atom at the position of the benzene ring defined by B 

Dis a hydrogen or K with the proviso that at least one Din formula I must be a nitric oxide enhancing group 

Wat each occurrence is independently C O C S T C R R N R R an alkyl group an aryl group a heterocyclic ring an arylheterocyclic ring CHCHO or a heterocyclic nitric oxide donor 

E at each occurrence is independently T an alkyl group an aryl group C R R a heterocyclic ring an arylheterocyclic ring CHCHO or Y 

Rand Rare independently selected from an alkyl group an aryl group or Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached are a heterocylic ring 

Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen an alkyl a cycloalkoxy a halogen a hydroxy an hydroxyalkyl an alkoxyalkyl an arylheterocyclic ring an alkylaryl an alkylcycloalkyl an alkylheterocyclic ring a cycloalkylalkyl a cycloalkylthio an arylalklythio an arylalklythioalkyl an alkylthioalkyl a cycloalkenyl an heterocyclicalkyl an alkoxy a haloalkoxy an amino an alkylamino a dialkylamino an arylamino a diarylamino an alkylarylamino an alkoxyhaloalkyl a sulfonic acid a sulfonic ester an alkylsulfonic acid an arylsulfonic acid an arylalkoxy an alkylthio an arylthio a cyano an aminoalkyl an aminoaryl an aryl an arylalkyl an alkylaryl a carboxamido an alkylcarboxamido an arylcarboxamido an amidyl a carboxyl a carbamoyl an alkylcarboxylic acid an arylcarboxylic acid an alkylcarbonyl an arylcarbonyl an ester a carboxylic ester an alkylcarboxylic ester an arylcarboxylic ester a sulfonamido an alkylsulfonamido an arylsulfonamido an alkylsulfonyl an alkylsulfonyloxy an arylsulfonyl arylsulphonyloxy a sulfonic ester an alkyl ester an aryl ester a urea a phosphoryl a nitro U V V C R R U V C R R U V C R R U V C R R U C O V or Rand Rtaken together with the carbons to which they are attached form a carbonyl a methanthial a heterocyclic ring a cycloalkyl group an aryl group an oxime an imine a hydrazone a bridged cycloalkyl group 

Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen an alkyl a cycloalkoxy a halogen a hydroxy an hydroxyalkyl an alkoxyalkyl an arylheterocyclic ring an alkylaryl an alkylcycloalkyl an alkylheterocyclic ring a cycloalkylalkyl a cycloalkylthio an arylalklythio an arylalklythioalkyl an alkylthioalkyl a cycloalkenyl an heterocyclicalkyl an alkoxy a haloalkoxy an amino an alkylamino a dialkylamino an arylamino a diarylamino an alkylarylamino an alkoxyhaloalkyl a sulfonic acid a sulfonic ester an alkylsulfonic acid an arylsulfonic acid an arylalkoxy an alkylthio an arylthio a cyano an aminoalkyl an aminoaryl an aryl an arylalkyl an alkylaryl a carboxamido an alkylcarboxamido an arylcarboxamido an amidyl a carboxyl a carbamoyl an alkylcarboxylic acid an arylcarboxylic acid an alkylcarbonyl an arylcarbonyl an ester a carboxylic ester an alkylcarboxylic ester an arylcarboxylic ester a sulfonamido an alkylsulfonamido an arylsulfonaxnido an alkylsulfonyl an alkylsulfonyloxy an arylsulfonyl arylsulphonyloxy a sulfonic ester an alkyl ester an aryl ester a urea a phosphoryl a nitro U V V or Rand Rtaken together with the carbons to which they are attached form a carbonyl a methanthial a heterocyclic ring a cycloalkyl group an aryl group an oxime an imine a hydrazone a bridged cycloalkyl group 

Ris a hydrogen an alkyl an aryl an alkylcarboxylic acid an arylcarboxylic acid an alkylcarboxylic ester an arylcarboxylic ester an alkylcarboxamido an arylcarboxamido an alkylaryl an alkylsulfinyl an alkylsulfonyl an alkylsulfonyloxy an arylsulfinyl an arylsulfonyl an arylsulphonyloxy a sulfonamido a carboxamido a carboxylic ester an aminoalkyl an aminoaryl CH C U V R R a bond to an adjacent atom creating a double bond to that atom or NO .M wherein M is an organic or inorganic cation and

with the proviso that the prostaglandin compound of Formula I must contain at least heterocyclic nitric oxide donor group and or nitroxide group linked to the prostaglandin compound of Formula I through an oxygen atom a nitrogen atom or a sulfur atom via a bond or moiety that can be hydrolyzed.

In cases where multiple designations of variables which reside in sequence are chosen as a covalent bond or the integer chosen is 0 the intent is to denote a single covalent bond connecting one radical to another. For example Ewould denote a covalent bond while Edenotes E E and C R R denotes C R R C R R .

The compound of Formula I that contains at least one nitric oxide enhancing group linked to the compound of Formula I through an oxygen atom a nitrogen atom or a sulfur atom via a bond or moiety that can be hydrolyzed are prodrugs of the parent prostaglandin compound and can be hydrolyzed to give the parent prostaglandin compound and a moiety that contains the nitric oxide enhancing group.

In other embodiments of the invention the compound of Formula I is a nitric oxide enhancing arbaprostil analogue a nitric oxide enhancing alprostadil analogue a nitric oxide enhancing bimatoprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing carboprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing cloprostenol analogue a nitric oxide enhancing dimoxaprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing dinoprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing enprostil analogue a nitric oxide enhancing enisoprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing fenprostalene analogue a nitric oxide enhancing froxiprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing gemeprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing latanoprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing meteneprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing mexiprostil analogue a nitric oxide enhancing misoprostol analogue a nitric oxide enhancing misoprostil analogue a nitric oxide enhancing misoprostol acid analogue a nitric oxide enhancing nocloprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing ONO 373 analogue a nitric oxide enhancing ornoprostil analogue a nitric oxide enhancing prostalene analogue a nitric oxide enhancing PGEanalogue a nitric oxide enhancing PGEanalogue a nitric oxide enhancing PGFanalogue a nitric oxide enhancing PGF analogue a nitric oxide enhancing rioprostil analogue a nitric oxide enhancing rosaprostol analogue a nitric oxide enhancing remiprostol analogue a nitric oxide enhancing sulprostone analogue a nitric oxide enhancing tafluprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing travoprost analogue a nitric oxide enhancing trimoprostil analogue a nitric oxide enhancing tiprostanide analogue a nitrosated unoprostone analogue and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In other embodiments of the invention the compound of Formula I is a nitric oxide enhancing arbaprostil analogue of Formula II a nitric oxide enhancing alprostadil or PGEanalogue of Formula III a nitric oxide enhancing bimatoprost analogue of Formula IV a nitric oxide enhancing carboprost analogue of Formula V a nitric oxide enhancing cloprostenol analogue of Formula VI a nitric oxide enhancing dimoxaprost analogue of Formula VII a nitric oxide enhancing dinoprost analogue of Formula VIII a nitric oxide enhancing enprostil analogue of Formula IX a nitric oxide enhancing enisoprost analogue of Formula X a nitric oxide enhancing fenprostalene analogue of Formula XI a nitric oxide enhancing froxiprost analogue of Formula XII a nitric oxide enhancing gemeprost analogue of Formula XIII a nitric oxide enhancing latanoprost analogue of Formula XIV a nitric oxide enhancing meteneprost analogue of Formula XV a nitric oxide enhancing mexiprostil analogue of Formula XVI a nitric oxide enhancing misoprostol analogue of Formula XVII a nitric oxide enhancing misoprostol acid analogue of Formula XVIII a nitric oxide enhancing nocloprost analogue of Formula XIX a nitric oxide enhancing ONO 373 analogue of Formula XX a nitric oxide enhancing ornoprostil analogue of Formula XXI a nitric oxide enhancing prostalene analogue of Formula XXII a nitric oxide enhancing PGEanalogue of Formula XXIII a nitric oxide enhancing PGFanalogue of Formula XXIV a nitric oxide enhancing PGF analogue of Formula XXV a nitric oxide enhancing rioprostil analogue of Formula XXVI a nitric oxide enhancing rosaprostol analogue of Formula XXVII a nitric oxide enhancing remiprostol analogue of Formula XXVIII a nitric oxide enhancing sulprostone analogue of Formula XXIX a nitric oxide enhancing tafluprost analogue of Formula XXX a nitric oxide enhancing travoprost analogue of Formula XXXI a nitric oxide enhancing trimoprostil analogue of Formula XXXII a nitric oxide enhancing tiprostanide analogue of Formula XXXIII a nitric oxide enhancing unoprostone analogue of Formula XXXIV and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof 

Rand Rare independently selected from an alkyl group an aryl group or Rand Rtaken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached are a heterocylic ring and

with the proviso that the compounds of Formula II to Formula XXXIV must contain at least one nitric oxide enhancing group linked to the compounds of Formula II to Formula XXXIV via a bond or moiety that can be hydrolyzed.

In other embodiments of the invention the compound of Formula I is a nitric oxide enhancing arbaprostil analogue of Formula XXXV a nitric oxide enhancing alprostadil or PGEanalogue of Formula XXXVI a nitric oxide enhancing bimatoprost analogue of Formula XXXVII a nitric oxide enhancing carboprost analogue of Formula XXXVIII a nitric oxide enhancing cloprostenol analogue of Formula XXXIX a nitric oxide enhancing dimoxaprost analogue of Formula XL a nitric oxide enhancing dinoprost analogue of Formula XLI a nitric oxide enhancing enprostil analogue of Formula XLII a nitric oxide enhancing enisoprost analogue of Formula XLIII a nitric oxide enhancing fenprostalene analogue of Formula XLIV a nitric oxide enhancing froxiprost analogue of Formula XLV a nitric oxide enhancing gemeprost analogue of Formula XLVI a nitric oxide enhancing latanoprost analogue of Formula XLVII a nitric oxide enhancing meteneprost analogue of Formula XLVIII a nitric oxide enhancing mexiprostil analogue of Formula XLIX a nitric oxide enhancing misoprostol analogue of Formula L a nitric oxide enhancing misoprostol acid analogue of Formula LI a nitric oxide enhancing nocloprost analogue of Formula LII a nitric oxide enhancing ONO 373 analogue of Formula LIII a nitric oxide enhancing ornoprostil analogue of Formula LIV a nitric oxide enhancing prostalene analogue of Formula LV a nitric oxide enhancing PGEanalogue of Formula LVI a nitric oxide enhancing PGFanalogue of Formula LVII a nitric oxide enhancing PGF analogue of Formula LVIII a nitric oxide enhancing rioprostil analogue of Formula LIX a nitric oxide enhancing rosaprostol analogue of Formula LX a nitric oxide enhancing remiprostol analogue of Formula LXI a nitric oxide enhancing sulprostone analogue of Formula LXII a nitric oxide enhancing tafluprost analogue of Formula LXIII a nitric oxide enhancing travoprost analogue of Formula LXIV a nitric oxide enhancing trimoprostil analogue of Formula LXV a nitric oxide enhancing tiprostanide analogue of Formula LXVI a nitric oxide enhancing unoprostone analogue of Formula LXVII and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof 

with the proviso that the compounds of Formula XXXV to LXVII must contain at least one nitric oxide enhancing group linked to the compounds of Formula XXXV to LXVII via a bond or moiety that can be hydrolyzed.

Compounds of the invention that have one or more asymmetric carbon atoms may exist as the optically pure enantiomers pure diastereomers mixtures of enantiomers mixtures of diastereomers racemic mixtures of enantiomers diastereomeric racemates or mixtures of diastereomeric racemates. It is to be understood that the invention anticipates and includes within its scope all such isomers and mixtures thereof.

Another embodiment of the invention describes the metabolites of the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. These metabolites include but are not limited to the non nitric oxide enhancing derivatives degradation products hydrolysis products and the like of the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

Another embodiment of the invention provides processes for making the novel compounds of the invention and to the intermediates useful in such processes. The reactions are performed in solvents appropriate to the reagents and materials used are suitable for the transformations being effected. It is understood by one skilled in the art of organic synthesis that the functionality present in the molecule must be consistent with the chemical transformation proposed. This will on occasion necessitate judgment by the routineer as to the order of synthetic steps protecting groups required and deprotection conditions. Substituents on the starting materials may be incompatible with some of the reaction conditions required in some of the methods described but alternative methods and substituents compatible with the reaction conditions will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art. The use of sulfur and oxygen protecting groups is well known for protecting thiol and alcohol groups against undesirable reactions during a synthetic procedure and many such protecting groups are known and described by for example Greene and Wuts Third Edition John Wiley Sons New York 1999 .

The chemical reactions described herein are generally disclosed in terms of their broadest application to the preparation of the compounds of this invention. Occasionally the reactions may not be applicable as described to each compound included within the disclosed scope. The compounds for which this occurs will be readily recognized by one skilled in the art. In all such cases either the reactions can be successfully performed by conventional modifications known to one skilled in the art e.g. by appropriate protection of interfering groups by changing to alternative conventional reagents by routine modification of reaction conditions and the like or other reactions disclosed herein or otherwise conventional will be applicable to the preparation of the corresponding compounds of this invention. In all preparative methods all starting materials are known or readily prepared from known starting materials.

The compounds of Formulas I to LVII can be synthesized by one skilled in the art using conventional methods. Some of the parent prostaglandin compounds i.e. prostaglandin compounds that do not contain a nitric oxide enhancing group are commercially available or their synthesis has been reported in the scientific literature. The prostaglandin compounds that are substituted to contain a nitric oxide enhancing group linked to the prostaglandin compound through one or more sites such as oxygen sulfur and or nitrogen via a bond or moiety that can be hydrolyzed can be synthesized using conventional methods known to one skilled in the art. Known methods for linking the nitric oxide enhancing groups to compounds are described in WO 99 64417 WO 94 01422 EP 0 574 726 A1 EP 0 683 159 A1 and in 47 2688 2693 2004 47 1840 1846 2004 46 3762 3765 2003 46 747 754 2003 102 1091 1134 2002 42 1941 1950 1999 41 5393 5401 1998 38 4944 4949 1995 47 II 847 854 1997 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. The methods of linking the nitric oxide enhancing group to compounds described in these references can be applied by one skilled in the art to produce any of the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds described herein. The prostaglandin compounds of the invention comprising at least one nitric oxide enhancing group donate or transfer a biologically active form of nitrogen monoxide i.e. nitric oxide .

Compounds contemplated for use in the invention e.g. prostaglandin compounds that contain at least one nitric oxide enhancing group linked through one or more sites such as oxygen hydroxyl condensation sulfur sulfhydryl condensation and or nitrogen via a bond or moiety that is hydrolyzed are optionally used in combination with nitric oxide enhancing compounds that release nitric oxide increase endogeneous levels of nitric oxide or otherwise directly or indirectly deliver or transfer a biologically active form of nitrogen monoxide to a site of its intended activity such as on a cell membrane in vivo.

Nitrogen monoxide can exist in three forms NO nitroxyl NO. nitric oxide and NO nitrosonium . NO. is a highly reactive short lived species that is potentially toxic to cells. This is critical because the pharmacological efficacy of NO depends upon the form in which it is delivered. In contrast to the nitric oxide radical NO. nitrosonium NO does not react with Oor O species and functionalities capable of transferring and or releasing NO and NO are also resistant to decomposition in the presence of many redox metals. Consequently administration of charged NO equivalents positive and or negative does not result in the generation of toxic by products or the elimination of the active NO group.

The term nitric oxide encompasses uncharged nitric oxide NO. and charged nitrogen monoxide species preferably charged nitrogen monoxide species such as nitrosonium ion NO and nitroxyl ion NO . The reactive form of nitric oxide can be provided by gaseous nitric oxide. The nitrogen monoxide releasing delivering or transferring compounds have the structure F NO wherein F is a nitrogen monoxide releasing delivering or transferring group and include any and all such compounds which provide nitrogen monoxide to its intended site of action in a form active for its intended purpose.

The term NO adducts encompasses any nitrogen monoxide releasing delivering or transferring compounds including for example S nitrosothiols nitrites nitrates S nitrothiols sydnonimines 2 hydroxy 2 nitrosohydrazines NONOates E alkyl 2 E hydroxyimino 5 nitro 3 hexeneamide FK 409 E alkyl 24 E hydroxyimino 5 nitro 3 hexeneamines N 2Z 3E 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyimino 6 methyl 5 nitro 3 heptenyl 3 pyridinecarboxamide FR 146801 N nitrosoamines N hydroxyl nitrosamines nitrosimines diazetine dioxides oxatriazole 5 imines oximes hydroxylamines N hydroxyguanidines hydroxyureas benzofuroxanes furoxans as well as substrates for the endogenous enzymes which synthesize nitric oxide.

Suitable NONOates include but are not limited to Z 1 N methyl N 6 N methyl ammoniohexyl amino diazen 1 ium 1 2 diolate MAHMA NO Z 1 N 3 ammoniopropyl N n propyl amino diazen 1 ium 1 2 diolate PAPA NO Z 1 N 3 aminopropyl N 4 3 aminopropylammonio butyl amino diazen 1 ium 1 2 diolate spermine NONOate or SPER NO and sodium Z 1 N N diethylamino diazenium 1 2 diolate diethylamine NONOate or DEA NO and derivatives thereof. NONOates are also described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 232 336 5 910 316 and 5 650 447 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The NO adducts can be mono nitrosylated poly nitrosylated mono nitrosated and or poly nitrosated at a variety of naturally susceptible or artificially provided binding sites for biologically active forms of nitrogen monoxide.

Suitable furoxanes include but are not limited to CAS 1609 C93 4759 C92 4678 S35b CHF 2206 CHF 2363 and the like.

Suitable sydnonimines include but are not limited to molsidomine N ethoxycarbonyl 3 morpholinosydnonimine SIN 1 3 morpholinosydnonimine CAS 936 3 cis 2 6 dimethylpiperidino N 4 methoxybenzoyl sydnonimine pirsidomine C87 3754 3 cis 2 6 dimethylpiperidino sydnonimine linsidomine C4144 3 3 3 dimethyl 1 4 thiazane 4 yl sydnonimine hydrochloride C89 4095 3 3 3 dimethyl 1 1 dioxo 1 4 thiazane 4 yl sydnonimine hydrochloride and the like.

One group of NO adducts is the S nitrosothiols which are compounds that include at least one S NO group. These compounds include S nitroso polypeptides the term polypeptide includes proteins and polyamino acids that do not possess an ascertained biological function and derivatives thereof S nitrosylated amino acids including natural and synthetic amino acids and their stereoisomers and racemic mixtures and derivatives thereof S nitrosylated sugars S nitrosylated modified and unmodified oligonucleotides preferably of at least 5 and more preferably 5 200 nucleotides straight or branched saturated or unsaturated aliphatic or aromatic substituted or unsubstituted S nitrosylated hydrocarbons and S nitroso heterocyclic compounds. S nitrosothiols and methods for preparing them are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 380 758 and 5 703 073 WO 97 27749 WO 98 19672 and Oae et al 15 3 165 198 1983 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Another embodiment of the invention is S nitroso amino acids where the nitroso group is linked to a sulfur group of a sulfur containing amino acid or derivative thereof. Such compounds include for example S nitroso N acetylcysteine S nitroso captopril S nitroso N acetylpenicillamine S nitroso homocysteine S nitroso cysteine S nitroso glutathione S nitroso cysteinyl glycine and the like.

Suitable S nitrosylated proteins include thiol containing proteins where the NO group is attached to one or more sulfur groups on an amino acid or amino acid derivative thereof from various functional classes including enzymes such as tissue type plasminogen activator TPA and cathepsin B transport proteins such as lipoproteins heme proteins such as hemoglobin and serum albumin and biologically protective proteins such as immunoglobulins antibodies and cytokines. Such nitrosylated proteins are described in WO 93 09806 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Examples include polynitrosylated albumin where one or more thiol or other nucleophilic centers in the protein are modified.

Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen an alkyl a cycloalkoxy a halogen a hydroxy an hydroxyalkyl an alkoxyalkyl an arylheterocyclic ring an alkylaryl an alkylcycloalkyl an alkylheterocyclic ring a cycloalkylalkyl a cycloalkylthio an arylalklythio an arylalklythioalkyl an alkylthioalkyl a cycloalkenyl an heterocyclicalkyl an alkoxy a haloalkoxy an amino an alkylamino a dialkylamino an arylamino a diarylamino an alkylarylamino an alkoxyhaloalkyl a sulfonic acid a sulfonic ester an alkylsulfonic acid an arylsulfonic acid an arylalkoxy an alkylthio an arylthio a cyano an aminoalkyl an aminoaryl an aryl an arylalkyl an alkylaryl a carboxamido an alkylcarboxamido an arylcarboxamido an amidyl a carboxyl a carbamoyl an alkylcarboxylic acid an arylcarboxylic acid an alkylcarbonyl an arylcarbonyl an ester a carboxylic ester an alkylcarboxylic ester an arylcarboxylic ester a sulfonamido an alkylsulfonamido an arylsulfonamido an alkylsulfonyl an alkylsulfonyloxy an arylsulfonyl arylsulphonyloxy a sulfonic ester an alkyl ester an aryl ester a urea a phosphoryl a nitro U V V C R R U V C R R U V C R R U C O V or Rand Rtaken together with the carbons to which they are attached form a carbonyl a methanthial a heterocyclic ring a cycloalkyl group an aryl group an oxime a hydrazone a bridged cycloalkyl group 

Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen an alkyl a cycloalkoxy a halogen a hydroxy an hydroxyalkyl an alkoxyalkyl an arylheterocyclic ring an alkylaryl an alkylcycloalkyl an alkylheterocyclic ring a cycloalkylalkyl a cycloalkylthio an arylalklythio an arylalklythioalkyl an alkylthioalkyl a cycloalkenyl an heterocyclicalkyl an alkoxy a haloalkoxy an amino an alkylamino a dialkylamino an arylamino a diarylamino an alkylarylamino an alkoxyhaloalkyl a sulfonic acid a sulfonic ester an alkylsulfonic acid an arylsulfonic acid an arylalkoxy an alkylthio an arylthio a cyano an aminoalkyl an aminoaryl an aryl an arylalkyl an alkylaryl a carboxamido an alkylcarboxamido an arylcarboxamido an amidyl a carboxyl a carbamoyl an alkylcarboxylic acid an arylcarboxylic acid an alkylcarbonyl an arylcarbonyl an ester a carboxylic ester an alkylcarboxylic ester an arylcarboxylic ester a sulfonamido an alkylsulfonamido an arylsulfonamido an alkylsulfonyl an alkylsulfonyloxy an arylsulfonyl arylsulphonyloxy a sulfonic ester an alkyl ester an aryl ester a urea a phosphoryl a nitro U V V or Rand Rtaken together with the carbons to which they are attached form a carbonyl a methanthial a heterocyclic ring a cycloalkyl group an aryl group an oxime an imine a hydrazone a bridged cycloalkyl group 

Ris a hydrogen an alkyl an aryl an alkylcarboxylic acid an arylcarboxylic acid an alkylcarboxylic ester an arylcarboxylic ester an alkylcarboxamido an arylcarboxamido an alkylaryl an alkylsulfinyl an alkylsulfonyl an alkylsulfonyloxy an arylsulfinyl an arylsulfonyl arylsulphonyloxy a sulfonamido a carboxamido a carboxylic ester an aminoalkyl an aminoaryl CH C U V R R a bond to an adjacent atom creating a double bond to that atom or NO .M wherein M is an organic or inorganic cation.

In cases where Rand Rare independently a heterocyclic ring or taken together Rand Rare a heterocyclic ring then Rcan be a substituent on any disubstituted nitrogen contained within the radical wherein Ris as defined herein.

Nitrosothiols can be prepared by various methods of synthesis. In general the thiol precursor is prepared first then converted to the S nitrosothiol derivative by nitrosation of the thiol group with NaNOunder acidic conditions pH is about 2.5 which yields the S nitroso derivative. Acids which can be used for this purpose include aqueous sulfuric acetic and hydrochloric acids. The thiol precursor can also be nitrosylated by reaction with an organic nitrite such as tert butyl nitrite or a nitrosonium salt such as nitrosonium tetrafluoroborate in an inert solvent.

Another group of NO adducts for use in the invention where the NO adduct is a compound that donates transfers or releases nitric oxide include compounds comprising at least one ON O or ON N group. The compounds that include at least one ON O or ON N group are preferably ON O or ON N polypeptides the term polypeptide includes proteins and polyamino acids that do not possess an ascertained biological function and derivatives thereof ON O or ON N amino acids including natural and synthetic amino acids and their stereoisomers and racemic mixtures ON O or ON N sugars ON O or ON N modified or unmodified oligonucleotides comprising at least 5 nucleotides preferably 5 200 nucleotides ON O or ON N straight or branched saturated or unsaturated aliphatic or aromatic substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbons and ON O ON N or ON C heterocyclic compounds. Examples of compounds comprising at least one ON O or ON N group include butyl nitrite isobutyl nitrite tert butyl nitrite amyl nitrite isoamyl nitrite N nitrosamines N nitrosamides N nitrosourea N nitrosoguanidines N nitrosocarbamates N acyl N nitroso compounds such as N methyl N nitrosourea N hydroxy N nitrosamines cupferron alanosine dopastin 1 3 disubstituted nitrosiminobenzimidazoles 1 3 4 thiadiazole 2 nitrositnines benzothiazole 2 3H nitrosimines thiazole 2 nitrosimines oligonitroso sydnonimines 3 alkyl N nitroso sydnonimines 2H 1 3 4 thiadiazine nitrosimines.

Another group of NO adducts for use in the invention include nitrates that donate transfer or release nitric oxide such as compounds comprising at least one ON O ON N or ON S group. Among these compounds are ON O ON N or ON S polypeptides the term polypeptide includes proteins and also polyamino acids that do not possess an ascertained biological function and derivatives thereof ON O ON N or ON S amino acids including natural and synthetic amino acids and their stereoisomers and racemic mixtures ON O ON N or ON S sugars ON O ON N or ON S modified and unmodified oligonucleotides comprising at least 5 nucleotides preferably 5 200 nucleotides ON O ON N or ON S straight or branched saturated or unsaturated aliphatic or aromatic substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbons and ON O ON N or ON S heterocyclic compounds. Examples of compounds comprising at least one ON O ON N or ON S group include isosorbide dinitrate isosorbide mononitrate clonitrate erythrityl tetranitrate mannitol hexanitrate nitroglycerin pentaerythritoltetranitrate pentrinitrol propatylnitrate and organic nitrates with a sulfhydryl containing amino acid such as for example SPM 3672 SPM 4757 SPM 5185 SPM 5186 and those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 284 872 5 428 061 5 661 129 5 807 847 and 5 883 122 and in WO 97 46521 WO 00 54756 and in WO 03 013432 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Another group of NO adducts are N oxo N nitrosoamines that donate transfer or release nitric oxide and are represented by the formula RRN N O M NO where R and R are each independently a polypeptide an amino acid a sugar a modified or unmodified oligonucleotide a straight or branched saturated or unsaturated aliphatic or aromatic substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon or a heterocyclic group and where M is an organic or inorganic cation such as for example an alkyl substituted ammonium cation or a Group I metal cation.

The invention is also directed to compounds that stimulate endogenous NO or elevate levels of endogenous endothelium derived relaxing factor EDRF in vivo or are oxidized to produce nitric oxide and or are substrates for nitric oxide synthase and or cytochrome P450. Such compounds include for example L arginine L homoarginine and N hydroxy L arginine N hydroxy L homoarginine N hydroxydebrisoquine N hydroxypentamidine including their nitrosated and or nitrosylated analogs e.g. nitrosated L arginine nitrosylated L arginine nitrosated N hydroxy L arginine nitrosylated N hydroxy L arginine nitrosated and nitrosylated L homoarginine N hydroxyguanidine compounds amidoxime ketoximes aldoxime compounds that can be oxidized in vivo to produce nitric oxide. Compounds that may be substrates for a cytochrome P450 include for example imino benzylamino methylhydroxylamine imino 4 methylphenyl methyl amino methylhydroxylamine imino 4 methoxyphenyl methyl amino methylhydroxylamine imino 4 trifluoromethypphenyl methyl amino methylhydroxylamine imino 4 nitrophenyl methyl amino methylhydroxylamine butylamino iminornethythydroxylamine imino propylamino methylhydroxylamine imino pentylamino methylhydroxylamine imino propylamino methylhydroxylamine imino methylethyl amino methylhydroxylamine cyclopropylamino iminomethylhydroxylamine imino 2 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolyl methylhydroxylamine imino 1 methyl 2 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolyl methylhydroxylamine 1 3 dimethyl 2 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinolyl iminomethylhydroxylamine 4 chlorophenyl methyl amino iminomethylhydroxylamine 4 chlorophenyl amino iminomethylhydroxylamine 4 chlorophenyl hydroxyimino methylamine and 1 4 chlorophenyl 1 hydroxyimino ethane and the like precursors of L arginine and or physiologically acceptable salts thereof including for example citrulline ornithine glutamine lysine polypeptides comprising at least one of these amino acids inhibitors of the enzyme arginase e.g. N hydroxy L arginine and 2 S amino 6 boronohexanoic acid nitric oxide mediators and or physiologically acceptable salts thereof including for example pyruvate pyruvate precursors keto acids having four or more carbon atoms precursors of keto acids having four or more carbon atoms as disclosed in WO 03 017996 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety and the substrates for nitric oxide synthase cytokines adenosin bradykinin calreticulin bisacodyl and phenolphthalein. EDRF is a vascular relaxing factor secreted by the endothelium and has been identified as nitric oxide NO or a closely related derivative thereof Palmer et al 327 524 526 1987 Ignarro et al 84 9265 9269 1987 .

The invention is also directed to nitric oxide enhancing compounds that can increase endogenous nitric oxide. Such compounds include for example nitroxide containing compounds include but are not limited to substituted 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 1 piperidinyloxy compounds substituted 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 pyrroline 1 oxyl compounds substituted 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 1 pyrrolidinyloxyl compounds substituted 1 1 3 3 tetramethylisoindolin 2 yloxyl compounds substituted 2 2 4 4 tetramethyl 1 oxazolidinyl 3 oxyl compounds substituted 3 imidazolin 1 yloxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 imidazolin 1 yloxyl compounds OT 551 4 hydroxy 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 1 piperidinyloxy tempol and the like. Suitable substituents include but are not limited to aminomethyl benzoyl 2 bromoacetamido 2 2 2 bromoacetamido ethoxy ethylcarbamoyl carbamoyl carboxy cyano 5 dimethylamino 1 naphthalenesulfonamido ethoxyfluorophosphinyloxy ethyl 5 fluoro 2 4 dinitroanilino hydroxy 2 iodoacetamido isothiocyanato isothiocyanatomethyl methyl maleimido maleimidoethyl 2 2 maleimidoethoxy ethylcarbamoyl maleimidomethyl maleimido oxo phosphonooxy and the like.

The invention is also based on the discovery that compounds and compositions of the invention may be used in conjunction with other therapeutic agents for co therapies partially or completely in place of other therapeutic agents such as for example aldosterone antagonists adrenergic receptor agonists adrenergic receptor antagonists adrenergic agonists antidiabetic compounds antimicrobial compounds anti hyperlipidemic drugs angiotensin II antagonists angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors antioxidants antithrombotic and vasodilator drugs adrenergic antagonists calcium channel blockers carbonic anhydrase inhibitors diuretics endothelin antagonists hydralazine compounds Hreceptor antagonists neutral endopeptidase inhibitors nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compounds NSAIDs phosphodiesterase inhibitors potassium channel blockers platelet reducing agents prostaglandins proton pump inhibitors renin inhibitors selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors steroids compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma and combinations of two or more thereof.

Suitable aldosterone antagonists include but are not limited to canrenone potassium canrenoate drospirenone spironolactone eplerenone INSPRA epoxymexrenone fadrozole pregn 4 ene 7 21 dicarboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 17 hydroxy 3 oxo lactone methyl ester 7 11 17 . pregn 4 ene 7 21 dicarboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 17 hydroxy 3 oxo dimethyl ester 7 11 17 . 3 H cyclopropa 6 7 pregna 4 6 diene 21 carboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 6 7 dihydro 17 hydroxy 3 oxo lactone 6 7 11 17 pregn 4 ene 7 21 dicarboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 17 hydroxy 3 oxo 7 1 methylethyl ester monopotassium salt 7 11 17 . pregn 4 ene 7 21 dicarboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 17 hydroxy 3 oxo 7 methyl ester monopotassium salt 7 11 17 . 3 H cyclopropa 6 7 pregna 1 4 6 triene 21 carboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 6 7 dihydro 17 hydroxy 3 oxo lactone 6 7 11 3 H cyclopropa 6 7 pregna 4 6 diene 21 carboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 6 7 dihydro 17 hydroxy 3 oxo methyl ester 6 7 11 17 3 H cyclopropa 6 7 pregna 4 6 diene 21 carboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 6 7 dihydro 17 hydroxy 3 oxo monopotassium salt 6 7 11 17 3 H cyclopropa 6 7 pregna 1 4 6 triene 21 carboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 6 7 dihydro 17 hydroxy 3 oxo lactone 6 7 11 17 pregn 4 ene 7 21 dicarboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 17 hydroxy 3 oxo lactone ethyl ester 7 11 17 pregn 4 ene 7 21 dicarboxylic acid 9 11 epoxy 17 hydroxy 3 oxo lactone 1 methylethyl ester 7 11 17 RU 28318 and the like. Suitable aldosterone antagonists are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the aldosterone antagonists is eplerenone or spironolactone a potassium sparing diuretic that acts like an aldosterone antagonist . In more particular embodiments eplerenone is administered in an amount of about 25 milligrams to about 300 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the spironolactone is administered in an amount of about 25 milligrams to about 150 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day.

Suitable adrenergic receptor agonists include but are not limited to agmatine p aminoclonidine apraclonidine IOPIDINE 2 arylamino imidazolidine derivatives azepexole azepin derivatives such as for example 2 amino 6 alkyl 4 5 7 8 tetrahydro 6H thiazolo 5 4 d azepine 2 amino 6 ethyl 4 5 7 8 tetrahydro 6H thiazolo 5 4 d azepine 2 amino 6 ethyl 4 5 7 8 tetrahydro 6H oxazolo 5 4 d azepine and the like brimonidine clonidine clonidine derivatives detomidine dexmedetomidine dipivefrin dipivalylepinephrine epinephrine guanabenz guanfacine imidazolidine derivatives such as for example 5 bromo 6 2 imidazolidine 2 ylamino quinoxaline and the like p iodoclonidine medetomidine methoxamine VASOXYL mephentermine metaraminol ARAMINE methyldopa mitodrine naphazoline PRIVINE NAPHCON norepinephrine oxymetazoline AFRIN OCUCLEAR phenylepinephrine NEOSYNEPHRINE rilmenidine tetrahydrozoline TYZINE VISINE tramazoline xylazine xylometazoline OTRIVIN B HT 920 6 allyl 2 amino 5 6 7 8 tetrahydro 4H thiazolo 4 5 d azepine B HT 933 and UK 14 304 and the like. Suitable adrenergic receptor agonists are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1996 Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition STN Express file phar and file registry the disclosures of each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In some embodiments the adrenergic receptor agonists are aminoclonidine apraclonidine IOPIDINE brimonidine clonidine and clonidine derivatives.

Suitable adrenergic receptor antagonists receptor antagonists include but are not limited to phentolamine tolazoline idazoxan deriglidole RX 821002 BRL 44408 BRL 44409 BAM 1303 labetelol ifenprodil rauwolscine corynathine raubascine tetrahydroalstonine apoyohimbine akuammigine yohimbine yohimbol yohimbine pseudoyohimbine epi 3 yohimbine 10 hydroxy yohimbine 11 hydroxy yohimbine tamsulosin benoxathian atiparnezole BE 2254 WB 4101 HU 723 tedisamil mirtazipine setiptiline reboxitine delequamine naftopil saterinone SL 89.0591 ARC 239 urapidil 5 methylurapidil monatepi haloperidol indoramin SB 216469 moxisylyte trazodone dapiprozole efaroxan Recordati 15 2739 SNAP 1069 SNAP 5089 SNAP 5272 RS 17053 SL 89.0591 KMD 3213 spiperone AH 11110A chloroethylclonidine BMY 7378 niguldipine and the like. Suitable alpha adrenergic receptor antagonists are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Suitable adrenergic agonists include but are not limited to albuterol bambuterol bitolterol carbuterol clenbuterol dobutamine fenoterol formoterol hexoprenaline isoprotenerol mabuterol metaproterenol pirbuterol prenalterol procaterol protokylol ritodrine rimiterol reproterol salmeterol soterenol terbutaline tretoquinol tulobuterol and the like. Suitable adrenergic agonists are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Suitable antidiabetic compounds include but are not limited to acarbose acetohexamide buformin carbutamide chlorpropamide glibornuride gliclazide glimepiride glipizide gliquidone glisoxepid glyburide glybuthiazol e glybuzole glyhexamide glymidine glypinamide insulin metformin miglitol nateglinide phenbutamide phenformin pioglitazone repaglinide rosiglitazone tolazamide tolbutamide tolcyclamide troglitazone voglibose and the like. Suitable antidiabetic compounds are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Suitable antimicrobial compounds include but are not limited to acediasulfone aceturate acetyl sulfametossipirazine acetyl sulfamethoxypyrazine acranil albendazole alexidine amatadine ambazone amdinocillin amikacin p aminosalicylic acid p aminosalicylic acid hydrazine amoxicillin ampicillin anisomycin apalcillin apicyclin apramycin arbekacin argininsa aspoxicillin azidamfenicol azidocillin azithromycin azlocillin aztreonam bacampicillin bacitracin benzoylpas benzyl penicillin acid benzyl sulfamide bicozamycin bipenam brodimoprim capreomycin carbenicillin carbomycin cafazedone carindacillin carumonam cefcapene pivoxil cefaclor cefadroxil cefafroxil cefamandole cefatamet cefatrizine cefazedone cefazolin cefbuperazone cefclidin cefdinir cefditoren cefixime cefinenoxime cefinetazole cefrninox cefodizime cefonicid cefoperazone ceforanide cefotaxime cefotetan cefotiam cefoxitin cefozopran cefpimizole cefpiramide cefpirome cefpodoxime proxetil cefprozil cefroxadine cefsulodin ceftazidime cefteram ceftezole ceftibuten ceftiofur ceftizoxime ceftriaxone cefuroxime cefuzonam cephacetrile sodium cephadrine cephalexin cephaloglycin cephaloridine cephalosporin C cephalothin cephapirin sodium cephradine chibrorifamycin chloramphenicol chlorotetracycline cinoxacin ciprofloxacin claritromycin clavulanic acid clinafloxacin clindamycin clofazimine clofoctal clometocillin clomocycline cloxacillin cloxyquin colistin cyclacilline cycloserine danoflaxcin dapsone deoxycycline deoxydihydrostreptomycin dibekacin dicloxacillin difloxacin dihydrostreptomycin dimetridazole diminazene dirirtomycin duramycin eflornithine enrofloxacin enviomycin epicillin erythromycin etacillin ethambutol ethionamide famcyclovir fenbecillin fleroxacin flomoxef floxacillin flumequine n formamidoylthienamycin furonazide fortimycin furazolium chloride gentamycin glyconiazide gramicidin grepafloxacin guamecycline halofuginone hetacillin homidium hydroxyl stilbamidine ibostamycin imidocarb imipenam ipronidazole isoniazide josamycin inosine kanamycin lauroguadine lenampicillin lincomycin lomefloxacin loracarbef lymecyclin mafenide mebendazole meclocyclin meropenem metampicillin metacicline methacycline methicillin sodium metronidazole 4 methylsulfamoyl sulfanilanilide mezlocillin meziocillin micronomycin midecamycin A minocycline miocamycin miokamycin morfazinamide moxalactam mupirocin myxin nadifloxacin nalidixic acid negamycin neomycin netlimycin nifurfoline nifurpirinol nifurprazine nimorazole nitroxoline norfloxacin novobiocin ofloxacin oleandomycin opiniazide oxacillin oxophenarsine oxolinic acid oxytetracycline panipenam paromycin pazufloxacin pefloxacin penicillin G potassium salt penicillin N penicillin O penicillin V penethamate hydroiodide pentamidine phenamidine phenethicillin potassium salt phenyl aminosalicyclate pipacycline pipemidic acid piperacillin pirlimycin piromidic acid pivampicillin pivcefalexin polymyxin B profiromycin propamidine propicillin protionamide puraltadone puromycin pyrazinamide pyrimethamine quinacillin quinacrine quinapyramine quintine ribostamycin rifabutine rifamide rifampin rifamycin rifanpin rifapentine rifaxyrnine ritipenem rokitamycin rolitetracycline rosamycin rufloxacin salazosulfadimidine salinazid sancycline sarafloxacin sedacamycin secnidazole sisomycin sparfloxacin spectinomycin spiramycin spiramycin I spiramycin II spiramycin III stilbamidine streptomycin streptonicizid sulbactam sulbenicillin succisulfone sulfanilamide sulfabenzamide sulfacetamide sulfachloropyridazine sulfachrysoidine sulfacytine sulfadiazine sulfadicramide sulfadimethoxine sulfadoxine sulfadrazine sulfaetidol sulfafenazol sulfaguanidine sulfaguanole sulfalene sulfamerazine sulfameter sulfamethazine sulfamethizole sulfaxnethomidine sulfamethoxazole sulfamethoxypyridazine sulfamethylthiazol sulfamethylthiazole sulfametrole sulfamidochrysoidine sulfamoxole sulfanilamide 4 sulfanilamido salicylic acid 4 4 sulfanilylbenzylamine p sulfanilylbenzylamine 2 p sulfinylanilinoethanol sulfanilylurea sulfoniazide sulfaperine sulfaphenazole sulfaproxyline sulfapyrazine sulfapyridine sulfathiazole sulfaethidole sulfathiourea sulfisomidine sulfasomizole sulfasymazine sulfisoxazole 4 4 sulfinyldianiline N sulfanilylsulfanilamide N sulfanilyl 3 4 xylamide sultamicillin talampicillin tambutol taurolidine teiclplanin temocillin tetracycline tetroxoprim thiabendazole thiazolsulfone tibezonium iodide ticarcillin tigemonam tinidazole tobramycin tosufloxacin trimethoprim troleandromycin trospectomycin trovafloxacin tubercidine miokamycin oleandomycin troleandromycin vancomycin verazide viomycin virginiamycin zalcitabine PA 1806 and PA 2794 and the like. Suitable antimicrobial compounds are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1996 Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition STN Express file phar and file registry the disclosures of each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In some embodiments the antimicrobial compounds include but are not limited to amikacin azithromycin azetreonam bacitracin carbenicillin cefazolin cefoxitin cephaloridine chibrorifamycin chloramphenicol colistin duramycin n formamidoylthienamycin gentamycin gramicidin kanamycin neomycin penicillin G polymyxin B sisomicin tetracyclines tigecycline tobramycin vancomycin PA 1806 and PA 2794.

In other embodiments the antimicrobial compound is an antiviral compound including but not limited to acyclovir amatadine cidofovir cytarabine didanosine dideoxyadenosine edoxudine famciclovir floxuridine gancyclovir idoxuridine indanavir kethoxal lamivudine MADU penciclovir podophyllotoxin ribavirine rimantadine saquinavir sorivudine stavudine trifluridine valacyclovir vidarabine xenazoic acid zalcitabine zidovudine and the like.

Suitable anti hyperlipidemic compounds include but are not limited to statins or HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as for example atorvastatin LIPITOR bervastatin cerivastatin BAYCOL dalvastatin fluindostatin Sandoz XU 62 320 fluvastatin glenvastatin lovastatin MEVACOR mevastatin pravastatin PRAVACHOL rosuvastatin CRESTRO simvastatin ZOCOR velostatin also known as synvinolin VYTORIN ezetimibe simvastatin GR 95030 SQ 33 600 BMY 22089 BMY 22 566 CI 980 and the like gemfibrozil cholystyramine colestipol niacin nicotinic acid bile acid sequestrants such as for example cholestyramine colesevelam colestipol poly methyl 3 trimethylaminopropyl imino trimethylene dihalide and the like probucol fibric acid agents or fibrates such as for example bezafibrate Bezalip beclobrate binifibrate ciprofibrate clinofibrate clofibrate etofibrate fenofibrate Lipidil Lipidil Micro gemfibrozil Lopid nicofibrate pirifibrate ronifibrate simfibrate theofibrate and the like cholesterol ester transfer protein CETP inhibitors such as for example CGS 25159 CP 529414 torcetrapid JTT 705 substituted N 3 1 1 2 2 tetrafluoroethoxy benzyl N 3 phenoxyphenyl trifluoro 3 amino 2 propanols N N disubstituted trifluoro 3 amino 2 propanols PD 140195 4 phenyl 5 tridecyl 4H 1 2 4 triazole 3 thiol SC 794 SC 795 SCH 58149 and the like.

In some embodiments the anti hyperlipidemic compounds are atorvastatin fluvastatin lovastatin pravastatin rosuvastatin or simvastatin. In more particular embodiments the atorvastatin is administered in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 80 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the fluvastatin is administered in an amount of about 20 milligrams to about 80 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the lovastatin is administered in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 80 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the pravastatin is administered in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 80 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the rosuvastatin is administered in an amount of about 5 milligrams to about 40 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the simvastatin is administered in an amount of about 5 milligrams to about 80 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day.

Suitable angiotensin II antagonists include but are not limited to angiotensin abitesartan candesartan candesartan cilexetil elisartan embusartan enoltasosartan eprosartan fonsartan forasartan glycyllosartan irbesartan losartan olmesartan milfasartan medoxomil ripisartan pomisartan pratosartan saprisartan saralasin sarmesin tasosartan telmisartan valsartan zolasartan 3 2 tetrazole 5 yl 1 1 biphen 4 yl methyl 5 7 dimethyl 2 ethyl 3H imidazo 4 5 b pyridine antibodies to angiotensin II A 81282 A 81988 BAY 106734 BIBR 363 BIBS 39 BIBS 222 BMS 180560 BMS 184698 BMS 346567 CGP 38560A CGP 42112A CGP 48369 CGP 49870 CGP 63170 CI 996 CP 148130 CL 329167 CV 11194 CV 11974 DA 2079 DE 3489 DMP 811 DuP 167 DuP 532 DuP 753 E 1477 E 4177 E 4188 EMD 66397 EMD 666R4 EMD 73495 EMD 66684 EXP 063 EXP 929 EXP 3134 EXP 3174 EXP 6155 EXP 6803 EXP 7711 EXP 9270 EXP 9954 FK 739 FR11 53332 GA 0050 GA 0056 HN 65021 HOE 720 HR 720 IC D6888 IC D7155 IC D8731 KR1 1177 KT3 671 KT 3579 KW 3433 L 158809 L 158978 L 159282 MK 996 L 159689 L 159874 L 161177 L 162154 L 162234 L 162441 L 163007 L 163017 LF 70156 LRB 057 LRB 081 LRB 087 LY 235656 LY 266099 LY 285434 LY 301875 LY 302289 LY 315995 ME 3221 MK 954 PD 123177 PD 123319 PD 126055 PD 150304 RG 13647 RWJ 38970 RWJ 46458 S 8307 S 8308 SC 51757 SC 54629 SC 52458 SC 52459 SK 1080 SL 910102 SR 47436 TAK 536 UP 2696 U 96849 U 97018 UK 77778 UP 275 22 WAY 126227 WK 1260 WK 1360 WK 1492 WY 126227 YH 1498 YM 358 YM 31472 X 6803 XH 148 XR 510 ZD 6888 ZD 7155 ZD 8731 ZD 8131 the compounds of ACS registry numbers 133240 46 7 135070 05 2 139958 16 0 145160 84 5 147403 03 0 153806 29 2 439904 54 8P 439904 55 9P 439904 56 0P 439904 57 1P 439904 58 2P 155918 60 8P 155918 61 9P 272438 16 1P 272446 75 0P 223926 77 0P 169281 89 4 165113 17 7P 165113 18 8P 165113 19 9P 165113 20 2P 165113 13 3P 165113 14 4P 165113 15 5P 165113 16 6P 165113 21 3P 165113 22 4P 165113 23 5P 165113 24 6P 165113 25 7P 165113 26 8P 165113 27 9P 165113 28 0P 165113 29 1P 165113 30 4P 165113 31 5P 165113 32 6P 165113 33 7P 165113 34 8P 165113 35 9P 165113 36 0P 165113 37 1P 165113 38 2P 165113 39 3P 165113 40 6P 165113 41 7P 165113 42 8P 165113 43 9P 165113 44 0P 165113 45 1P 165113 46 2P 165113 47 3P 165113 48 4P 165113 49 5P 165113 50 8P 165113 51 9P 165113 52 0P 165113 53 1P 165113 54 2P 165113 55 3P 165113 56 4P 165113 57 5P 165113 58 6P 165113 59 7P 165113 60 0P 165113 61 1P 165113 62 2P 165113 63 3P 165113 64 4P 165113 65 5P 165113 66 6P 165113 67 7P 165113 68 8P 165113 69 9P 165113 70 2P 165113 71 3P 165113 72 4P 165113 73 5P 165113 74 6P 114798 27 5 114798 28 6 114798 29 7 124749 82 2 114798 28 6 124749 84 4 124750 88 5 124750 91 0 124750 93 2 161946 65 2P 161947 47 3P 161947 48 4P 161947 51 9P 161947 52 0P 161947 55 3P 161947 56 4P 161947 60 0P 161947 61 1P 161947 68 8P 161947 69 9P 161947 70 2P 161947 71 3P 161947 72 4P 161947 74 6P 161947 75 7P 161947 81 5P 161947 82 6P 161947 83 7P 161947 84 8P 161947 85 9P 161947 86 0P 161947 87 1P 161947 88 2P 161947 89 3P 161947 90 6P 161947 91 7P 161947 92 8P 161947 93 9P 161947 94 0P 161947 95 1P 161947 96 2P 161947 97 3P 161947 98 4P 161947 99 5P 161948 00 1P 161948 01 2P 161948 O 3P 168686 32 6P 167301 42 0P 166813 82 7P 166961 56 4P 166961 58 6P 158872 96 9P 158872 97 0P 158807 14 8P 158807 15 9P 158807 16 0P 158807 17 1P 158807 18 2P 158807 19 3P 158807 20 6P 155884 08 5P 154749 99 2 167371 59 7P 244126 99 6P 177848 35 0P 141309 82 2P and the like. Suitable angiotensin II antagonists are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the angiotensin II antagonists are candesartan eprosartan irbesartan losartan omlesartan telmisartan or valsartan. In more particular embodiments the candesartan is administered as candesartan cilexetil in an amount of about 15 milligrams to about 100 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the eprosartan is administered as eprosartan mesylate in an amount of about 400 milligrams to about 1600 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the irbesartan is administered in an amount of about 75 milligrams to about 1200 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the losartan is administered as losartan potassium in an amount of about 25 milligrams to about 100 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the omlesartan is administered as omlesartan medoxomil in an amount of about 5 milligrams to about 40 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the telmisartan is administered in an amount of about 20 milligrams to about 80 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the valsartan is administered in an amount of about 80 milligrams to about 320 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day.

Suitable angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors ACE inhibitors include but are not limited to alacepril benazepril LOTENSIN CIBACEN benazeprilat captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril duinapril enalapril enalaprilat fasidotril fosinopril fosinoprilat gemopatrilat glycopril idrapril imidapril lisinopril moexipril moveltipril naphthopidil omapatrilat pentopril perindopril perindoprilat quinapril quinaprilat ramipril ramiprilat rentipril saralasin acetate spirapril temocapril trandolapril trandolaprilat urapidil zofenopril acylmercapto and mercaptoalkanoyl pralines carboxyalkyl dipeptides carboxyalkyl dipeptide phosphinylalkanoyl pralines registry no. 796406 AVE 7688 BP1.137 CHF 1514 E 4030 ER 3295 FPL 66564 MDL 100240 RL 6134 RL 6207 RL 6893 SA 760 S 5590 Z 13752A and the like. Suitable angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Twelfth Edition Version 12 1 1996 and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors are benazepril captopril enalapril fosinopril lisinopril moexipril quinapril ramipril trandolapril or trandolaprilat. In more particular embodiments the benazepril is administered as benazepril hydrochloride in an amount of about 5 milligrams to about 80 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the captopril is administered in an amount of about 12.5 milligrams to about 450 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the enalapril is administered as enalapril maleate in an amount of about 2.5 milligrams to about 40 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the fosinopril is administered as fosinopril sodium in an amount of about 5 milligrams to about 60 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the lisinopril is administered in an amount of about 2.5 milligrams to about 75 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the moexipril is administered as moexipril hydrochloride in an amount of about 7.5 milligrams to about 45 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the quinapril is administered as quinapril hydrochloride in an amount of about 5 milligrams to about 40 milligrams as single or multiple doses per day the ramipril hydrochloride in an amount of about 1.25 milligrams to about 40 milligrams as single or multiple doses per day the trandolapril is administered as in an amount of about 0.5 milligrams to about 4 milligrams as single or multiple doses per day the trandolaprilat is administered as in an amount of about 0.5 milligrams to about 4 milligrams as single or multiple doses per day.

Suitable antioxidants include but are not limited to small molecule antioxidants and antioxidant enzymes. Suitable small molecule antioxidants include but are not limited to hydralazine compounds glutathione vitamin C vitamin E cysteine N acetyl cysteine carotene ubiquinone ubiquinol 10 tocopherols coenzyme Q superoxide dismutase mimetics such as for example 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 1 piperidinyloxy TEMPO DOXYL PROXYL nitroxide compounds 4 hydroxy 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 1 piperidinyloxy Tempol M 40401 M 40403 M 40407 M 40419 M 40484 M 40587 M 40588 and the like. Suitable antioxidant enzymes include but are not limited to superoxide dismutase catalase glutathione peroxidase NADPH oxidase inhibitors such as for example apocynin aminoguanidine ONO 1714 S17834 benzo b pyran 4 one derivative and the like xanthine oxidase inhibitors such as for example allopurinol oxypurinol amflutizole diethyldithiocarbamate 2 styrylchromones chrysin luteolin kaempferol quercetin myricetin isorhamnetin benzophenones such as 2 2 4 4 tetrahydroxybenzophenone 3 4 5 2 3 4 hexahydroxybenzophenone and 4 4 dihydroxybenzophenone benzothiazinone analogues such as 2 amino 4H 1 3 benzothiazine 4 one 2 guanidino 4H 1 3 benzothiazin 4 one and rhodanine N hydroxyguanidine derivative such as PR5 1 3 4 dimethoxy 2 chlorobenzylideneamino 3 hydroxyguanidine 6 formylpterin and the like. The antioxidant enzymes can be delivered by gene therapy as a viral vector and or a non viral vector. Suitable antioxidants are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the antioxidants are apocynin hydralazine compounds and superoxide dimutase mimetics.

Suitable antithrombotic and vasodilator compounds include but are not limited to abciximab acetorphan acetylsalicylic acid argatroban bamethan benfurodil benziodarone betahistine bisaramil brovincamine bufeniode citicoline clobenfurol clopidogrel cyclandelate dalteparin dipyridamol droprenilamine enoxaparin fendiline ifenprodil iloprost indobufen isobogrel isoxsuprine heparin lamifiban midrodine nadroparin nicotinoyl alcohol nylidrin ozagrel perhexyline phenylpropanolamine prenylamine papaveroline reviparin sodium salt ridogrel suloctidil tinofedrine tinzaparin trifusal vintoperol xanthinal niacinate and the like. Suitable antithrombotic and vasodilator compounds are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Suitable adrenergic antagonists include but are not limited to acebutolol alprenolol amosulalol arotinolol atenolol befunolol betaxolol bevantolol bisoprolol bopindolol bucindolol bucumolol bufetolol bufuralol bunitrolol bupranolol butofilolol carazolol capsinolol carteolol carvedilol COREG celiprolol cetamolol cindolol cloranolol dilevalol diprafenone epanolol ersentilide esmolol esprolol hydroxalol indenolol labetalol landiolol laniolol levobunolol mepindolol methylpranol metindol metipranolol metrizoranolol metoprolol moprolol nadolol nadoxolol nebivolol nifenalol nipradilol oxprenolol penbutolol pindolol practolol pronethalol propranolol sotalol sotalohiadolol sulfinalol taliprolol talinolol tertatolol tilisolol timolol toliprolol tomalolol trimepranol xamoterol xibenolol 2 3 1 1 dimethylethyp amino 2 hydroxypropoxy 3 pyridenecarbonitrilHCl 1 butylamino 3 2 5 dichlorophenoxy 2 propanol 1 isopropylamino 3 4 2 cyclopropylmethoxyethyl phenoxy 2 propanol 3 isopropylamino 1 7 methylindan 4 yloxy 2 butanol 2 3 t butylamino 2 hydroxypropylthio 4 5 carbamoyl 2 thienyl thiazol 7 2 hydroxy 3 t butylaminpropoxy phthalide Acc 9369 AMO 140 BIB 16S CP 331684 Fr 172516 ISV 208 L 653328 LM 2616 SB 226552 SR 58894A SR 59230A TZC 5665 UK 1745 YM 430 and the like. Suitable adrenergic antagonists are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the adrenergic antagonists are atenolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol nebivolol propranolol or timolol. In more particular embodiments the atenolol is administered in an amount of about 50 milligrams to about 200 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the bisoprolol is administered as bisoprolol fumarate in an amount of about 2.5 milligrams to about 30 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the carvedilol is administered in an amount of about 3.125 milligrams to about 200 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the metoprolol is administered as metoprolol tartarate or metoprolol succinate in an amount of about 25 milligrams to about 300 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the nebivolol is administered as nebivolol hydrochloride in an amount of about 2.5 milligrams to about 20 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the propranolol is administered as propranolol hydrochloride in an amount of about 40 milligrams to about 240 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the timolol is administered as timolol maleate in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 30 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day.

Suitable calcium channel blockers include but are not limited to amlodipine NORVASC anipamil aranidipine aminone azelnidipine barnidipine bencyclane benidipine bepridil cilnidipine cinnarizine clentiazem diltiazem dotarizine efonidipine elgodipine fantofarone felodipine fendiline flunarizine fluspirilene furnidipine gallopamil ipenoxazone isradipine lacidipine lemildipine lercanidipine lomerizine manidipine mibefradil monatepil nicardipine nifedipine niguldipine niludipine nilvadipine nimodipine nisoldipine nitrendipine nivaldipine oxodipine perhexylene phenyloin phenylprenylamine pranidipine ranolazine ryosidine semotiadil tamolarizine temiverine hydrochloride terodiline tiapamil vatanidipine hydrochloride verapamil ziconotide AE 0047 CAI JTV 519 CHF 1521 L 651582 NS 7 NW 1015 RO 2933 SB 237376 SL 34.0829 08 S 312d SD 3212 TA 993 YM 430 and the like. Suitable calcium channel blockers are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the calcium channel blockers are amlodipine diltiazem isradipine nicardipine nifedipine nimodipine nisoldipine nitrendipine verapamil.

Suitable carbonic anhydrase inhibitors include but are not limited to acetazolamide brinzolamide dorzolamide ethoxzolamide 6 hydroxy 2 benzothiazolesulfonamide methazolamide thiophene sulfonamide an aromatic sulfonamide an ester of 6 hydroxy 2 benzothiazolesulfonamide an ester of 5 hydroxy 2 benzothiazolesulfonamide and the like. Suitable carbonic anhydrase inhibitors are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Suitable diuretics include but are not limited to thiazides such as for example althiazide bendroflumethiazide benzclortriazide benzhydrochlorothiazide benzthiazide buthiazide chlorothiazide cyclopenethiazide cyclothiazide epithiazide ethiazide hydrobenzthiazide hydrochlorothiazide hydroflumethiazide methylclothiazide methylcyclothiazide penflutazide polythiazide teclothiazide trichlormethiazide triflumethazide and the like alilusem ambuside amiloride aminometradine azosemide bemetizide bumetanide butazolamide butizide canrenone carperitide chloraminophenamide chlorazanil chlormerodrin chlorthalidone cicletanide clofenamide clopamide clorexolone conivaptan daglutril dichlorophenamide disulfamide ethacrynic acid ethoxzolamide etozolon fenoldopam fenquizone furosemide indapamide mebutizide mefruside meralluride mercaptomerin sodium mercumallylic acid mersalyl methazolamide meticane metolazone mozavaptan muzolimine N 5 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl acetamide nesiritide pamabrom paraflutizide piretanide protheobromine quinethazone scoparius spironolactone theobromine ticrynafen torsemide torvaptan triamterene tripamide ularitide xipamide or potassium AT 189000 AY 31906 BG 9928 BG 9791 C 2921 DTI 0017 JDL 961 KW 3902 MCC 134 SLV 306 SR 121463 WAY 140288 ZP 120 and the like. Suitable diuretics are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman. The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Depending on the diuretic employed potassium may also be administered to the patient in order to optimize the fluid balance while avoiding hypokalemic alkalosis. The administration of potassium can be in the form of potassium chloride or by the daily ingestion of foods with high potassium content such as for example bananas or orange juice. The method of administration of these compounds is described in further detail in U.S. Pat. No. 4 868 179 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some embodiments the diuretics are amiloride furosemide chlorthalidone hydrochlorothiazide or triamterene. In more particular embodiments the amiloride is administered as amiloride hydrochloride in an amount of about 5 milligrams to about 15 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the furosemide is administered in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 600 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the chlorthalidone is administered in an amount of about 15 milligrams to about 150 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the hydrochlorothiazide is administered in an amount of about 12.5 milligrams to about 300 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the triamterene is administered in an amount of about 35 milligrams to about 225 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day.

Suitable endothelin antagonists include but are not limited to atrasentan bosentan darusentan endothelin enrasentan sitaxsentan sulfonamide endothelin antagonists tezosentan BMS 193884 BQ 123 SQ 28608 and the like. Suitable endothelin antagonists are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

wherein a b and c are independently a single or double bond Rand Rare each independently a hydrogen an alkyl an ester or a heterocyclic ring wherein alkyl ester and heterocyclic rind are as defined herein Rand Rare each independently a lone pair of electrons or a hydrogen with the proviso that at least one of R R Rand Ris not a hydrogen. Exemplary hydralazine compounds include budralazine cadralazine dihydralazine endralazine hydralazine pildralazine todralazine and the like. Suitable hydralazine compounds are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the hydralazine compound is hydralazine or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof such as hydralazine hydrochloride. In more particular embodiments the hydralazine is administered as hydralazine hydrochloride in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 300 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day.

Suitable Hreceptor antagonists include but are not limited to burimamide cimetidine ebrotidin famotidine nizatidine roxatidine rantidine tiotidine and the like. Suitable Hreceptor antagonists are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 Pgs. 901 915 the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and in WO 00 28988 assigned to NitroMed. Inc. the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Suitable neutral endopeptidase inhibitors include but are not limited to atrial natriuretic peptides diazapins azepinones ecadotril fasidotril fasidotrilat omapatrilat sampatrilat BMS 189 921 Z 13752 A and the like. Neutral endopeptidase inhibitors are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Suitable NSAIDs include but are not limited to acetaminophen acemetacin aceclofenac alminoprofen amfenac bendazac benoxaprofen bromfenac bucloxic acid butibufen carprofen cinmetacin clopirac diclofenac etodolac felbinac fenclozic acid fenbufen fenoprofen fentiazac flunoxaprofen flurbiprofen ibufenac ibuprofen indomethacin isofezolac isoxepac indoprofen ketoprofen lonazolac loxoprofen metiazinic acid mofezolac miroprofen naproxen oxaprozin pirozolac pirprofen pranoprofen protizinic acid salicylamide sulindac suprofen suxibuzone tiaprofenic acid tolmetin xenbucin ximoprofen zaltoprofen zomepirac aspirin acemetcin bumadizon carprofenac clidanac diflunisal enfenamic acid fendosal flufenamic acid flunixin gentisic acid ketorolac meclofenamic acid mefenamic acid mesalamine prodrugs thereof and the like. Suitable NSAIDs are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 Pgs. 617 657 the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 057 347 and 6 297 260 assigned to NitroMed. Inc. the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In some embodiments the NSAIDs are acetaminophen diclofenac flurbiprofen ibuprofen indomethacin ketoprofen naproxen or aspirin. In more particular embodiments the acetaminophen is administered in an amount of about 325 milligrams to about 4 grams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the diclofenac is administered in an amount of about 50 milligrams to about 250 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the flurbiprofen is administered in an amount of about 100 milligrams to about 300 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the ibuprofen is administered in an amount of about 400 milligrams to about 3.2 grams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the indomethacin is administered in an amount of about 25 milligrams to about 200 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the ketoprofen is administered in an amount of about 50 milligrams to about 300 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the naproxen is administered in an amount of about 250 milligrams to about 1.5 grams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the aspirin is administered in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 2 grams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day.

Suitable phosphodiesterase inhibitors include but are not limited to filaminast piclamilast rolipram Org 20241 MCI 154 roflumilast toborinone posicar lixazinone zaprinast sildenafil pyrazolopyrimidinones motapizone pimobendan zardaverine siguazodan CI 930 EMD 53998 imazodan saterinone loprinone hydrochloride 3 pyridinecarbonitrile derivatives acefylline albifylline bamifylline denbufyllene diphylline doxofylline etofylline torbafylline theophylline nanterinone pentoxofylline proxyphylline cilostazol cilostamide MS 857 piroximone milrinone aminone tolafentrine dipyridamole papaveroline E4021 thienopyrimidine derivatives triflusal ICOS 351 tetrahydropiperazino 1 2 b beta carboline 1 4 dione derivatives carboline derivatives 2 pyrazolin 5 one derivatives fused pyridazine derivatives quinazoline derivatives anthranilic acid derivatives imidazoquinazoline derivatives tadalafil vardenafil and in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Ed. McGraw Hill Inc. 1995 The Physician s Desk Reference 49th Ed. Medical Economics 1995 Drug Facts and Comparisons 1993 Ed Facts and Comparisons 1993 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and the like. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors and their nitrosated and or nitrosylated derivatives are also disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 932 538 5 994 294 5 874 437 5 958 926 reissued as U.S. Pat. No. RE 037234 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 172 060 6 197 778 6 177 428 6 172 068 6 221 881 6 232 321 6 197 782 6 133 272 6 211 179 6 316 457 and 6 331 542 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Suitable potassium channel blockers include but are not limited to nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim BRL 34915 aprikalim bimakalim emakalim lemakalim minoxidil diazoxide 9 chloro 7 2 chlorophenyl 5H pyrimido 5 4 d 2 benzazepine Ribi CPG 11952 CGS 9896 ZD 6169 diazixide Bay X 9227 P1075 Bay X 9228 SDZ PCO 400 WAY 120 491 WAY 120 129 Ro 31 6930 SR 44869 BRL 38226 S 0121 SR 46142A CGP 42500 SR 44994 artilide fumarate lorazepam temazepam rilmazafone nimetazepam midazolam lormetazepam loprazolam ibutilide fumarate haloxazolam flunitrazepam estazolam doxefazepam clonazepam cinolazepam brotizolam and the like. Suitable potassium channel blockers are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Suitable platelet reducing agents include but are not limited to fibrinolytic agents such as for example ancrod anistreplase bisobrin lactate brinolase Hageman factor i.e. factor XII fragments plasminogen activators such as for example streptokinase tissue plasminogen activators TPA urokinase pro Urokinase recombinant TPA plasmin plasminogen and the like anti coagulant agents including but are not limited to inhibitors of factor Xa factor TFPI factor Vila factor IXc factor Va factor VIIIa inhibitors of other coagulation factors and the like vitamin K antagonists such as for example coumarin coumarin derivatives e.g. warfarin sodium glycosoaminoglycans such as for example heparins both in unfractionated form and in low molecular weight form ardeparin sodium bivalirudin bromindione coumarin dalteparin sodium danaparoid sodium dazoxiben hydrochloride desirudin dicumarol efegatran sulfate enoxaparin sodium ifetroban ifetroban sodium lyapolate sodium nafamostat mesylate phenprocoumon sulfatide tinzaparin sodium retaplase trifenagrel warfarin dextrans and the like abciximab acadesine anipamil argatroban aspirin clopidogrel diadenosine 5 5 P1 P4 tetraphosphate Ap4A analogs difibrotide dilazep dihydrochloride dipyridamole dopamine 3 methoxytyramine glucagon glycoprotein IIb IIIa antagonists such as for example Ro 43 8857 L 700 462 iloprost isocarbacyclin methyl ester itazigrel ketanserin BM 13.177 lamifiban lifarizine molsidomine nifedipine oxagrelate prostaglandins platelet activating factor antagonists such as for example lexipafant prostacyclins pyrazines pyridinol carbamate ReoPro i.e. abciximab sulfinpyrazone synthetic compounds BN 50727 BN 52021 CV 4151 E 5510 FK 409 GU 7 KB 2796 KBT 3022 KC 404 KF 4939 OP 41483 TRK 100 TA 3090 TFC 612 ZK 36374 2 4 5 7 tetrathiaoctane 2 4 5 7 tetrathiaoctane 2 2 dioxide 2 4 5 trithiahexane theophyllin pentoxifyllin thromboxane and thromboxane synthetase inhibitors such as for example picotamide sulotroban ticlopidine tirofiban trapidil ticlopidine trifenagrel trilinolein 3 substituted 5 6 bis 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 triazines antibodies to glycoprotein IIb IIIa anti serotonin drugs such as for example clopridogrel sulfinpyrazone and the like aspirin dipyridamole clofibrate pyridinol carbamate glucagon caffeine theophyllin pentoxifyllin ticlopidine and the like.

Suitable prostaglandins include but are not limited to naturally occurring prostaglandins such as for example arbaprostil alprostadil beraprost bimatoprost carboprost cloprostenol dimoxaprost dinoprost enprostil enisoprost fluprostenol fenprostalene froxiprost gemeprost latanoprost limaprost meteneprost mexiprostil misoprostol misoprost misoprostol acid nocloprost ONO 373 ornoprostil prostalene PGE PGE PGF PGF rioprostil rosaprostol remiprostol sulprostone tafluprost trimoprostil tiprostanide travoprost unoprostone viprostol and viprostol. Suitable prostaglandins are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the prostaglandins are PGE1 cloprostenol fluprostenol latanoprost and travoprost.

Suitable proton pump inhibitors include but are not limited to disulprazole esomeprazole lansoprazole leminoprazole omeprazole pantoprazole rabeprazole timoprazole tenatoprazole 2 2 benzimidazolyl pyridine tricyclic imidazole thienopydidine benzimidazole fluoroalkoxy substituted benzimidazole dialkoxy benzimidazole N substituted 2 pyridylalkenesulfinyl benzimidazole cycloheptenepyridine 5 pyrrolyl 2 pyridylmethylsulfinyl benzimidazole alkylsulfinyl benzimidazole fluoropyridylmethylsulfinyl benzimidazole imidazo 4 5 b pydridine RO 18 5362 IY 81149 4 amino 3 carbonyl quinoline 4 amino 3 acylnaphthyride 4 aminoquinoline 4 amino 3 acylquinoline 3 butyryl 4 2 methylphenylamino 8 2 hydroxyethoxy quinoline quinazoline tetrahydroisoquinolin 2 yl pyrimidine YH 1885 3 substituted 1 2 4 thiadiazolo 4 5 a benzimidazole 3 substituted imidazo 1 2 d thiadiazole 2 sulfinylnicotinamide pyridylsulfinylbenz imidazole pyridylsulfinyl thieno imidazole theinoimidazole toluidine 4 5 dihydrooxazole thienoimidazole toluidine Hoe 731 imidazo 1 2 a pyridine pyrrolo 2 3 b pyridine and the like. Suitable proton pump inhibitors are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 the Merck Index 13Edition and in WO 00 50037 assigned to NitroMed. Inc. the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Suitable renin inhibitors include but are not limited to aldosterone aliskiren SPP 100 ditekiren enalkrein A 64662 medullipin terlkiren tonin zankiren RO 42 5892 remikiren A 62198 A 64662 A 65317 A 69729 A 72517 zankiren A 74273 CP 80794 CGP 29287 CGP 38560A EMD 47942 ES 305 ES1005 ES 8891 FK 906 FK 744 H 113 H 142 KR11314 pepstatin A RO 44 9375 ciprokiren RO 42 5892 RO 66 1132 RO 66 1168 SP 500 SP 800 SR 43845 SQ 34017 U 71038 YM 21095 YM 26365 urea derivatives of peptides amino acids connected by nonpeptide bonds di and tri peptide derivatives e.g. Act A Act B Act C ACT D and the like amino acids and derivatives thereof diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls modified peptides peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates monoclonal antibodies to renin. Suitable renin inhibitors are described more fully in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 116 835 5 114 937 5 106 835 5 104 869 5 095 119 5 098 924 5 095 006 5 089 471 5 075 451 5 066 643 5 063 208 4 845 079 5 055 466 4 980 283 4 885 292 4 780 401 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

Suitable COX 2 inhibitors include but are not limited to nimesulide celecoxib CELEBREX etoricoxib ARCOXIA flosulide lumiracoxib PREXIG COX 189 parecoxib DYNSTAT rofecoxib VIOXX tiracoxib JTE 522 valdecoxib BEXTRA ABT 963 BMS 347070 CS 502 DuP 697 GW 406381 NS 386 SC 57666 SC 58125 SC 58635 and the like and mixtures of two or more thereof. Suitable COX 2 inhibitors are in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 344 991 5 380 738 5 393 790 5 409 944 5 434 178 5 436 265 5 466 823 5 474 995 5 510 368 5 536 752 5 550 142 5 552 422 5 604 253 5 604 260 5 639 780 5 932 598 and 6 633 272 and in WO 94 03387 WO 94 15723 WO 94 20480 WO 94 26731 WO 94 27980 WO 95 00501 WO 95 15316 WO 96 03387 WO 96 03388 WO 96 06840 WO 96 21667 WO 96 31509 WO 96 36623 WO 97 14691 WO 97 16435 WO 01 45703 and WO 01 87343 the disclosures of each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM Thirteenth Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

In some embodiments the COX 2 inhibitors are celecoxib etoracoxib lumiracoxib paracoxib rofecoxib or valdecoxib. In more particular embodiments the celecoxib is administered in an amount of about 100 milligrams to about 800 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the etoricoxib is administered in an amount of about 50 milligrams to about 200 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the lumiracoxib is administered in an amount of about 40 milligrams to about 1200 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the paracoxib is administered in an amount of about 20 milligrams to about 100 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the rofecoxib is administered in an amount of about 12.5 milligrams to about 50 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day the valdecoxib is administered in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 40 milligrams as a single dose or as multiple doses per day.

Suitable steroids include but are not limited to 21 acetoxypregnenolone alcolometasone algestone amcinonide beclomethasone betamethasone budesonide chlorprednisone clobetasol clobentasone clocortolone cloprednol corticosterone cortisine corticazol cortivatol deflazacort desonide desoximetasone dexamethasone diflorasone diflucortolone difluprednate enoxolone fluzacort flucloronide flumethasone flunisolide flucinolone acetonide fluocininide fluocortin butyl fluocortolone fluorometholone fluperolone acetate fluprednidene acetate fluprednisolone flurandrenolide fluticasone propionate fluticasone propionate formocortal halcinonide halobetasol propionate halometasone haloprednone acetate hydrocortamate hydrocortisone and its derivatives such as phosphate 21 sodium succinate and the like hydrocortisone terbutate isoflupredone loteprednol etabonate mazipredone medrysone meprednisone methylprednisolone mometasone furoate paremethasone prednicarbate prednisolone and its derivatives such as 21 stearoylglycolate sodium phosphate and the like prednisone prednival prednylidene and its derivatives such as 21 diethylaminoactetate and the like rimexolone tixocortol trimcinolone and its derivatives such as acetonide benetonide and the like and the like. Suitable NSAIDs are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 Pgs. 617 657 the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 057 347 and 6 297 260 assigned to NitroMed. Inc. the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Suitable compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma include but are not limited to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors such as for example citicoline donepezil heptatigmine galantamine metafonate physostignine rivastignine tarcine velnacrine and the like carbachol pilocarpine and the like. Suitable compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma are described more fully in the literature such as in Goodman and Gilman The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 9th Edition McGraw Hill 1995 and the Merck Index on CD ROM 13Edition and on STN Express file phar and file registry.

The invention provides compositions comprising i a nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof ii a nitric oxide enhancing compound such as isosorbide dinitrate and or isosorbide mononitrate preferably isosorbide dinitrate and i a hydralazine compound such as hydralazine hydrochloride . In one embodiment the hydralazine hydrochloride can be administered in an amount of about 30 milligrams per day to about 400 milligrams per day the isosorbide dinitrate can be administered in an amount of about 10 milligrams per day to about 200 milligrams per day or the isosorbide mononitrate can be administered in an amount of about 5 milligrams per day to about 120 milligrams per day. In another embodiment the hydralazine hydrochloride can be administered in an amount of about 50 milligrams per day to about 300 milligrams per day the isosorbide dinitrate can be administered in an amount of about 20 milligrams per day to about 160 milligrams per day or the isosorbide mononitrate can be administered in an amount of about 15 milligrams per day to about 100 milligrams per day. In yet another embodiment the hydralazine hydrochloride can be administered in an amount of about 37.5 milligrams to about 75 milligrams one to four times per day the isosorbide dinitrate can be administered in an amount of about 20 milligrams to about 40 milligrams one to four times per day or the isosorbide mononitrate can be administered in an amount of about 10 milligrams to about 20 milligrams one to four times per day. In another embodiment of the methods of the invention the patient can be administered a composition comprising about 225 mg hydralazine hydrochloride and about 120 mg isosorbide dinitrate once per day i.e. q.d. . In another embodiment of the methods of the invention the patient can be administered a composition comprising about 112.5 mg hydralazine hydrochloride and about 60 mg isosorbide dinitrate twice per day i.e. b.i.d. . In another embodiment of the methods of the invention the patient can be administered a composition comprising about 56.25 mg hydralazine hydrochloride and about 30 mg isosorbide dinitrate twice per day i.e. b.i.d. . In another embodiment of the methods of the invention the patient can be administered a composition comprising about 75 mg hydralazine hydrochloride and about 40 mg isosorbide dinitrate three times per day i.e. t.i.d. . In another embodiment of the methods of the invention the patient can be administered a composition comprising about 37.5 mg hydralazine hydrochloride and about 20 mg isosorbide dinitrate three times per day i.e. t.i.d. . The particular amounts of hydralazine and isosorbide dinitrate or isosorbide mononitrate can be administered as a single dose once a day or in multiple doses several times throughout the day or as a sustained release oral formulation or as an injectable formulation.

The invention provides methods for treating ophthalmic disorders by administering to the patient in need thereof an effective amount of the compounds and or compositions described herein. For example the patient can be administered an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound In another embodiment the patient can be administered an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound. In yet another embodiment the patient can be administered an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and at least one therapeutic agent including but not limited to such as for example aldosterone antagonists adrenergic receptor agonists adrenergic receptor antagonists adrenergic agonists antidiabetic compounds antimicrobial compounds anti hyperlipidemic drugs angiotensin H antagonists angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors antioxidants antithrombotic and vasodilator drugs adrenergic antagonists calcium channel blockers carbonic anhydrase inhibitors diuretics endothelin antagonists hydralazine compounds Hreceptor antagonists neutral endopeptidase inhibitors nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compounds NSAIDs phosphodiesterase inhibitors potassium channel blockers platelet reducing agents prostaglandins proton pump inhibitors renin inhibitors selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors steroids compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma and combinations of two or more thereof. In another embodiment the patient can be administered an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and at least one therapeutic agent and at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound. In one embodiment the ophthalmic disorder is glaucoma elevated ocular pressure macular degeneration ophthalmic infection dry eye disorder ocular hypertension and diabetic retinopathy. The nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds nitric oxide enhancing compounds and or therapeutic agents can be administered separately or as components of the same composition in one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

The invention provides methods for treating cerebrovascular disorders treating cardiovascular disorders treating benign prostatic hyperplasia BPH treating peptic ulcers treating sexual dysfunctions and inducing abortions by administering to the patient in need thereof an effective amount of the compounds and or compositions described herein. For example the patient can be administered an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound In another embodiment the patient can be administered an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound. In yet another embodiment the patient can be administered an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and at least one therapeutic agent including but not limited to such as for example aldosterone antagonists adrenergic receptor agonists adrenergic receptor antagonists adrenergic agonists antidiabetic compounds antimicrobial compounds anti hyperlipidemic drugs angiotensin II antagonists angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors antioxidants antithrombotic and vasodilator drugs adrenergic antagonists calcium channel blockers carbonic anhydrase inhibitors diuretics endothelin antagonists hydralazine compounds Hreceptor antagonists neutral endopeptidase inhibitors nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compounds NSAIDs phosphodiesterase inhibitors potassium channel blockers platelet reducing agents prostaglandins proton pump inhibitors renin inhibitors selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors steroids compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma and combinations of two or more thereof. In another embodiment the patient can be administered an effective amount of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and at least one therapeutic agent and at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound. The nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compounds nitric oxide enhancing compounds and or therapeutic agents can be administered separately or as components of the same composition in one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.

When administered separately the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound nitric oxide enhancing compound and or therapeutic agent can be administered about the same time as part of the overall treatment regimen i.e. as a combination therapy. About the same time includes administering the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound simultaneously sequentially at the same time at different times on the same day or on different days as long as they are administered as part of an overall treatment regimen i.e. combination therapy or a therapeutic cocktail.

When administered in vivo the compounds and compositions of the invention can be administered in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and in dosages described herein. When the compounds and compositions of the invention are administered as a combination of at least one nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and or at least one nitric oxide enhancing compound and or therapeutic agent they can also be used in combination with one or more additional compounds which are known to be effective against the specific disease state targeted for treatment. The nitric oxide enhancing compounds therapeutic agents and or other additional compounds can be administered simultaneously with subsequently to or prior to administration of the nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound.

The compounds of the invention can be incorporated into various types of pharmaceutical compositions such as for example ophthalmic formulations for delivery to the eye e.g. topically intracamerally or via an implant . The compounds are preferably incorporated into topical ophthalmic formulations such as for example solutions suspensions gels ointments implants and the like. The compounds of the invention may be combined with opthalmologically acceptable preservatives viscosity enhancers penetration enhancers buffers sodium chloride water to form an aqueous sterile ophthalmic suspensions or solutions and the like.

Suitable preservatives include but are not limited to benzalkonium chloride thimerosal chlorobutanol methyl paraben propyl paraben phenylethyl alcohol edetate disodium sorbic acid ONAMER and the like. The preservatives are typically employed at a concentration between about 0.001 and about 1.0 by weight. Appropriate co solvents include but are not limited to Polysorbate 20 60 and 80 Pluronic F 68 F 84 and P 103 Tyloxapol Cremophor EL sodium dodecyl sulfate glycerol PEG 400 propylene glycol cyclodextrins and the like. The co solvents are typically employed at a concentration between about 0.01 and about 2 by weight. Viscosity enhancers are required as a viscosity greater than that of simple aqueous solutions may be desirable to increase ocular absorption of the active compound to decrease variability in dispensing the formulations to decrease physical separation of components of a suspension or emulsion of formulation and or otherwise to improve the ophthalmic formulation. Suitable viscosity enhancers include but are not limited to polyvinyl alcohol methyl cellulose hydroxy propyl carboxymethyl cellulose hydroxymethylcellulose hydroxyethylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose methylcellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone and the like. Gelling agents can also be used including but not limited to gellan and xanthan gum and the like. Viscosity enhancers are typically employed at a concentration between about 0.01 and about 2 by weight.

Ophthalmic solution formulations may be prepared by dissolving a compound in a physiologically acceptable isotonic aqueous buffer. Alternatively the ophthalmic solution may include an opthalmologically acceptable surfactant to assist in dissolving the compound. Additionally for sterile ophthalmic ointment formulations the compounds of the invention may be combined with a preservative in an appropriate vehicle such as mineral oil liquid lanolin or white petrolatum. Sterile ophthalmic gel formulations may be prepared by suspending the active ingredient in a hydrophilic base prepared from the combination of for example carbopol 974 and the like.

Various delivery systems are known and can be used to administer the compounds or compositions of the invention including for example encapsulation in liposomes microbubbles emulsions microparticles microcapsules and the like. The required dosage can be administered as a single unit or in a sustained release form.

The bioavailability of the compositions can be enhanced by micronization of the formulations using conventional techniques such as grinding milling spray drying and the like in the presence of suitable excipients or agents such as phospholipids or surfactants.

Sustained release dosage forms of the invention may comprise microparticles and or nanoparticles having a therapeutic agent dispersed therein or may comprise the therapeutic agent in pure preferably crystalline solid form. For sustained release administration micro particle dosage forms comprising pure crystalline therapeutic agents. The therapeutic dosage forms of this aspect of the invention may be of any configuration suitable for sustained release.

Nanoparticle sustained release therapeutic dosage forms are preferably biodegradable and optionally bind to the vascular smooth muscle cells and enter those cells primarily by endocytosis. The biodegradation of the nanoparticles occurs over time e.g. 30 to 120 days or 10 to 21 days in prelysosomic vesicles and lysosomes. Larger microparticle therapeutic dosage forms of the invention release the therapeutic agents for subsequent target cell uptake with only a few of the smaller microparticles entering the cell by phagocytosis. A practitioner in the art will appreciate that the precise mechanism by which a target cell assimilates and metabolizes a dosage form of the invention depends on the morphology physiology and metabolic processes of those cells. The size of the particle sustained release therapeutic dosage forms is also important with respect to the mode of cellular assimilation. For example the smaller nanoparticles can flow with the interstitial fluid between cells and penetrate the infused tissue. The larger microparticles tend to be more easily trapped interstitially in the infused primary tissue and thus are useful to deliver anti proliferative therapeutic agents.

Particular sustained release dosage forms of the invention comprise biodegradable microparticles or nanoparticles. More particularly biodegradable microparticles or nanoparticles are formed of a polymer containing matrix that biodegrades by random nonenzymatic hydrolytic scissioning to release therapeutic agent thereby forming pores within the particulate structure.

The compounds and compositions of the invention can be formulated as pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include for example alkali metal salts and addition salts of free acids or free bases. The nature of the salt is not critical provided that it is pharmaceutically acceptable. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts may be prepared from an inorganic acid or from an organic acid. Examples of such inorganic acids include but are not limited to hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic nitric carbonic sulfuric and phosphoric acid and the like. Appropriate organic acids include but are not limited to aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids such as for example formic acetic propionic succinic glycolic gluconic lactic malic tartaric citric ascorbic glucuronic maleic fumaric pyruvic aspartic glutamic benzoic anthranilic mesylic salicylic p hydroxybenzoic phenylacetic mandelic embonic pamoic methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic benzenesulfonic pantothenic toluenesulfonic 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic sulfanilic stearic algenic hydroxybutyric cyclohexylaminosulfonic galactaric and galacturonic acid and the like. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include but are not limited to metallic salts made from aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc or organic salts made from primary secondary and tertiary amines cyclic amines N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine and the like. All of these salts may be prepared by conventional means from the corresponding compound by reacting for example the appropriate acid or base with the compound. In one embodiment the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the invention do not include the nitrate salt.

While individual needs may vary determination of optimal ranges for effective amounts of the compounds and or compositions is within the skill of the art. Generally the dosage required to provide an effective amount of the compounds and compositions which can be adjusted by one of ordinary skill in the art will vary depending on the age health physical condition sex diet weight extent of the dysfunction of the recipient frequency of treatment and the nature and scope of the dysfunction or disease medical condition of the patient the route of administration pharmacological considerations such as the activity efficacy pharmacokinetic and toxicology profiles of the particular compound used whether a drug delivery system is used and whether the compound is administered as part of a drug combination.

The amount of a given prostaglandin compound of the invention compound comprising at least one nitric oxide enhancing group that will be effective in the treatment of a particular disorder or condition will depend on the nature of the disorder or condition and can be determined by standard clinical techniques including reference to Goodman and Gilman supra The Physician s Desk Reference Medical Economics Company Inc. Oradell N.J. 1995 and Drug Facts and Comparisons Inc. St. Louis Mo. 1993. The precise dose to be used in the formulation will also depend on the route of administration and the seriousness of the disease or disorder and should be decided by the physician and the patient s circumstances.

The invention also provides pharmaceutical kits comprising one or more containers filled with one or more of the ingredients of the pharmaceutical compounds and or compositions of the invention including at least one or more of the novel nitric oxide enhancing prostaglandin compound and one or more of the nitric oxide enhancing compounds described herein. Associated with such kits can be additional therapeutic agents or compositions e.g. aldosterone antagonists adrenergic receptor agonists adrenergic receptor antagonists adrenergic agonists antidiabetic compounds antimicrobial compounds anti hyperlipidemic drugs angiotensin II antagonists angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors antioxidants antithrombotic and vasodilator drugs adrenergic antagonists calcium channel blockers carbonic anhydrase inhibitors diuretics endothelin antagonists hydralazine compounds Hreceptor antagonists neutral endopeptidase inhibitors nonsteroidal antiinflammatory compounds NSAIDs phosphodiesterase inhibitors potassium channel blockers platelet reducing agents prostaglandins proton pump inhibitors renin inhibitors selective cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors steroids compounds used for the treatment of glaucoma and combinations of two or more thereof devices for administering the compositions and notices in the form prescribed by a governmental agency regulating the manufacture use or sale of pharmaceuticals or biological products which reflects approval by the agency of manufacture use or sale for humans.

The disclosure of each patent patent application and publication cited or described in the present specification is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Although the invention has been set forth in detail one skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous changes and modifications can be made to the invention and that such changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

