---

title: Underwater vehicle
abstract: An underwater vehicle is provided with facility for affixing to and maintaining station on a hull of another marine vehicle. The underwater vehicle includes a hull with a propulsion means for movement underwater. Maneuvering planes are mounted on the hull. Body panels are movably fixed to the hull and are moveable from first positions in which the panels conform to a shape of the hull to second positions in which the panels extend outwardly from the hull and toward the other marine vehicle, free edges of the panels being engageable with the other marine vehicle to deter flow of water between the underwater vehicle hull and the other marine vehicle and guide flow of water around the underwater vehicle hull to pin the underwater vehicle against the other marine vehicle hull.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07631611&OS=07631611&RS=07631611
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07631611
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070821
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to underwater vehicles which can be unmanned and untethered and more particularly to an underwater vehicle having facility for affixing to and maintaining station on an underwater hull portion of another marine vehicle.

Underwater vehicles are known and are used for a variety of missions including anti mine operations oceanographic analysis reconnaissance intelligence gathering and tracking of marine vehicles. These vehicles can be either manned or more commonly unmanned. Retrieval of underwater vehicles which have completed their missions has heretofore involved a submarine or other naval vessel maneuvering alongside the underwater vehicle and mechanically grabbing the underwater vehicle. Maneuvering a submarine is much more difficult than maneuvering an underwater vehicle. In addition the underwater vehicle is sometimes in high sea states or near dangerous coastal obstacles. Maintaining stealth is more difficult with a large submarine than with an underwater vehicle. Accordingly there is a need for an underwater vehicle which can maneuver to engage a retrieving vehicle whether submarine or surface vessel and cling to the hull of the retrieving vehicle until the retrieving vehicle reaches a safe location for removal of the underwater vehicle.

An object of the invention is therefore to provide an underwater vehicle having facility for maneuvering alongside a retrieving vehicle engaging the hull of the retrieving vehicle and clinging to the hull of the retrieving vehicle until removal therefrom.

With the above and other objects in view a feature of the present invention is the provision of an underwater vehicle having facility for affixing to and maintaining station on a hull of another marine vehicle. The underwater vehicle comprises a self powered hull for movement underwater and maneuvering planes mounted on the hull for effecting changes in course when the underwater vehicle is underway. Body panels are movably fixed to the hull and moveable from first positions in which the panels conform to the hull shape to second positions in which the panels extend outwardly from the hull and toward an engagement region of the other marine vehicle. Free edges of the panels are engageable with the hull of the other marine vehicle to deter flow of water between the underwater vehicle hull and the hull of the other marine vehicle and guide flow of water around the underwater vehicle hull to pin the underwater vehicle against the other marine vehicle hull.

In accordance with a further feature of the invention there is provided an underwater vehicle having facility for affixing to and maintaining station on a hull of another marine vehicle. The underwater vehicle comprises a self powered hull for movement underwater and maneuvering planes mounted on the hull for effecting changes in course when the underwater vehicle is underway. Arms are pivotally mounted on the underwater vehicle hull such that in a non extended condition the arms are disposed within an outboard surface of the underwater vehicle hull. The arms are extendible from the underwater vehicle hull upon the underwater vehicle hull engaging the hull of the other marine vehicle. The arms engage the hull of the other marine vehicle and generally conform to an outside configuration of the hull of the other marine vehicle. Attachment devices are fixed to the arms to engage the hull of the other marine vehicle and hold the underwater vehicle on the hull of the other marine vehicle.

In accordance with a still further feature of the invention there is provided an underwater vehicle having facility for affixing to and maintaining station on a hull of another marine vehicle. The underwater vehicle comprises a self powered hull for movement underwater and maneuvering planes mounted on the hull for effecting changes in course when the underwater vehicle is underway. An engagement side of the underwater vehicle hull is of a concave configuration an engagement portion of the hull of the other marine vehicle is of a convex configuration and the remainder of the underwater vehicle hull is of a convex configuration. Water flowing over the remainder of the underwater vehicle hull pins the engagement side of the underwater vehicle hull against the engagement portion of the hull of the other marine vehicle.

The above and other features of the invention including various novel details of construction and combinations of parts will now be more particularly described with reference to the accompanying drawings and pointed out in the claims. It will be understood that the particular devices embodying the invention are shown by way of illustration only and not as limitations of the invention. The principles and features of this invention may be employed in various and numerous embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention.

Referring to it will be seen that an illustrative underwater vehicle comprises an elongated hull having maneuvering planes mounted thereon typically on opposite sides of the hull one side seen in and moveable to effect course changes of the vehicle . The maneuvering planes typically include bow planes and stern planes . The underwater vehicle is self propelled and contains a guidance system responsive to preprogramming and electronic instructions received from a controlling station.

After completion of a mission by the underwater vehicle the underwater vehicle may be guided into position alongside a retrieving vessel . See . The bow and stern planes and are moved by the control system not shown to bring the hull of the underwater vehicle into engagement with an underwater hull portion of the retrieving vessel .

Upon engagement of the underwater vehicle with the retrieving vessel the underwater vehicle deploys a forward panel and a free edge of which engages the hull . The panel is curved in such a manner as to direct the flow of water along the side of the hull around the underwater vehicle hull rather than between the underwater vehicle hull and the retrieving vessel hull . Such flow tends to pin the underwater vehicle against the hull of the vessel .

To further assist in pinning the underwater vehicle to the vessel the underwater vehicle is provided with side panels which extend from the underwater vehicle and have free edges which engage the hull . The side panels further direct water flow around the underwater vehicle and substantially block flow between the underwater vehicle and the retrieving vessel. The panels conform to the shape of the underwater vehicle hull when not extended as shown in . The free edges of the panels generally conform to the shape of the retrieving vessel hull when the panels are extended. Panels can be extended by electrical mechanical pneumatic or hydraulic actuators means known in the art.

Referring to it will be seen that in an alternative embodiment the underwater vehicle is provided with a pair of annular recesses in which are disposed respectively linkage arms and . The linkage arms are spring biased such that upon release from their recesses which occurs upon engagement of the underwater vehicle hull with the retrieving vessel hull the arms spring outwardly in the direction of arrows in to engage the hull as shown in . The linkages of the arms permit the arms to conform to the configuration of the hull .

To enable the underwater vehicle to remain fastened to the retrieving vehicle hull the linkage arms are provided with attachment devices which may comprise magnetic devices spikes or the like. The magnetic devices anchor securely to steel structures such as submarine hulls. Magnetic devices can be electromagnets. The spikes are useful with respect to soft submarine coverings. An attachment region having improved attachment characteristics can be provided on the retrieving vehicle.

As shown in a plurality of pairs of arms may be used to insure that a proper grasping feature is engageable with a hull whose structure is unknown.

In an alternative arrangement of arms and is shown in which the arms move oppositely from directions shown in but accomplish the same tasks in much the same manner.

It will be apparent that the features of may be combined with the features of it being necessary to provide a plurality of side panels on each side panel side of the underwater vehicle hull rather than the one long panel shown in to accommodate the recesses for the linkage arms 

Referring to it will be seen that in a still further embodiment of the invention an engagement side of the underwater vehicle hull is of a concave configuration and an engagement portion of the hull of the retrieving vehicle is of a convex configuration. The remainder of the underwater vehicle hull is of a convex configuration. Further the nose or bow portion of the underwater vehicle is angled asymmetrically so as to direct a water stream over the remainder of the underwater vehicle hull . Thus water flowing over the remainder of the hull pins the engagement side of the underwater vehicle against the engagement portion of the hull of the retrieving vehicle .

There is thus provided an underwater vehicle having facility for maneuvering alongside a retrieving vehicle as by manipulation of bow and stern planes for engaging a hull surface of the retrieving vehicle and for pinning the underwater vehicle to the retrieving vehicle hull.

Subsequently the underwater vehicle can be removed from the hull of the retrieving vehicle. Alternatively the underwater vehicle may be used as a guided mine which attaches to the hull of an enemy ship and detonates to open a large hole in the hull of the host ship. It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principles and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

