---

title: Systems and methods for modularizing data flows
abstract: Systems, devices, and methods for modularizing data flows and for providing stand-alone execution of incomplete data flows are provided based on an improved data warehousing framework. Data flow modularization and code reuse is improved through the use of the disclosed flowlets and allows for consistent and efficient standalone testing of incomplete data flows. The disclosed details enable various refinements and modifications according to system design considerations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860905&OS=07860905&RS=07860905
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07860905
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070830
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 913 806 filed on Apr. 24 2007 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF MODULARIZING DATA FLOWS the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to data warehousing tools and more specifically to modularization and execution of reusable data flow components.

Data warehousing databases were developed to meet a growing demand for management information and analysis that could not be met by operational database systems. While operational systems are optimized for simplicity and speed of modification e.g. online transaction processing through heavy use of database normalization and an entity relationship model the data warehouse is optimized for reporting and analysis e.g. online analytical processing . As a result operational systems were unable to meet the need for management information for such reasons as the increased processing load of reporting which negatively impacted the response time of the operational systems. Moreover development of reports in operational systems often required writing specific computer programs which was slow and expensive.

The critical factor leading to the use of a data warehouse is desire for a data analyst to be able to perform complex queries and analyses e.g. data mining on the information without slowing down the operational systems. There are many advantages to using a data warehouse such as the enhanced end user access to a wide variety of data and increased ability of business decision makers to obtain various kinds of trend reports e.g. the item with the most sales in a geographical area for the last two years . Advantageously a data warehouse can be a significant enabler of commercial business applications most notably customer relationship management applications.

A critical process in any data warehousing scenario is the Data Extraction Transformation and Load ETL Process. ETL involves such tasks as extracting data from outside sources transforming it to fit business needs and ultimately loading it into the data warehouse. While an ETL process can be created using almost any programming language creating them from scratch is quite complex requiring high levels of technical expertise with little opportunity to reuse existing code bases. Increasingly companies have been seeking ETL tools to help in the creation of ETL processes. One example of such a tool is MICROSOFT s SQL Server Integration Services SSIS which provides a platform to build data integration and workflow applications.

In SSIS the core ETL functions are performed within Data Flow Tasks . A Data Flow Task is an SSIS executable element responsible for transferring and transforming data between heterogeneous data sources. It is the most important among SSIS executable elements and it has its own complex logical structure with a specialized object model. A Data Flow consists of components and paths that connect the two. Together paths and components build the data flow execution graph that controls the flow of data. The state of this graph is controlled by a module called data flow or Pipeline layout.

Accordingly data flows in SSIS are built using components that define the sources that data comes from the destinations that the data gets loaded to and the transformations applied to data during the transfer. To be used in a dataflow these source destination and transformation components have to be configured by defining the associated metadata. A complete data flow describes the flow of data by specifying one or more source points that start the flow operations downstream of the source points that operate on the data or direct the flow e.g. merging or splitting the flow and one or more destination points that sink the data at the ends of the flow.

However like previous data warehousing platforms the existing SSIS data flow architecture does not offer the possibility of reusing parts of previously configured data flow components except through a crude copy and paste functionality. For example the copy and paste functionality alone is not sufficient to address the reusability problem because it does not offer any capability to manage pieces of reusable logic. Furthermore even with the ability to copy and paste portions of reusable logic additional remapping of metadata and manual fix ups are still required which does not mitigate the expense and required level of expertise to rapidly develop new data flows. Additionally complex data flows could easily consist of hundreds of components. Currently those components have to be placed within a single data flow and there is no way to group or modularize them.

Another problem with existing architectures is the inability to address data flow scenarios where only partial portions of the flow are known such as in the case of a reusable logic portion for example. Such reusable logic portions can have one or more source or destination points that are unknown or are unavailable can have one or more operations within the flow that are unknown or any combination of these conditions. Such incomplete data flows cannot be executed on their own. For example there is no convenient and consistent way to provide standalone execution of such incomplete data flows without significant effort to provide test input sources and output destinations or provide manual fix ups.

Accordingly in consideration of the complexity costs and high level of expertise required to reuse portions of ETL logic it would be desirable to provide a convenient way to generate manage and reuse modular portions of dataflow logic. It is further desirable to provide a way for standalone execution such incomplete data flows. These and other deficiencies in the state of the art of data warehousing tools will become apparent from the description of the various exemplary non limiting embodiments of the invention set forth below.

The following presents a simplified summary of the claimed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In consideration of the foregoing the invention provides an approach to generate and execute modular reusable data flow modules hereinafter known as flowlets . In accordance with the embodiments described herein flowlets can have one or more source or destination points that are unknown or are unavailable can have one or more operations within the flow that are unknown or they can have any combination of these conditions. Flowlets can address the above problems and can allow an iterative approach in building SSIS data flows by allowing pieces of the data flow logic to be built and tested separately through a stand alone execution process.

Furthermore flowlets can consist of single or many data flow components configured to process data sets defined by its published metadata. These components can form a common logic that can be used and reused in many different data flows. The modular data flow design paradigm enabled by flowlets can further help standardize processes around designing and deploying ETL logic allow central storage of flowlet libraries and provides ease of maintenance. Furthermore flowlets can be managed deployed executed and tested with great flexibility and modularity in accordance with the disclosed embodiments to allow efficient and convenient reuse of portions of data flow logic.

According to one aspect of the invention the SSIS data flow object model is modified and extended to support the use of flowlets.

According to a further aspect of the invention a new type of a data flow designer is provided to present flowlet diagrams create and edit flowlet definitions and view associated flowlet information.

According to a further aspect of the invention a new package type to hold the flowlet definitions is provided.

According to a further aspect of the invention the new features enabled by the use of flowlet modules in the SSIS data flows can be blended in with the current data flow layout architecture to preserve existing objects and interfaces while implementing new functionality by adding new flowlet components. Accordingly new components e.g. Flowlet Source Flowlet Destination Flowlet Reference and Flowlet Metadata Mapping can be used to support flowlet specific features. Additionally new interfaces can expose new behavior of flowlet components to designers e.g. a flowlet reference component can implement an additional interface to support connecting to flowlet definitions caching enumerating and refreshing the flowlet internals .

According to a further aspect of the invention enhanced debugging and logging capability is provided to support the use of flowlets in data flows.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the claimed subject matter may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinguishing features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the claimed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

As discussed in the background the SSIS core ETL functions are performed within Data Flow Tasks . Data flows in SSIS are built using components that define the sources that data comes from the destinations it gets loaded to and the transformations applied to data during the transfer.

Referring to an example of a complete data flow  A describes the flow of data by specifying one or more source points that start the flow operations   downstream of the source points that operate on the data or direct the flow e.g. merging or splitting the flow and one or more destination points   that sink the data at the ends of the flow. Portions of the data flow e.g. incomplete data flows or Flowlets can be formed from data flow scenarios where only partial portions of the flow are known such as in the case of a reusable logic portion for example. Referring to such reusable logic portions  B can have one or more source or destination points that are unknown or are unavailable can have one or more operations within the flow that are unknown   or any combination of these conditions indicated by empty dashed line blocks in . Traditionally such incomplete data flows cannot be executed on their own without accounting for the missing or unknown source points destination points and or operations. As described in detail below the invention provides special source and destination flowlet components to enable stand alone execution of such incomplete data flows.

According to one aspect of the invention an improved data flow designer is provided to enable editing of flowlet definitions similar to the current SSIS data flow designer. However additional capabilities are provided to design or create new flowlet definitions for all data flow constructs e.g. components . In addition to providing access to the new Flowlet Source and Destination components the data flow designer provides access to connection managers variables to provide similar full fidelity experience as the existing SSIS data flow designer. Moreover the provided designer enables editing capabilities e.g. modify of existing flowlet definitions to change its behavior.

According to a further aspect of the invention the new data flow designer provides the ability to execute flowlet definitions in separation e.g. stand alone execution and show the execution progress.

According to one aspect of the invention the use of such flowlet source and destination components as functional placeholders for unavailable source and destination points advantageously allows the flowlets to be executed and tested as stand alone data flows. Furthermore the flowlet source and destination components can serve as connection points which provide the basis for allowing the stand alone execution of the flowlet to be incorporated into other data flows. According to a further aspect of the invention such stand alone data flows can be connected together as is by their respective flowlet source and destination components with other data flows.

According to one aspect of the invention a Flowlet Source component is provided which has a single output. Output columns on the flowlet source output will define metadata of the columns entering the flowlet scope from the outer data flow. The flowlet source can produce sample data for the columns defined on it. The flowlet source is able to generate data for all available data types.

As described above a flowlet source component feeds the data flow with data to start the execution at points of origin. According to a further aspect of the invention developers of data flows can customize how data is generated by specifying different parameters. For example parameters such as the number of rows e.g. random or fixed and nature of the data e.g. random fixed or based on a range sequence or trend that can approximate real or hypothetical data can be specified.

According to a further aspect of the invention a flowlet destination component is provided which has a single input. The flowlet destination output will have metadata of the columns generated inside the scope of a flowlet and represented using the external metadata columns. These external metadata columns define a contract between a flowlet and an outer data flow when flowlet output columns are considered. These columns further provide for the case when this contract is defined before the inner flowlet logic is built. Furthermore at execution time flowlet definition execution the flowlet destination will only absorb data generated upstream of it according to one aspect of the invention.

Additionally as described above flowlet destination component sinks data at the end points of the flow. According to a further aspect of the invention developers of data flows can customize how the data gets consumed by specifying different parameters. For example parameters such as drop data e.g. the data is dropped from the data flow row count e.g. the number of data rows is counted and recorded and dumped out e.g. the data is written out to a file in a minimal fashion can be specified.

According to a further aspect of the invention a Flowlet Reference Component is provided which is itself a link between the flowlet definition and a data flow it is used in. The flowlet reference component has the same number of inputs as the referenced flowlet definition has flowlet sources and it has the same number of outputs as the flowlet definition has flowlet destinations. Inputs on the flowlet reference component are mapped one to one with the flowlet sources inside the flowlet definition. The same is true for the flowlet reference outputs and flowlet destinations.

According to a further aspect of the invention the flowlet reference component inputs have external metadata columns with the same metadata as output columns of a linked flowlet source from the flowlet definition. These external metadata columns can be used to map upstream output columns in the hosting data flow. Additionally the external metadata columns of flowlet destinations can show up as output columns in appropriate outputs on flowlet reference components. Those columns can then be automatically made available for downstream mappings as if they were created by a regular component.

According to a further aspect of the invention the instances of flowlets can have the notions of synchronous asynchronous outputs similar to the real components.

According to a further aspect of the invention the runtime connection collection on the reference component can be used to publish all the connections used internally in the flowlet definition to allow mapping of the connection managers defined in the external data flow to those defined inside the flowlet definition.

According to a further aspect of the invention the flowlet reference component does not have any execution time behavior e.g. it is ignored when execution paths are built .

According to a further aspect of the invention the flowlet reference component can implement one or more additional interfaces to expose flowlet specific properties and behavior.

In addition to the regular component interfaces that the flowlet reference component implements it can also expose an additional one or more interfaces specific to its behavior. For example such an additional interface can provide services to load and cache flowlet internals refresh loaded flowlet internals persist flowlet internals and extract selected components from the main flow for reasons such as turning them into flowlet definitions.

According to a further aspect of the invention a Flowlet Metadata Mapping Component is provided to isolate boundaries of the flowlet logic from the outer data flow. Accordingly the Flowlet Metadata Mapping Component can provide a necessary indirection to protect flowlet internals from the upstream changes in the main data flow and to protect the downstream components of the main data flow from changes in flowlet internals.

According to a further aspect of the invention the same instances of inputs and outputs exposed on the mapping components can be made available as inputs and outputs on associated flowlet reference components. Accordingly these components have one input and one output. The input contains both input and external metadata columns. The output contains output columns. Furthermore mappings can also be defined between external metadata columns and output columns. As a result these components are what flowlet sources and flowlet destinations can become when the content of a flowlet definition is loaded as a sub graph under a flowlet reference component.

According to a further aspect of the invention the Flowlet Metadata Mapping Component does not have execution behavior e.g. it is ignored while building the execution paths . Moreover the metadata mapping indirection that this component defines can be resolved at the time the execution paths are generated. The inner and outer column mappings can also be reconfigured at that time.

According to a further aspect of the invention the data flow layout for both flowlet and regular data flow modules can include internal implementations of the components Flowlet Source   of Flowlet Destination   of Flowlet Reference of and Flowlet Metadata Mapping component and of . Furthermore Flowlet Metadata Mapping component can be implemented either as a separate entity or it can be built by transforming the Flowlet Source e.g. adding an input to it or Flowlet Destination e.g. adding an output to it . Additionally the Flowlet Reference component can have a placeholder for data flow sub graphs with components and paths loaded from associated flowlet definitions.

According to one aspect of the invention a method of creating a modularized data flow by extracting portions of an existing SSIS data flow into a flowlet definition module is provided. To extract a portion of an existing SSIS data flow the process begins by selecting the components to extract at in the provided data flow designer  A as illustrated in and issuing an extract flowlet command .

Although creation of modular data flows from existing data flows using the method above represents one aspect of the invention it should be apparent that the data flow designer provided by the invention enables the creation of such modularized data flows from scratch as indicated above. Furthermore one skilled in the art would recognize other methods of creating modular data flows according to the framework and concepts disclosed herein. As such the invention should not be limited to the disclosed embodiments.

To illustrate an example of the method described above illustrates an exemplary simple data flow and the layout of columns that the data flow processes. The data flow  A consists of the Source component  A which produces 4 columns A B C and D Transform which references column A and produces column E Transform which references B and produces F and the Destination component  A which consumes all the columns generated upstream e.g. A B C D E and F . illustrates an exemplary flowlet definition diagram created by extracting components Transform and Transform of .

In the Flowlet Source  B produces only the columns extracted components Transform and Transform consumed. Similarly the Flowlet Destination  B only consumes columns E and F and e.g. the ones generated by the extracted components . As a result the Flowlet Destination  B has external metadata columns that match metadata of E and F columns and and to which upstream columns can be mapped. For the case in Transform and Transform are shown as synchronous components. However for the asynchronous case only the pass through columns C D on and A B on would be terminated for asynchronous components. illustrates an exemplary Flowlet Reference component formed by the extracted components of according to the process of . For example shows how extracted components Transform and Transform of are replaced by the Flowlet Reference component of . shows that Flowlet Reference can behave as an aggregator of extracted components as far as the usage of column metadata is considered.

According to one aspect of the invention before a data flow that references flowlets can be executed internals of referenced flowlets have to be cached somewhere in the main flow. Accordingly the internal components and paths can be stored in separate flowlet containers that can be made accessible only through flowlet references . The cached components can be further used to expand the execution paths so they can represent the entire data flow the same way as if the flowlet logic is incorporated inline in the main data flow. The SSIS data flow execution engine thus behaves the same way as if it deals with a single monolithic data flow.

The states of the other regular components and copied from the flowlet definition can be copied from the flowlet definition with the exception of object IDs that are to be regenerated. The ID references inside the scope of cached flowlet objects are updated as well to use the newly generated IDs.

According to a further aspect of the invention caching internal flowlet logic by the hosting data flows can optionally be cached only once while persisting the loaded flowlet internals in the hosting package cached initially but refreshed when the original gets changed or not cached with flowlet internals always loaded just before execution.

According to one aspect of the invention a flowlet that is referenced in a hosting data flow behaves as a single component to manipulate the data according to the operations or steps defined by its inner logic. Advantageously this does not require a separate data flow execution engine in SSIS that is responsible for flowlets. As a result the invention provides the mechanism for flowlets to be incorporated to the main data flow in order to be executed. Thus the execution paths can include the inner flowlet components. Thus the final update of object IDs that are used to map columns with their upstream origins can be based on the information contained in the metadata mapping components that separate inner and outer components.

As described above execution paths are entities that define flowing of data in SSIS data flows. Execution paths start at outputs that can produce data e.g. sources and end at inputs that consume the data e.g. destinations . They also include all synchronous input output pairs that only pass the data through.

According to one aspect of the invention the introduction of flowlets does not change the process of data flow logic. Rather all necessary information about the flowlet to be extracted can be collected before beginning the process of building of execution paths to be able to integrate inner flowlet logic into the execution paths the same way as if that logic is contained in the main data flow.

After loading flowlet logic into the context of a hosting data flow the system can translate column lineage IDs and all other object IDs into an empty space e.g. not previously used IDs so they do not conflict with already used IDs. As a result the inner IDs on flowlet metadata mapping components are updated so that the inner outer column mappings are in sync with these changes.

As described above flowlet mapping components can be enumerated and the table of column lineage ID aliases can be built while building the execution trees. After finishing the generation of execution trees the SSIS data flow execution scheduler can enumerate all the columns and assign lineage IDs to column positions in assigned buffer definitions for each component. The previously built table of lineage ID aliases can be used to find appropriate upstream columns for the case where mapped column lineages pass at least one flowlet metadata mapping isolation point.

According to a further aspect of the invention the debugging experience when data flows containing flowlets are executed is similar to the experience with debugging regular data flows. Progress can be reported and data viewers can be attached on visible paths. According to a further aspect of the invention flowlet reference components can be colored to represent execution state of inner components it encapsulates. For example no color change e.g. white can indicate that none of the inner components have started execution yellow can indicate that at least one component started the execution and there is at least one component which have not finished the execution green can indicate that all inner components have finished the execution and red can indicate that there is at least one inner component which failed in execution. The selections of such debugging indications are described to illustrate exemplary choices of debugging options available and are not crucial to the functionality of the invention.

According to a further aspect of the invention the data flow developer can be presented with debugging information even inside the flowlets. Such information can be provided by passing the progress information to opened flowlet designers and implementing the same debugging visual features in the provided designer as for a regular data flow. Flowlet references behave as single components in main data flows during the execution in the designer. The progress events and data viewers can offer an external view to the flowlets referenced in the main data flow. The flowlet definition designer can be opened from the place it is referenced in a main flow and internal progress messages can be channeled to it and displayed at the granularity of a single component contained by the flowlet. According to a further aspect of the invention it possible to define data viewers inside flowlet definition diagrams. As a result when the execution flow gets inside the flowlet internals a flowlet can start coloring and show progress and data viewers for respective components presented in the flowlet definition designer for example when opened in a separate window.

According to a further aspect of the invention error messages logging information and other events generated by the inner flowlet components can also be routed to the appropriate flowlet reference component and then filtered or aggregated as necessary to further enrich the development and debugging experience. For example components defined in flowlets can be loaded into a main data flows for the execution and as such can pass associated logging information to the log providers defined in the main data flow. According to a further aspect of the invention log information emitted by components inside of referenced flowlets can be extended to identify both the flowlet reference component and its inner component.

According to a further aspect of the invention standard data flow events can be raised by data flow components such as information warning error progress custom event and query cancel. Information warning and error events can be used for diagnostics of validation execution and other actions. The progress event can be used to report the progress of execution stages e.g. number of components in a data flow that get validated prepared for execution etc. . The custom event can be used to report all other events not covered by the previous four but most importantly it reports progress of data as it moves in buffers. Query cancel can be used to poll the client whether the execution should be canceled. These events can be used by the data flow developer for example to display messages associated with the components that emitted them to display progress in a progress view to show number of rows flowing through paths and to color components as they go through execution phases or encounter errors as described above.

According to a further aspect of the invention for some flowlet reference components introduced in data flows some of these events can be enabled to carry additional information. For example such additional information may identify a flowlet reference together with its inner component that generated an event. Additionally the capability to define the logic to filter or aggregate some of the events raised by the inner components of flowlet definitions can be provided to further enhance the data flow development experience using flowlets.

According to a further aspect of the invention deployment utilities can be provided to cover packages that reference flowlets and to be able to deploy flowlets on their own. Some exemplary deployments scenarios may include deploying flowlet definitions to a common location so they can be referenced from multiple places deploying packages that reference flowlets without used flowlets e.g. in the case where flowlet logic is already cached in main packages deploying packages together with used flowlets and deploying flowlet definitions only. For example if the project to be deployed contains only flowlet definitions it may be possible to deploy all those flowlets to a single location. The flowlets can be deployed the same way that packages are deployed currently with the exception of a different destination table e.g. a msdb database if flowlets are moved to SQL Server.

Furthermore if a deployed project contains both package and flowlet items in their folders all of them can be deployed. A separate destination pages on a deployment wizard can be provided to specify flowlet and package destination server or folder. As a further illustration the deployment logic can follow the steps of going through the entire package to look for the flowlet reference components get to the connection managers e.g. File and SQL Server connections used to define locations of flowlet definitions from the list of flowlet reference components build a list of unique flowlet definitions from the connection managers pointing to files find those among the flowlet definitions identified in the last step that are already cached to the main flow in all instances where they are referenced offer this list in the wizard grid so users can choose which ones to deploy with associated packages show the rest of the list as flowlets that will also be deployed and the go through the list of flowlet definitions to be deployed and update connections managers pointing to them in the main package. Note that flowlets published to SQL Server do not need to be moved as their references will not be broken.

According to a further aspect of the invention flowlet definitions can be saved to three types of storage e.g. files dedicated table in the SQL Server system database and SSIS Storage just as for regular SSIS packages. Moreover flowlet browsing capability can be provided in the provided SSIS designer as well as to other relevant clients.

Additionally the invention provides the possibility to choose among multiple ways to protect flowlet definitions. For example a data flow developer can choose to not save sensitive data encrypt sensitive data with user key or password encrypt all data with user key or password or rely on server storage and roles for access control. Accordingly the default flowlet definition protection can be to encrypt sensitive data with user key. As a result only the same user would be allowed to load the package in whole and a different user will see blanks replacing the sensitive information and fail to execute the package. Similarly the encrypt all data with user key provides that a different user will not be able to open the package at all. Such options can rely on the function EncryptStringWithUserKey from MICROSOFT Data Protection API DPAPI to do the encryption or other equivalent encryption APIs or functionality. As an example if the protection level is set to encrypt sensitive data with password a screen asking for password can be provided when a user opens a package. Failing to provide a correct password causes the package to open without sensitive data loaded and the package will not be executed. Similarly if the protection level is set to encrypt all data with password a user is unable to open or execute the data if correct password is not entered appropriately. Lastly a protection level set to rely on server storage and roles for access control protects a package with database level roles only when a package is saved to SQL database.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the invention can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes which may be used in connection with modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows in accordance with the present invention. The present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage. The present invention may also be applied to standalone computing devices having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities for generating receiving and transmitting information in connection with remote or local services and processes. Modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows and the related techniques in accordance with the present invention can be applied with great efficacy in those environments.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the systems and methods for modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows according to the disclosed invention.

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device etc. or etc. Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. any of which may employ a variety of wired and wireless services software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many of the networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any of the infrastructures may be used for exemplary communications made incident to modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows according to the present invention.

In home networking environments there are at least four disparate network transport media that may each support a unique protocol such as Power line data both wireless and wired voice e.g. telephone and entertainment media. Most home control devices such as light switches and appliances may use power lines for connectivity. Data Services may enter the home as broadband e.g. either DSL or Cable modem and are accessible within the home using either wireless e.g. HomeRF or 802.11B or wired e.g. Home PNA Cat 5 Ethernet even power line connectivity. Voice traffic may enter the home either as wired e.g. Cat 3 or wireless e.g. cell phones and may be distributed within the home using Cat 3 wiring. Entertainment media or other graphical data may enter the home either through satellite or cable and is typically distributed in the home using coaxial cable. IEEE 1394 and DVI are also digital interconnects for clusters of media devices. All of these network environments and others that may emerge or already have emerged as protocol standards may be interconnected to form a network such as an intranet that may be connected to the outside world by way of a wide area network such as the Internet. In short a variety of disparate sources exist for the storage and transmission of data and consequently any of the computing devices of the present invention may share and communicate data in any existing manner and no one way described in the embodiments herein is intended to be limiting.

The Internet commonly refers to the collection of networks and gateways that utilize the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols which are well known in the art of computer networking. The Internet can be described as a system of geographically distributed remote computer networks interconnected by computers executing networking protocols that allow users to interact and share information over network s . Because of such wide spread information sharing remote networks such as the Internet have thus far generally evolved into an open system with which developers can design software applications for performing specialized operations or services essentially without restriction.

Thus the network infrastructure enables a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as an example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. maintain the data that is then replicated to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the systems and methods for modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows in accordance with the invention.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques for modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows of the invention may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

Thus illustrates an exemplary networked or distributed environment with server s in communication with client computer s via a network bus in which the present invention may be employed. In more detail a number of servers etc. are interconnected via a communications network bus which may be a LAN WAN intranet GSM network the Internet etc. with a number of client or remote computing devices etc. such as a portable computer handheld computer thin client networked appliance or other device such as a VCR TV oven light heater and the like in accordance with the present invention. It is thus contemplated that the present invention may apply to any computing device in connection with which it is desirable to modularize data flows or provide stand alone execution of incomplete data flows.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. Servers etc. may also serve as clients etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned communications may be wired or wireless or a combination where appropriate. Client devices etc. may or may not communicate via communications network bus and may have independent communications associated therewith. For example in the case of a TV or VCR there may or may not be a networked aspect to the control thereof. Each client computer etc. and server computer etc. may be equipped with various application program modules or objects etc. and with connections or access to various types of storage elements or objects across which files or data streams may be stored or to which portion s of files or data streams may be downloaded transmitted or migrated. Any one or more of computers etc. may be responsible for the maintenance and updating of a database or other storage element such as a database or memory for storing data processed or saved according to the invention. Thus the present invention can be utilized in a computer network environment having client computers etc. that can access and interact with a computer network bus and server computers etc. that may interact with client computers etc. and other like devices and databases .

As mentioned the invention applies to any device wherein it may be desirable to modularize data flows or provide stand alone execution of incomplete data flows. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the present invention. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the present invention may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction. Thus the present invention may be implemented in an environment of networked hosted services in which very little or minimal client resources are implicated e.g. a networked environment in which the client device serves merely as an interface to the network bus such as an object placed in an appliance.

Although not required the invention can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the component s of the invention. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up may be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example computer could include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through user input and associated interface s that are coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem may also be connected to the system bus . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which may in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which may in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface of input or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Various distributed computing frameworks have been and are being developed in light of the convergence of personal computing and the Internet. Individuals and business users alike are provided with a seamlessly interoperable and Web enabled interface for applications and computing devices making computing activities increasingly Web browser or network oriented.

For example MICROSOFT s managed code platform e.g. .NET includes servers building block services such as Web based data storage and downloadable device software. Generally speaking the .NET platform provides 1 the ability to make the entire range of computing devices work together and to have user information automatically updated and synchronized on all of them 2 increased interactive capability for Web pages enabled by greater use of XML rather than HTML 3 online services that feature customized access and delivery of products and services to the user from a central starting point for the management of various applications such as e mail for example or software such as Office .NET 4 centralized data storage which increases efficiency and ease of access to information as well as synchronization of information among users and devices 5 the ability to integrate various communications media such as e mail faxes and telephones 6 for developers the ability to create reusable modules thereby increasing productivity and reducing the number of programming errors and 7 many other cross platform and language integration features as well.

While some exemplary embodiments herein are described in connection with software such as an application programming interface API residing on a computing device one or more portions of the invention may also be implemented via an operating system or a middle man object a control object hardware firmware intermediate language instructions or objects etc. such that the methods for modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows in accordance with the invention may be included in supported in or accessed via all of the languages and services enabled by managed code such as .NET code and in other distributed computing frameworks as well.

There are multiple ways of implementing the present invention e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use the systems and methods for modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows of the invention. The invention contemplates the use of the invention from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that modularizes data flows or provides stand alone execution of incomplete data flows in accordance with the invention. Thus various implementations of the invention described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any computing device or system in which it is desirable to modularize data flows or provide stand alone execution of incomplete data flows. For instance some of the components of the invention may be applied to the operating system of a computing device provided as a separate object on the device as part of another object as a reusable control as a downloadable object from a server as a middle man between a device or object and the network as a distributed object as hardware in memory a combination of any of the foregoing etc. While exemplary programming languages names and examples are chosen herein as representative of various choices these languages names and examples are not intended to be limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are numerous ways of providing object code and nomenclature that achieves the same similar or equivalent functionality achieved by the various embodiments of the invention.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Thus the methods and apparatus of the present invention or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code e.g. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the methods or components of the present invention e.g. through the use of a data processing API reusable controls or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The methods and apparatus of the present invention may also be practiced via communications embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer etc. the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to invoke the functionality of the present invention. Additionally any storage techniques used in connection with the present invention may invariably be a combination of hardware and software.

Furthermore the disclosed subject matter may be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer or processor based device to implement aspects detailed herein. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product where used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick . Additionally it is known that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN .

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

Furthermore as will be appreciated various portions of the disclosed systems above and methods below may include or consist of artificial intelligence or knowledge or rule based components sub components processes means methodologies or mechanisms e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines classifiers . . . . Such components inter alia can automate certain mechanisms or processes performed thereby to make portions of the systems and methods more adaptive as well as efficient and intelligent.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. For example while exemplary network environments of the invention are described in the context of a networked environment such as a peer to peer networked environment one skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention is not limited thereto and that the methods as described in the present application may apply to any computing device or environment such as a gaming console handheld computer portable computer etc. whether wired or wireless and may be applied to any number of such computing devices connected via a communications network and interacting across the network. Furthermore it should be emphasized that a variety of computer platforms including handheld device operating systems and other application specific operating systems are contemplated especially as the number of wireless networked devices continues to proliferate.

While exemplary embodiments refer to utilizing the present invention in the context of particular programming language constructs the invention is not so limited but rather may be implemented in any language to provide methods for modularizing data flows or providing stand alone execution of incomplete data flows. Still further the present invention may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

