---

title: System and method for allocating mortgage repayment funds
abstract: A system and method for computing mortgage amortization so as to allow the borrower to pay down the principal portion of his or her mortgage faster includes calculating traditional and modified principal and interest repayment amounts and calculating a baseline or average principal and interest amount payable over the life of the loan. An interest Index rate is established. Principal payments are placed in an interest-bearing account administered by the lender. Changes in interest rates are computed on a monthly basis. When the current monthly interest rate is less than the initial Index rate, the difference in interest payments received needed to fund the loan and the amount paid by the homeowner are split between the homeowner and the lender. When the current monthly interest rate is greater than the initial Index rate, additional funds must be withdrawn from one or more established accounts or collected directly from the homeowner to fund the loan for that month. Principal payments and any funds left in the homeowner's interest-bearing account are used to reduce the principal of the loan.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07599886&OS=07599886&RS=07599886
owner: 
number: 07599886
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070515
---
The present application is related to and claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 747 264 filed May 15 2006 and incorporated fully herein by reference.

The present invention relates to mortgages and more particularly to a system and method for calculating and amortizing a mortgage and for allocating mortgage payment funds so as to allow the borrower to pay down the principal portion of his or her mortgage faster.

There are many existing home or commercial mortgage amortization methods. One of the most common is a conventional fixed rate mortgage where the borrower pays a fixed monthly amount based on a fixed interest rate for the duration of the mortgage for example 30 years . The advantage of this type of mortgage is that the borrower knows what his or her payment will be for the entire duration of the loan. A disadvantage of this type of mortgage is that if the prevailing loan or mortgage interest rates drop or the prevailing interest rates on various savings or investment accounts rise the borrower can not take advantage of this situation without refinancing the loan which is often a costly undertaking.

In years past the fixed rate mortgage loan has been the most common type of loan. This type of loan suited most Americans who typically stayed in one home for all or nearly all of their entire adult lives. Most homeowners however are now not staying in one home their entire adult lives but rather are moving on the average of every seven years or less.

Another common mortgage amortization method is an adjustable rate mortgage ARM . In this method the borrower s interest rate changes on a periodic basis for example every month every quarter or every year and therefore the loan repayment amount changes accordingly. This type of mortgage amortization method suits many homeowners who are either moving frequently or who expect significant increases in salary within a short period of time. The disadvantage of this type of mortgage is that should interest rates rise the borrower will see a corresponding rise in his or her loan payment.

Lastly an additional mortgage payment methodology is commonly referred to as the biweekly mortgage which attempts to reduce the interest paid by the borrower by making payments every two weeks instead or once per month. This results in lower eventual interest payments and the actual payment of one additional loan payment per year. The difficulty for some borrowers with this methodology is that some borrowers may not have the additional funds required for this payment method or may not qualify for this payment method.

Accordingly what is needed is a novel system and method for providing a loan amortization calculation method which allows the borrower and lender to share in the accumulated surpluses from the loan repayment while still ensuring that the lender will make a sufficient minimum return on their investment covering their costs of lending the money servicing the loan and a reasonable profit. Borrowers benefit by having more of their monthly mortgage payment go toward paying down the principal balance rather than interest payments. The lender can earn a higher return based on the way it invests the principal portion of the borrower s monthly payment and can also pass some of the bank s higher return back to the homeowner or borrower in the form of additional principal pay downs benefiting both the lender and the borrower.

The present invention features a method of processing loan payments so as to allow the borrower to pay down the principal portion of his or her mortgage faster. The method comprises the acts of receiving by an automated system a loan principal amount a loan repayment computational time frame an initial loan interest Index value and a loan interest value. In response to the received loan principal amount the loan repayment computational time frame and the loan interest value the present invention next computes using an automated system such as a computer running appropriate computer software a monthly loan repayment amount. The monthly loan repayment amount includes a conventional principal loan repayment component and a conventional loan interest component

The method in accordance with the present invention continues by calculating by the automated system of a modified loan repayment schedule. The modified loan repayment schedule includes a modified monthly principal component value and a modified monthly interest component value and wherein the sum of the modified monthly principal component value and the modified monthly interest component value is equal to the sum of the conventional principal loan repayment component and the conventional loan interest component. The method of the present convention next receives a loan repayment amount from a borrower. The loan repayment amount includes the modified monthly principal component value and the modified monthly interest component value.

In response to receiving the loan repayment amount from the borrower the method of the present convention continues by transferring the modified monthly principal component value to an interest bearing account. The method also computes a present loan interest Index value. The method further computes using an automated system the difference between the initial loan interest Index value and the present loan interest Index value. If the computed difference is a positive value the method of a present invention performs the act of causing an amount equal to the difference between interest on the loan computed using the initial loan interest Index value and interest on the loan computed using the present loan interest Index value to be deposited into one or more interest bearing accounts wherein one half of the deposited amount is allocated to a lender s benefit and one half of the deposited amount is allocated to a borrower s benefit.

If the computed difference is a negative value the present method computes loan interest required using the present loan interest Index value and determines if there are enough funds in the borrower s benefit portion in the interest bearing account to pay this amount. If there are enough funds in the borrower s benefit portion of the interest bearing account the method withdraws the required computed loan interest. If there are not enough funds in the borrower s benefit portion of the interest bearing account the required computed loan interest amount is collected withdrawn from another account or if there are not enough funds in a predetermined order of accounts directly from the borrower.

In the preferred embodiment the act of collecting the required computed loan interest from another account proceeds in the following order first in an amount equal to no more than the difference between the modified monthly principal component value and the conventional principal component value paid to date by the borrower next in an amount equal to no more than one half the amount deposited in the interest bearing account allocated to the lender and lastly directly from the borrower by means of an additional monthly payment charge.

The act of calculating by the automated system of the loan modified monthly principal component value and the modified monthly interest component value may include calculating an average monthly loan principal repayment value over the loan repayment computational time frame and calculating an average monthly interest component value based on the overall loan interest rate.

It is important to note that the present invention is not intended to be limited to a system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated objects or features of the invention. It is also important to note that the present invention is not limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein.

The present invention features a system and method for allocating mortgage repayment funds. For purposes of describing the invention disclosed and claimed herein the present invention may from time to time or in the examples be referred to as the Alternative Mortgage Fund or AMF for short. In addition for sake of simplicity and clarity examples noted are based on yearly overviews only. In truth the present invention and method of allocation will take place on a month by month basis. The system and method according to the present invention begins by first defining at least the interest rate the loan principal amount and the duration or term of the loan act . For example the loan may consist of a principal amount of 250 000 at an interest rate of 6.5 for a loan period of 30 years. The present invention will be explained also in connection with which shows representative actual computations for such a loan computed in accordance with the teachings of the present invention.

After determining or allocating the overall interest rate for the loan typically but not necessarily based on current market trends in the fixed rate mortgage industry act the method of the present invention continues on to calculate the principal and interest payments. The principal and interest payments will be computed in accordance with standard actuarial and financial methodologies using a fixed interest rate for example 6.5 for a fixed period of time for example 30 years .

The method of the present invention next continues to compute baseline principal and interest amounts. The baseline principal and interest amount is computed as the average monthly principal and or interest amount which would be paid by the borrower to the lender over the entire life of the loan. Furthermore the means of calculating the principal and interest amounts to be paid utilizing the method of the present invention can be readily seen in . For a numerical example as can be seen in columns and of the initial principal payment calculated in accordance with the teachings of the present invention will be 460.22 while the initial interest payment will be 1119.95.

In contrast as shown in line of a standard 30 year fixed rate loan having an interest rate of 6.5 would have an initial first month s principal allocation payment of 226 and an initial first month s interest payment of 1354.17. Although the total monthly payments are the same utilizing the method of the present invention and conventional fixed amortization methods it is apparent that the method of the present invention allows a borrower to pay more toward principal and less toward interest payments during the initial term of the loan.

After preparing all of the computations which are accomplished utilizing readily available computer hardware and software appropriately programmed the method of the present invention continues by receiving a monthly loan payment act . Using the baseline calculations the appropriate principal amount including both the standard loan amortization principal amount and the extra principal amount the difference between the principal amount computed in accordance with teachings of the present invention and shown in column and the standard principal amount will be deposited in a principal account act .

The principal account is an interest bearing account. Although preferably an insured account this is not a limitation of the present invention. Examples without limitation of interest bearing accounts contemplated by the present invention include money market accounts mutual funds savings accounts CDs stocks and stock accounts and bonds and bond accounts. The interest earned in this account accumulates and is utilized to eventually reduce principal amount and to fund interest repayments if required as will be explained in greater detail below.

At the onset of the loan the lender will establish an Index upon which interest payments for the life of the loan computed in accordance with the present invention will be calculated. There are many well known such indices and without limitation examples of such an Index include the London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR the 12 month Treasury Average TMA the Cost of Deposit Index CODI the 11th District Cost of Funds Index COFI and the Cost of Savings Index COSI .

The interest rate of the loan will typically be set at a value which is a predetermined amount above the margin selected by the lender which in essence establishes a base return that the lender wishes to maintain on the loan to ensure profitability. For example most lending institutions want to maintain a minimum of approximately 1.87 margin and thus an initial index of 4.63 would dictate a loan having an interest rate of at least 6.5 index rate of 4.63 plus a margin of 1.87 .

Each month the method of the present invention will determine the present value of the selected interest index act . If the present monthly value of the Index is less than the computed initial or original loan Index act the difference yields an amount which will be deposited in two accounts act . One half of the difference are allocated to the lender s account act in a lender s Rate Surplus Funds RSF account while one half of the funds are allocated to the borrower or homeowner act in a homeowner s savings account. In this manner if the interest Index rate drops both the lender and borrower will share equally the resulting difference between the original interest amount previously computed and the actual interest required for the lender to borrow the funds.

If in act it is determined that the present monthly value of the Index is more than the computed original index additional interest monies must be withdrawn from deposited funds or otherwise collected from the borrower to make up the shortfall act . The funds are withdrawn from the following accounts in the following order and only to the extent there are sufficient funds first from the homeowners savings account described in herein secondly from the principal account described in act herein but ONLY in an amount not exceeding the extra principal deposited in the account as the homeowner will never lose the standard principal amount paid into that account thirdly from the lender s RSF account described in connection with act but ONLY in an amount not exceeding one half of the balance in that account act and lastly if none of the accounts have sufficient finds any deficiency will be collected for that month directly from the homeowner. The method of the present invention determines if the balance in the appropriate next in line account is positive act and if so the funds are withdrawn act . If there are not enough funds in the borrower s account to be withdrawn to pay the shortfall the homeowner or borrower will have to pay the interest adjustment costs act .

At the termination of the loan whatever monies are left in the lender s account is profit for the lender. Whatever is left in the homeowners or borrower s account is earmarked toward paying additional loan principal.

During the initial years of the loan and up to and including approximately the 17th year of the loan the amount of principal paid by the borrower each month is not in actuality deducted from the principal amount of the loan. Rather these amounts are deposited into the interest bearing account and the homeowner is essentially getting credit for paying the principal down but in reality the lender is using this money to earn additional money. The interest earned from this account is used to both assist in paying monthly loan costs generally 50 as well as continuing to compound within the account generally 50 .

By way of example the following and the description in Table 1 herein sets forth an exemplary loan repayment transaction over the first four years of the loan. The following assumes a 250 000 loan amount at a 6.5 interest rate. The lender may choose to charge points as well as various lender fees which may be placed in the lender s RSF account for future use or the Lender may wish to use extract these initial fees from the loan closing and NOT add them to the Lender s account. This example assumes an initial interest Index rate of 4.63 .

During the first year the homeowner will pay a total of 18 962 to the lender. Using conventional 30 year fixed rate mortgage repayment schedules the conventional interest paid would be 16 167.73 while conventional principal paid would be 2794.40. Using the average or baseline computations of the present invention the present method will allocate 5 568 to principal and 13 394.04 to interest payments. Note that the borrower can never lose the conventional principal repayment amount of 2794.40. Only the difference between this amount and the AMF principal amount can be used to fund interest shortages as will be explained below. Accordingly during the first year the homeowner earns a credit for 2773.60 more in principal payment and paid a corresponding amount less in interest payments. Although paying less interest may costs a homeowner some amount in lost mortgage interest tax deductions overall the homeowner is several thousand dollars ahead.

From the lender s perspective the first year saw the homeowner pay 13 394 in interest while it cost the lender to borrow or otherwise fund the 250 000 loan leaving a remainder of 1819. Of this remainder 1569 is part of the annual operating expenses AOE of the lender in maintaining the loan while 250 1 1000of the loan amount is deposited into the lender s Corporate Contingency savings account. The lender s corporate contingency account is developed by the Lender as a hedge account against loan late payments and non payments by some potential borrowing customer. These amounts are pooled between all of the Lender s loans. The principal account will receive 236.64 in interest assuming a money market account rate of 4.25 . Accordingly the principal account now has a value of 5804.64.

During the second year the borrower pays an additional 18 962 of which 13 300.20 is allocated to interest while 5 661.84 is allocated to principal. Assuming the current interest rate does not fluctuate from the initial loan interest index rate the lender will receive 13 300 in interest payments of which it will cause the lender 11 575 to fund the loan leaving a remainder of 1725. When the 244 portion of the interest from the principal account is added to this amount the total dollars available to the Lender this Year equals 1 969. Of this amount 250 will go into the lender s Corporate Contingency account 125 will be paid to the mortgage broker loan officer if applicable 1569 0.62 of the loan amount will be retained by the lender as its annual operating expenses while the remaining 25 will go into the lender s RSF savings account for a total expense of 1969.

The principal account will contain 5 804 from the previous year and 5 662 from the current year. Assuming a money market interest rate of 4.25 an additional 487 will be earned in interest. Of this amount 244 will be used towards this year s expenses as noted in previous paragraph while the remainder will stay in the account for next year thereby compounding more interest revenue.

During the third year the annual payments of 18 962 are allocated with 13 200 going to interest payments and 5 762 going to principal payments. Assuming a true funding cost of 11 575 the lender has 1625 remaining from the interest payment plus 366 from the Principal account s earned interest which totals 1991. From the 1991 available 250 goes to its general reserve savings accounts 125 is paid as brokers fees and 1569 is allocated to the total annual operating expenses of the lender which leaves 47 as the remainder which goes into the lender s savings account. The principal account will now have a value of 17 235 consisting of 11 230 from previous years 243.50 from last year s interest rollover and 5 762 from this years principal payments. Assuming an interest rate of 4.25 an additional 732.50 will be earned in interest. Of this amount 366.25 will be used to fund this year s loan expenses as noted above.

During the fourth year the borrower will again pay in total payments with 13 124 allocated to interest and allocated to principal. Deducting the bank s cost of for the loan against the interest paid 1549 will remain which is added to the 493 available from the Principal Account s interest totaling 2 042. Of this amount 250 will go into the lender s reserve account 125 will be paid to the mortgage broker as a fourth year broker s fee 1569 will be allocated towards the total operating expenses of the loan 0.62 of the loan amount while 98 will go into the lender s account.

Accordingly the present convention provides a novel system and method for computing repayment principal and interest on a loan so as to pay down the principal amount more rapidly in the beginning term of the loan and allowing the homeowner and lender to share in any possible risks and benefits achieved by rising or lowering interest rates.

The present invention is not intended to be limited to a system or method that must satisfy one or more of any stated or implied objects or features of the invention. It is also important to note that the present invention is not limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention which is not to be limited except by the allowed claims and their legal equivalents.

