---

title: Uniform converter input voltage distribution power system
abstract: A uniform converter input voltage distribution power system evenly controls the individual input voltages of DC-to-DC series-input parallel-output connected converters using a uniform input voltage distribution controller including a generator for generating respective error signals from the converter input voltages using a common distribution reference signal for providing respective converter control signals connected to the converters through respective shared-bus controls for evenly distributing the power delivered by the converters that are shared-bus current-mode converters for preferably providing a low output voltage. Employing a common regulation control signal, the controller can also provide system output voltage regulation, system input current limiting, proportional-voltage control, relaxed voltage uniformity, and fault-tolerant power control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07773395&OS=07773395&RS=07773395
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 07773395
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070221
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract No. FA8802 04 C 0001 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application is related to applicant s copending application entitled Uniform Converter Output Voltage Distribution Power System Ser. No. 11 145 336 filed Jun. 3 2005 by the same inventor.

The invention relates to the field of field of power systems. More particularly the invention relates to uniform voltage distribution of series input parallel output connected converters in DC DC power systems.

DC DC Power systems have been using a plurality of converters connected in series input and parallel output configurations. Uniform output current sharing and nonuniformly input voltage distribution exists as a result of mismatches in component values employed among nearly identical series input converters having outputs connected in parallel. With such mismatches output voltage regulation performance becomes unreliable in both the steady state and the transient state because the input voltages across individual converters drift too far from a uniformly distributed voltage. Undesirable interactions among interconnected converters arise because of drifted nonuniform input voltage distribution that leads to instability due to different modes of operation among series input converters each of which is controlled differently under respective dedicated voltage regulation control.

DC DC Power systems employing converters connected in parallel input and parallel output configurations are well known. The problem of uniform current distribution control is solved by using the manufacturer provided parallel control port that serves as a common shared bus at which a single input voltage commands the parallel connected converters to operate as voltage controlled current sources. This current mode shared bus approach to uniform current distribution is well established particularly for parallel connected conventional converters.

DC DC converters can be connected in a distributed input parallel output configuration where the converter outputs are parallel connected to a common load and the inputs are individually connected to the distributed input power sources. The distributed sources may have non identical characteristics that result in non uniform distribution of the converter input voltages in addition to minor internal component mismatches among these converters. When each of the distributed input power sources is independent and not coupled to the other input power sources the nonuniform input voltages may not become an issue because the system can achieve robust stability without dedicated uniform input voltage distribution control. However when converters are connected in a series input parallel output topology that shares a common input power source across the series connected converter inputs the non uniformly distributed input voltages can also lose stability and cause one or more of the converters to absorb an excessive portion of the common system input voltage. System reliability suffers because the converters that contribute a greater portion of the output power are thermally overstressed. These and other disadvantages are solved or reduced using the invention.

An object of the invention is to provide a series input parallel output power system having uniform power distribution among a plurality of DC DC converters.

Another object of the invention is to provide a series input parallel output power system having uniform power distribution among a plurality of DC DC converters having electrically isolated control ports isolated from the output voltage for isolation of the non isolated control signals reference to input ground.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a series input parallel output power system having uniform power distribution among a plurality of DC DC converters with input output isolation for controlling the converters using differential voltages being voltage differences each of which between two consecutive floating converter inputs.

Still another object of the invention is to provide a series input parallel output power system having uniform power distribution among a plurality of DC DC converters with input output isolation for controlling the converters using differential voltages being extracted from the successive floating voltages extending between a system input voltage and a system input ground.

A further object of the invention is to provide a series input parallel output power system having unequal power distribution among a plurality of DC DC converters with input output isolation for controlling the converters using a distribution voltage and differential voltages being extracted from the successive floating voltages that extend between a system input voltage and a system input ground.

Yet a further object of the invention is to provide a series input parallel output power system that is fault tolerant with uniform power distribution among a plurality of DC DC converters with input output isolation for controlling the converters.

The invention is directed to a uniform voltage distribution series input parallel output power system that includes DC DC converters each of which having an electrical isolation between its respective non isolated control signal and the floating shared bus control port of the respective converter for a proper generation of its isolated control signal that regulates each respective converter that is typically controlled by its control voltage across the floating control port possessing its signal reference node being the converter input power return terminal having a floating voltage. The input floating voltages are arranged in order from the high input voltage to the low input power ground. Each pair of two consecutive floating inputs provides a differential input voltage that is used to provide input power to each respective converter. A commanding distribution voltage and the differential voltages are used for producing error voltages for generating the distributed control voltages for controlling the converters to have a proper distribution of the input voltages. The system is characterized as having an input series of floating voltages for generating a common system output voltage using a plurality of DC DC converters where the floating voltages are used to generate the distributed control signals for controlling through an isolation means the converters. In so doing the converters have a predetermined power distribution that can be equal or unequal. The system can be designed to provide relaxed and fault tolerant operation.

The power system is expandable to as many converters as desired for higher system input voltage or higher output load current provided that none of the maximum voltage ratings of the isolation devices such as optocouplers or converter input output isolation transformers is exceeded. The controlling voltage at the shared bus input of each converter is usually referenced to the converter power input return terminal that possesses variable floating voltage. The serial input parallel output converters preferably require isolated control. The system can further provide voltage regulation current limiting over voltage protection and under voltage protection. The power system must have a proper distribution of the isolated feedback control voltages that stabilizes undesirable interactions among interconnected converters so as to eliminate component mismatch problems. These and other advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment.

An embodiment of the invention is described with reference to the figures using reference designations as shown in the figures. Referring to a uniform converter input voltage distribution power system receives a Vinput voltage from an input voltage source with respect to an input power ground Vfor providing an output voltage Vwith respect to an output power ground V. There is electrical isolation between the input and output power ground levels. An input current sensor provides for an input current sensed voltage I. The Vinput voltage is applied to a plurality of interconnected DC DC converters such as a first DC DC converter a second DC DC converter and a third DC DC converter all of which are connected in a series input parallel output configuration. The input voltage is applied across input capacitors C C and C that are connected in series for providing floating voltages V V and V respectively. The output voltage Vand an output current Iare applied to a bus stabilizer and a load having a load capacitance C. The output voltage Vand output current Iare stabilized across the load using a bus stabilizer for providing a smoothed output voltage V.

The first floating voltage Vis tied directly to Vinput voltage and hence the first floating voltage Vequals the input voltage V. The floating voltages V V and Vare sensed with respect to the input power ground Vwhile limited by and between the input voltage Vand input power ground V. Series connections among the converters at the power inputs require the input output electrical isolation within all the connected converters. Because of the converter input output electrical isolation the floating voltages are isolated from the output power ground V. Therefore the system maintains a predetermined distribution of power through the converters and by providing electrical isolation to the floating voltages with respect to the output power ground V. In the preferred form the power distribution among the converters and is equal so that the differential voltages being voltage differences extracted from pairs of consecutive floating voltages as Vminus V Vminus V and Vminus the input power ground V are equal and hence these differential voltages Vminus V Vminus V and Vminus V sum to V. The electrical isolation within all the connected converters also provide an option to tie both the input and output power grounds Vand V together at a single point ground node which is preferred to be the same reference ground node for the non isolated control signals produced by the input voltage distribution controller . Furthermore the power system input output electrical isolation can be preserved when the controller is also designed to have an internal electrical isolation between the input and output power grounds thereby ensuring the system level isolation between Vand Vnodes.

The converters and have shared bus inputs SBI that are active pull down inputs respectively driven by a first optocoupler and second optocoupler and a third optocoupler . Each DC DC converter includes a shared bus control input SBI that allows an external signal to take control of the converter. The external control voltage on the shared bus input SBI of each converter must be provided with respect to the input power return negative input terminal of the converter. The controller produces control signals V V through Vwith respect to the input power ground V. A means of signal level shifting is used such as optocoupling for distributing the respective control voltages to the respective SBI. The number N is the number of series connected converters. Because each optocoupler provides electrical isolation between input and output circuitry signal level shifting is achievable with a minimized risk of signal contamination by switching noises produced by the converters.

The optocouplers and are powered by a bias voltage source Vthat is provided with respect to the same input power ground node V. The optocouplers and are respectively controlled by the control voltages V V and Vthrough respective input resistors R R and R. The floating voltages V V and Vare respectively connected to positive inputs of the converters and . The second floating voltage V the third floating voltage V and the input power ground Vare respectively connected to negative inputs of the converters and . To accommodate a low noise signal level shifting each of the optocoupler and provide electrical isolation between its input circuit including the power ground Vand its output circuit including its respective shared bus input SBI and the negative input of the respective converter. A regulated uniform input voltage distribution controller receives the floating voltages V V and Vwith respect to the input ground V receives the output voltage Vwith respect to the output ground V receives the input current sensed voltage Iwith respect to the input power ground V preferably provides a regulation voltage V and preferably provides a reference voltage V. The distribution controller operates to distribute the output power I Vamong the converters and by providing respective control voltages V V and Vwith respect to the input power ground V.

Referring to and more particularly to a uniform input voltage distribution controller that may be a regulated uniform input voltage distribution controller includes a uniform input voltage distribution error signal generator and an output voltage regulation and current limiting controller . The controller includes a voltage regulation controller providing the regulation voltage V a current limiting controller and a reference source providing the Vreference voltage . The current limiting controller receives the input current sensed voltage Iand drives a current limit diode that pulls down the Vregulation voltage when the system is in an over current condition so as to reduce the output current Iusually occurring during a system failure or an output overload condition. The voltage regulation controller receives the output voltage Vand reference voltage Vand provides a regulated voltage V. Voltage regulation and current limiting controllers and are well known. The output voltage regulation and current limiting controller includes a set of error subtractors through for respectively providing the control voltages V V through Vand V. The control voltages V V through Vand Vequal the regulation voltage Vminus respective distribution error signals V V through V and V. When the system level input output electrical isolation is required the voltage regulation controller also needs to provide an isolation means to isolate electrically the output voltage Vand the output power ground node Vfrom the input power ground node V. Consequently the controller may employ either an electro optic coupling circuit or an electro magnetic coupling circuit to have the controller output signal with respect to the input power ground that is isolated from the output power ground. Depending on the circuit design detail within the controller the reference voltage Vmay optionally have its negative node tied to the output power ground instead of the input power ground.

The uniform input voltage distribution error signal generator receives the floating voltages V V V through V and Vand the input power ground Vand provides the distribution error signals V V through V and Vrespectively to the error subtractors through and . The error signal generator generates differential input signals V V through Vand V. Each differential input signal Vindicates a difference between two consecutive floating voltages where V V V V V V V V V and V V V. The last distribution voltage Vis simply equal to Veffectively using an error subtractor not shown as the differential voltage Vis merely equal to the last floating voltage Vas the input power ground Vis relatively zero.

The error signal generator sets the power distribution among the DC DC converters such as converters and The power distribution can be equal or scaled with respect to N DC DC converters. For equal distribution where the differential voltages all equal each other a 1 N divider is used to divide by N the floating voltage Vthat is equal to the input voltage V. With equal distribution the divider provides a distribution voltage V V N that sets an equal differential voltage between the consecutive floating voltages Vthrough V. For an alternative scaled power distribution where the 1 N divider may or may not be set to unity providing no division of the first floating voltage Vthat is V. Instead the first floating voltage Vis routed to N scalars including a Kscalar a Kscalar through a Kscalar and a Kscalar . The scalars and provide respective scaled distribution voltages to a first voltage distribution error amplifier a second voltage distribution error amplifier a next to last voltage distribution error amplifier and a last voltage distribution error amplifier . By setting scalars through to different scales the differential voltages between the floating voltages can be unequal distribution in any proportion of the output voltage Vas desired provided that K Kthrough K K N where K

The distribution controller can be improved to allow for relaxed power distribution operation among the converters. One of the error voltages V such as Vfor example may be set to zero by connecting the error voltage to input power ground V. In the preferred form the first error voltage Vfrom the first error amplifier is tied to the input power ground level such that the first error amplifier is not used. An error signal Vfor just one relaxed converter can be tied to zero. As such there continuously a zero level error for the error signal such as the first error signal Vfor the first converter that becomes the relaxed converter. The error voltages Vare respectively subtracted from the regulation voltage Vusing the error subtractors through . When all of the error voltages Vare zero then each of the control voltages Vequals the regulation voltage V. When all of the control voltages Vare settled to the equilibrium values which can be equal or different from each other then all of the DC DC converters are equally controlled to transfer the same power level. The Vsignal is set to be permanently inactive and zero in value while the first control voltage Vfor the relaxed converter is held at V. Hence there is only one relaxed converter having an inactive error voltage while the remaining converters are not relaxed or tightly controlled by the respective active error signals. When one of the unrelaxed converters fails short circuit with excessive input current as compared to those of other converters the respective differential input voltage Vwill significantly drop below the expected value V N consequently causing the active error signal of the failed converter to become negatively large providing a useless attempt to reduce the current flow into the failed converter which cannot be controlled any longer. As such the lost power from the unrelaxed converter that already fails is transferred to the relaxed converters causing the relaxed converter to transfer more power to maintain the normal system output regulation naturally increasing the input voltage of the relaxed converter. As such the power shortage initiated from one failed converter can be compensated by more power flow in the relaxed converter. Therefore for more room of fault tolerant capability after one or more failures of unrelaxed converters the relaxed converter may have a maximum input voltage rating that is significantly higher than those of the unrelaxed converters. However when a relaxed converter fails the power system will lose the output regulation in the form of either output over voltage when the relaxed converter fails by a short circuit or output under voltage when the relaxed converter fails by an open circuit. Referring to A and B and more particularly to

The wire ORed ideal diode arrangement provides for fault tolerance. The distribution voltage Vequals the largest of differential voltage V. In the event that one of the converters fails such as the second converter and a respective differential voltage such as V V Vlargely decreases another differential voltage such as V V V largely increases. The increasing differential voltage such as V drives the distribution voltage Vmuch higher. As the distribution voltage Vincreases the remaining working converters will be driven harder to provide more of an input voltage to make up for the input voltage loss of the failed converter. In this manner when any one of the converters fails the remaining working converters provide increased input voltages so as to provide converter fault tolerance. Each of those ideal diodes can be implemented by using a circuit consisting of an operational amplifier a non ideal diode and a resistor. Furthermore there is no need to include all N ideal diodes into the wire ORed diode arrangement. At least two ideal diodes are sufficient for the wire ORed diode arrangement. Only two ideal diodes can also be used to derive the commanding distribution voltage from two respective differential input voltages produced by the two respective converters. The system controller is still able to provide a reliable commanding distribution voltage Vwith fault tolerance.

Referring to all of the figures and more particularly to an adjustable uniform input voltage distribution controller can be implemented using the regulated uniform input voltage controller to provide over voltage protection under voltage protection and soft starting. These functions are well known in the art. A soft start circuit is connected to the regulation voltage Vthrough a soft start diode . When either the regulation voltage Vhas reached a predetermined operational level or the predetermined start up time has elapsed the soft start circuit provides an enable signal communicated to an under voltage protector and an over voltage protector respectively connected to an under voltage diode and an over voltage diode . The diodes and are pull down diodes that are in turn connected together and to a set of control diodes through respectively connected to the control voltages V V through V. After the protectors and are enabled the protectors and monitor the floating voltages V. When any one of the floating voltages is above a predetermined value indicating an over voltage condition the over voltage protector pulls down the over voltage diode that in turn pulls down the control voltages Vfor shutting down power operation of the converters. Therefore whenever there is an open circuit failure created by a converter the system is shut down through the over voltage protector. A latched over voltage protection may be preferred to sustain the power system shut down operation once a prolonged over voltage occurred across any converter input. When any one of the floating voltages is below a predetermined value indicating an under voltage condition the under voltage protector pulls down the over voltage diode that in turn pull down the control voltages Vfor shutting down power operation of the converters. Consequently the system shuts down whenever there is a prolonged short circuit failure created by a converter.

The present invention is directed to a series input parallel output uniform voltage distribution power system for providing an output voltage Vfrom an input voltage V using DC DC converters controlled through respective input isolators which can be either electro optic or electromagnetic devices driving the converters where the isolators are controlled by error voltages Vgenerated from a common distribution voltage Vand from differential voltages Vthat are voltage differences between consecutive floating voltages Vthat sum to equal the input voltage V. In the preferred form optocouplers are used to provide a low noise signal level shifting of the control voltages Vthat are referenced with respect to the input power ground Vinto the respective converter shared bus signals that must be referenced with respect to the negative inputs of the respective converters. Those negative inputs of the series input converters have variable floating voltages Vrelative to the input power ground V. The generation of the distribution voltage Vcan be generated by a divider for equal power distribution among the converters can be used by scalars for unequal power distribution or can be generated by a wired OR ideal diode arrangement to provide fault tolerance of anyone of the converters. In a preferred form the system can be relaxed by having a relaxed converter set to provide only normal output regulation while the remaining unrelaxed converters are set to provide the input voltage distribution so that when one of the unrelaxed converters fails the relaxed converter provides increase power to compensate for power that is lost from the failing unrelaxed converter.

The power system has potential applications to expandable telecommunication power systems expandable computer power systems modular satellite power systems input stacked conventional converters for lower output voltage terrestrial energy renewable power systems expandable power supplies for medical equipment recycled energy electronic load for efficient burn in testing battery testing and maintenance equipment for uniform voltage equalization among series connected battery cells and solar array voltage equalizer among series connected solar array panels that have nearly the same peak power voltage but different peak power ratings.

The system is preferably implemented using a uniform distribution controller that includes an output voltage controller for providing the primary control voltage Vand an error signal generator for providing error voltages Vas a secondary control voltages. The output voltage controller receives the error voltages Vto provide distributed control voltages Vto the signal level shifting isolators for isolated control of the converters. The error signal generator generates the error voltages Vfrom a commanding distribution signal Vand differential voltages Vderived from differences between consecutive floating voltages V. The commanding distribution signal Vis derived either from the system input voltage V Vor from at least two of the differential voltages V. Those skilled in the art can make enhancements improvements and modifications to the invention and these enhancements improvements and modifications may nonetheless fall within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

