---

title: Analytics based generation of ordered lists, search engine feed data, and sitemaps
abstract: Systems and methods are described that provide for generating ordered search results based on dynamic web analytics data that allows a resulting list of records that is responsive to a query to be ranked in a fashion that improves user satisfaction and conversion success rate. The system interrogates a target website to build a database of products and services. The individual pages/products in the database of products and services are ranked based on analytics data. Responses to searches of the target website are ordered as list of records that reflects the analytics data, which improves the ordering of the list of records based on criteria such as web page popularity, product popularity, or conversion success rate. Further embodiments provide for the generation of appropriately ordered search engine feed data based on the ranked database of products and services for the target website as well as the generation of search engine sitemaps with an appropriate priority attribute based on the analytics data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08131703&OS=08131703&RS=08131703
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08131703
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070416
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 744 851 filed on Apr. 14 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to computerized information retrieval and more particularly is directed toward the ordering of lists of records returned in response to a set of search criteria.

Website providers generally desire that their website search solution provide the best possible results because site search has been shown to have a conversion rate i.e. the percentage of visitors who take a desired action that is greater than that of overall site conversion rates. Accordingly website providers understand that a satisfying site search experience for users will lead to increased sales higher customer contentment and lower customer service costs.

Characteristics that lead to successful site search solutions include 1 Scope Includes every page or product on the site s 2 Speed Results are available immediately 3 Currency All information is completely up to date 4 Recall Finds every document and or product that is relevant to the query 5 Precision No irrelevant pages or products are included in the results and 6 Ranking The most relevant results come first less relevant results come later.

All six of these characteristics are handled well by conventional systems but the hardest one to do well is ranking. Conventional methods use page information title body metadata and site architecture information to determine what pages should be shown in what order. At best this information helps identify what the visitor wants to find that is the top slot on the first page of results is what the visitor wishes. At worst it is only a loose correlation. For example a product named winter backpack might be found lower in the results list than backpack soap when a visitor searched for backpack mostly driven by the fact that the backpack soap product included the word backpack in the product description more often. This is true of all search engines and while each has special enhancements to improve relevancy all search algorithms may yet be improved especially through the use of additional data sources beyond site content and architecture.

The most often provided enhancement supporting site search optimization is to give control to the customer by allowing them to incorporate tuning such as with keywords synonyms target tags direct hits and more to further guide what results show and in which order they are shown. However this process requires manual tuning and intervention which is a laborious process.

Other conventional ranking methods include interrogating a website and using any information in the site to drive relevancy. In particular data obtained in this way is not limited to data found in a product database. For example a website may include both products with pricing title description and more and supporting content such as press releases and product rewards. Additional conventional ranking methods may use other techniques including adjusting the weightings for standard document elements and adding new metadata for consideration by the ranking algorithms e.g. a rank metatag .

What is yet needed however is an efficient and accurate system and method to better optimize search results automatically thereby overcoming these significant problems found in the conventional systems as described above.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for obtaining information from a target website and generating a database of pages that are ranked based on dynamic web analytics data. Accordingly in response to a search of the target website the responsive list of records is ordered in a fashion that improves user satisfaction and conversion success rate. Embodiments described herein provide a system that interrogates a target website to build a database of products and services. The individual pages in the data of products and services are ranked based on analytics data. Responses to user searches of the target website are then ordered as a list of records that incorporates the analytics data to improve the order of the list of records based on predetermined criteria such as web page popularity product popularity and or conversion success rate. By incorporating dynamic analytics data into the process for ordering the list of records the overall relevancy of the list of records is considerably improved.

Further embodiments described herein allow the website search server to generate appropriately ordered search engine feed data based on the ranked database of products and services for the target website. This appropriately ordered search engine feed data is then provided to a generic search engine such or a comparison shopping search engine to facilitate improved search results. Additional embodiments described herein allow the website search server to generate sitemaps with an appropriate priority attribute based on the dynamic website browsing analytics data. These sitemaps can then be used by web search engine crawlers in the collection of data about the target website.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

Certain embodiments as disclosed herein provide for generation of ordered lists search engine feed data and sitemaps based on dynamic analytics data. After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. Although the invention is directed toward ordered lists in general the primary embodiment described herein will be related to website search result lists however it should be understood that this primary embodiment is presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of a primary embodiment and various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

In one embodiment the network may be the Internet. In alternative embodiments the network can be any combination of one or more wired or wireless networks both public and private. Additionally the various servers can be separate as shown or they can be combined partially or completely together in a single physical server.

The website server can be any of a variety of website servers that host information content applications or other desirable content applications or both. The website server is configured such that analytics data is collected and stored by the analytics server which may be resident with the website server on the same physical computing device or may be both logically and physically separate as shown. Operation of the website server as a content or application provider is well known and will not be described in further detail herein.

The analytics server can be any of a variety of analytics servers and is configured to collect website browsing information and data regarding how customers or other users interact with a target website being hosted by the website server . The analytics server is configured to collect all types of available web analytics data and is further configured to aggregate and segregate the collected information to provide information rich reports that can be extremely granular or extremely broad in nature as desired.

The search server is configured to interrogate the various pages of a target website hosted by the website server . In doing so the search server creates a database in data storage area reflecting the target website. The search server then obtains analytics data from the analytics server and uses the analytics data to rank the various pages and products that are part of the target website. The search server then creates a sitemap and provides it to the website server for later use by search engine . Additionally the search server also creates feeds based on the ranked pages of the target website and provides such feeds to search engine .

As shown each of the servers and are configured with a data storage area and respectively. The data storage areas can be internal external persistent volatile fixed removable or any combination of these. The function of the data storage areas is to store information and programmed instructions compiled or interpreted for use in the generation of ordered lists search engine feed data and sitemaps based on dynamic analytics data.

With respect to the page rank calculation the calculation may be based solely upon the analytics data or upon a combination of analytics data and preferences that are set by the owner of the target website. For example the website owner may desire newer products to have a higher page rank or the website owner may desire to have products with a higher profit margin to have a higher page rank. Accordingly the website owner may set certain preferences e.g. by editing a configuration file or setting certain variable definitions that are then reflected in the page rank calculated by the search server.

Once the target website has been interrogated and the various page ranks have been calculated the page ranks are stored by the search server along with the information related to the target website. For example the ranking information can be stored as one or more rank metatags that are associated with a particular page or product. Additionally the search server can optionally create a search engine feed in step from the information about the target website and the respective rankings and provide the feed to one or more search engines such as Google. Furthermore the search server can optionally create a sitemap in step that advantageously includes all pages of the target website and has priority information for each page that is based on dynamic and up to date analytics information.

Upon obtaining the list of records that is responsive to the query the search server next in step ranks the results based on analytics data. This ranking can be accomplished by determining a page rank for each responsive page when the page rank is stored in the local search server database and associated with each respective page. Alternatively the search server can request analytics data from the analytics server and determine in real time the relative rankings for each record in the list of records that is responsive to the query.

Once the list of records that is responsive to the query has been identified and ranked the search server then in step provides the ranked list of records in response to the query.

The data acquisition module is configured to access a target website and identify the various pages that make up the target website and obtain and store information about the target website in the data storage area . The data acquisition module may accomplish this task of pulling data into the data storage area by crawling the target website using open database connectivity ODBC or performing a datafile load e.g. by obtaining a file via the file transfer program and then loading the file into the database. In one embodiment the information stored in the data storage area may include information about particular web pages and the products and services that are offered for sale at the target website.

The ranking module is configured to interact with an analytics server to obtain relevant analytics data about particular pages and the products and services that are offered for sale at the target website. The analytics data can include information about web pages including for example a conversion value the number of page visits the number of entry page visits a product title a product category a time value for example indicating how long the product has been offered for sale or other temporal aspects related to the product such as how much longer the product will be on sale a profit margin for the product and other useful information. Additionally any other page name value pair i.e. information about a particular webpage can be included in the analytics data.

The ranking module obtains the analytics data from an analytics server and uses that information possibly in combination with other information e.g. specific information from the website owner to provide each page in the target website with a rank. This ranking of the pages of a target website can be performed dynamically in real time as the page is identified as responsive to a search query. Alternatively the ranking may take place periodically as the database of information about the target website is updated and stored in the data storage area . In one embodiment the ranking module dynamically ranks pages that are identified as responsive to a search query such that the rankings are relative to the specific subset of responsive pages. Similarly the ranking module may rank all pages in a target website in order to create a complete ranking to be used in connection with creating feeds and sitemaps.

The feed module is configured to generate feed information that can be provided to a search engine such as a comparison shopping engine. Advantageously analytics data is employed by the feed module in similar fashion as the ranking module such that the feed module can provide appropriately ranked product information to the search engines and thereby optimize the results of any queries to those search engines. The feed module is configured to periodically update the feed information and provide updated feed information to the various search engines so that the feed information reflects the dynamic nature of the analytics data. Advantageously the real time priority information derived from analytics data allows subsequent feeds to emphasize the most important or most popular pages to the various search engines that are receiving the feed data. For example if a particular product was selling extremely well in a certain week that product would be identified in the feed data to a search engine such that searches related to the product would result in the increased chance of the product appearing in the search results from the search engine.

The sitemap module is configured to generate a sitemap for the target website based on the data produced by the data acquisition module and related analytics data. For example the sitemap module is configured to create a comprehensive list of the various web pages that are part of the target website. The sitemap module is also configured to obtain analytics data from an analytics server and provide that information in the sitemap. For example the sitemap may allow for a priority attribute to be included for each web page in a website. Thus the sitemap module is configured to translate analytics data into the priority attribute so that the search engine is kept up to date regarding the most important pages in the website that should be crawled by the search engine. For example those products pages that are most successfully converted can be translated into the highest priority attribute value.

The admin module is configured to provide a user interface to a customer and allow the customer to set the parameters that govern the operation of the search server . For example the customer may desire to determine what fields are considered when ranking the pages of a website and the customer may desire to set the relative weighting of those fields that are considered when ranking the pages of a website. Other customer utilities such as reporting searching creating or modifying templates etc. can also be provided by the admin module .

The computer system preferably includes one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor .

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the computer system . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

Computer system preferably includes a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor . The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage medium in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD etc.

The removable storage medium is preferably a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data. The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the computer system as electrical communication signals .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the computer system . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to the computer system .

Computer system may also include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to computer system from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a modem a network interface card NIC a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card an infrared interface and an IEEE 1394 fire wire just to name a few.

Communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals are preferably provided to communication interface via a communication channel . Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the computer system . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including hard disk drive removable storage medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the computer system .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into computer system by way of removable storage drive interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the computer system in the form of electrical communication signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing other than the appended claims.

