---

title: Unified user interface for network management systems
abstract: A network management system. In particular implementations, a method includes establishing a persistent session with one or more network management servers, where each persistent session is identified relative to a session identifier; authenticating one or more clients requesting access; receiving, from a client, a request to access a selected network management server of the one or more network management servers; generating a ticket for the client; and transmitting a redirection message to the client, where the redirection message identifies the selected network management server and includes the ticket and the session identifier corresponding to the selected network management server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650297&OS=08650297&RS=08650297
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08650297
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070314
---
Market adoption of wireless LAN WLAN technology has exploded as users from a wide range of backgrounds and vertical industries have brought this technology into their homes offices and increasingly into the public air space. This inflection point has highlighted not only the limitations of earlier generation systems but also the changing role that WLAN technology now plays in people s work and lifestyles across the globe. Indeed WLANs are rapidly changing from convenience networks to business critical networks. Increasingly users are depending on WLANs to improve the timeliness and productivity of their communications and applications and in doing so require greater visibility security management and performance from their network. To manage a large wireless network network management systems NMSs may be used where each NMS may map sections of the wireless network and provide information regarding various network elements such as wireless access points central controllers etc. Typically a network administrator logs in to each individual NMS directly to access detailed management functionalities of each NMS.

Particular implementations facilitate client access to one or more network management systems NMSs via a single user interface provided by a management portal. The client may access one or more of the network management systems in connection with various management operations e.g. monitoring configuring fault management etc. in a large network via the management portal. After the client establishes a current session with the management portal the client may then securely access the one or more NMSs seamlessly without having to sign on to each individual NMS.

According to one particular implementation the management portal maintains a persistent session with one or more NMSs where each persistent session is identified with a session identifier session ID . In one implementation the management portal periodically retrieves summary NMS data from each of the NMSs over the respective persistent sessions. The summary NMS data may include for example the status of various network infrastructure nodes e.g. controllers access points etc. that the NMS manages in the network. The management portal indexes pages of the managed NMSs in a management portal home page which the client has access to after the client establishes a current session with the management portal. In one implementation the client may access a NMS home page or other page by selecting an NMS from a page provided by the management portal. As describe in more detail below on one implementation when the client transmits a request for an NMS home page or other page served by an NMS the management portal redirects the client to the selected NMS in one implementation the redirection message transmitted to the client includes a ticket and the session ID that identifies the persistent session between the management portal and the selected NMS. When the NMS receives a request from the client resulting from the redirection message the NMS validates the session ID and transmits the ticket to the management portal for validation. After validating the ticket the management portal sends a validation message to the NMS. The NMS then generates a session ID for the client and sends the session ID and the requested page to the client. At this point the client has access to the NMS via the NMS home page. In one implementation the client may perform searches associated with one or more NMSs by sending search requests to the management portal. In one implementation if the search involves multiple NMSs the management portal may function as a proxy for the client and retrieve the search results on behalf of the client and transmit a search results page including search results retrieved from multiple NMSs. In one implementation if a user clicks on one of the links in the search results page the client may be redirected by the management portal to the NMS identified in the selected result as above.

Although implementations of the invention can operate in a variety of network infrastructures including wired and wireless networks operation in connection with a wireless network is described for didactic purposes. illustrates example components in a wireless local area network WLAN system. In a specific embodiment the system includes controllers and local area networks LANs and routers and and wireless access points and . LANs are implemented by a switch or an array of switches and or other network devices such as bridges.

In one implementation the WLAN system also includes data centers and which include network management systems NMSs and network management portals and and data stores and respectively. In one implementation a management portal may be a light weight central network management server. In particular implementations an NMS may be a Wireless Control System WCS offered by Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. operative to manage one or more elements of a wireless network infrastructure.

As illustrates these network elements are operably connected to networks and . Networks in one implementation generally refer to computer networks such as a LANs a WANs etc. that include one or more intermediate network devices e.g. routers switches etc. which allow for the transmission of messages between the management portals NMSs and clients via wireless access points . Of course networks can include a variety of network segments transmission technologies and components such as terrestrial WAN links satellite links optical fiber links and cellular links. Networks may also be campus LANs. LANs may be LANs LAN segments implemented by Ethernet switches or arrays of switches having multiple ports to which wireless access points are connected. The wireless access points are typically connected to switch ports via Ethernet links however other link layer connection protocols or communication means can be employed. illustrates one possible network environment in which the invention may operate however other implementations are possible. For example although management portals and NMSs are illustrated as being on a different LAN or LAN segment they may be co located with wireless access points .

The wireless access points are operative to wireless communicate with remote client devices and . In one implementation the wireless access points implement the wireless network protocol specified in the IEEE 802.11 WLAN specification of course other wireless network protocols may be used. The wireless access points may be autonomous or so called fat wireless access points or light weight wireless access points operating in connection with a wireless switch not illustrated . In addition the network infrastructure may also include a Wireless LAN Solution Engine WLSE offered by Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. or another wireless network management system.

The elements of hardware system are described in greater detail below. In particular network interface provides communication between hardware system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network etc. Mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described functions implemented in the system controller whereas system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by processor . I O ports are one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to hardware system .

Hardware system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of hardware system may be rearranged. For example cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively cache and processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core. Furthermore certain implementations of the present invention may not require nor include all of the above components. For example the peripheral devices shown coupled to standard I O bus may couple to high performance I O bus . In addition in some implementations only a single bus may exist with the components of hardware system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore hardware system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

As discussed above in one embodiment the operations of the management portal and NMSs described herein are implemented as a series of software routines run by hardware system . These software routines comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as processor . Initially the series of instructions are stored on a storage device such as mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable storage medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM EEPROM etc. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via network communication interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as mass storage into memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

An operating system manages and controls the operation of hardware system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. According to one embodiment of the present invention the operating system is the Windows 95 98 NT XP Vista operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. However the present invention may be used with other suitable operating systems such as the apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems LINUX operating systems and the like.

As shows the management portal establishes a persistent session with one or more MNSs that the management portal with which it has been configured to interact. More specifically in one implementation the management portal has a client function where the management portal prelogs into each NMS using one or more credentials e.g. IP address username password etc. authenticates with each NMS and maintains a persistent session e.g. an HTTP SSL over HTTP or HTTPS session with each NMS . As discussed above each persistent session is identified by a unique session ID. In one implementation the management portal performs keep alive processes e.g. every 5 minutes to keep the current session from expiring. In one implementation if the session is lost e.g. times out the management portal may automatically log in to reestablish session connectivity. As described in more detail below in connection with in one implementation the management portal also collects summary NMS data from each of the NMSs . As discussed below this summary data can be presented to a user upon an initial log in to the management portal .

As described in more detail below after a client logs in to the management portal the client may transparently access one or more NMSs via the management portal without having to log into the individual NMSs .

Referring again to the client logs in to the management portal in a particular implementation by sending a HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP request to the management portal receiving an HTTP response i.e. log in form from the management portal and then sending a request with a challenge response e.g. log in form completed with user credentials such as user name and password to the management portal . If the management portal successfully authenticates the client the management portal creates a session ID for the client and in one implementation sends a network management home page to the client . In one implementation the management portal may send the session ID in a browser cookie in other implementations management portal may use server side session management and maintain the session ID internally until needed. illustrates an implementation of an example user interface showing a management portal home page. As shows the management portal home page indexes pages from the NMSs that the management portal manages. The management portal home page in a particular implementation also displays the summary NMS data collected such as current status of the NMSs alarms currently raised on any of the NMSs etc. . In particular implementations the pages provided by management portal include hypertext links with URLs directed to the management portal and including encoded parameters corresponding to respective NMSs. In one implementation clicking on one of the links causes a browser hosted on client to transmit a request to management portal which responds with a redirection message as described more fully below that causes the client to access a selected network management server.

In addition to tracking NMS related information the management portal may also track client information such as tickets time stamps client IP address etc. As described in more detail below in connection with such client information may be used to redirect a given client to a given NMS. Through the management home page the user of the client may click on one of the listed NMSs to access the selected NMS. For example from the management portal home page the user may click on an NMS IP address e.g. 100.13.0.10 to get redirected to an NMS home page.

If the management portal has a valid session with the NMS the management portal generates a ticket . In one implementation a ticket is a secured random number for the user. In one implementation the management portal stores the ticket in a hash value and the hash value may have one or more of the following attributes the IP address of the NMS the user s management portal session ID and a timestamp of ticket generation. In one implementation the ticket may have an expiration time e.g. 30 seconds . The management portal then transmits the ticket and session ID NMS in a redirect message to redirect the user browser hosted on client to the selected NMS . More specifically in one implementation the management portal redirects the user browser to the appropriate URL through an http status code with no caching indicated in the http header field. The management portal appends the redirect URL with one or more of the following additional parameters in one implementation as cgi parameters ticket session ID corresponding to selected NMS and management portal address e.g. https wcs1 webacs monitorMap.do serviceDomainId 333 ticket sessionId portalAddress .

In one implementation the NMS may utilize an authentication filter e.g. a tomcat authentication filter to determine if there is already an on going valid session with the client. If not the authentication filter may determine if the URL request has as request parameters a ticket session ID of the management portal and a management portal address. This confirms whether the URL request came from the management portal redirect.

The NMS sends a ticket to the management portal so that the management portal can validate the ticket for the user IP address. In one implementation the validation may be performed using an Apache HTTP client API e.g. https portalIpAddr webacs ticketValidationAction.do ticket userIpAddress . In another implementation the validation may be performed using a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP application programming interface API to validate the ticket.

Referring again to the NMS receives the validation response from the management portal and based on information in the validation response determines whether the ticket is valid . In one implementation if the ticket is invalid the NMS may redirect the user back e.g. through HTTP to the management home page and log a security warning . If the ticket is valid the NMS generates a session ID for the session between it and client . In one implementation the NMS sets the permissions it received from the management portal . This ensures that the user has the same type of role and permissions on the NMS as the client has on the management portal.

The NMS then composes an NMS home page and sends the NMS home page to the client . In one implementation the NMS also includes a cookie with the NMS home page in order to keep track of a user in case the user session timeouts. If the user session were to time out the NMS may redirect the user browser back to the management portal login page instead of the NMS login page.

In one implementation the user may search for any network node e.g. controller wireless access point client rogue wireless access point rogue client location servers tags alarms events etc. throughout the WLAN based on various search parameters. In one implementation the management portal performs an efficient hierarchical context specific search and retrieves current information as requested by retrieving data stored at the management portal data stored at the NMS and or data stored at location servers managed by the NMS . The data is retrieved and the search result shown in a list view on a search results page. Clicking on any displayed item in one implementation redirects the client to the corresponding NMS page with detailed information for the item fetched directly from a network node such as a controller .

In one implementation if the management portal receives a search request for information associated with a given NMS e.g. an on demand query the management portal redirects the client to that NMS as described above. In some particular implementations the management portal may function as a proxy and serves as a single point of entry for requests from the client browser. In some implementations the management portal functions as proxy if the management portal receives a request from a given client for multiple nodes. When the user clicks on an NMS link search item or main NMS link in the user interface of the management portal home page instead of performing a redirect the management portal itself functions as a web client and posts the URL to the NMS . Accordingly the response received from NMS is then sent back to the browser by modifying the URLs so that any click on the NMS home page will be passed to the management portal so that the management portal will make the request to the NMS .

When the management portal performs one or more on demand queries on behalf of the client the management portal may perform multiple searches in a given session. In one implementation the search results do not get saved in the database but are sent directly to the client to be displayed in the user browser e.g. management portal home page .

In one implementation there may be multiple distributed management portals where a given NMS may accept current sessions with two or more management portals. As such a given NMS may be managed simultaneously by multiple management portals. If managed by multiple management portals the NMS would know which portal to authenticate during a redirect process since the appropriate identifying information e.g. Session ID IP address etc. is passed in along with the ticket.

The present invention has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the present invention have been described as operating in connection with IEEE 802.11 networks the present invention can be used in connection with any suitable wireless network environment. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the present invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

