---

title: Three-dimensional movie browser or editor
abstract: A three-dimensional movie browser or editor is disclosed. In one aspect, video frames are quads in space. A movie plays at full quality by moving the quads in space at a speed of the movie and having a camera follow the quads. A focus frame in the movie is put forward by a cover-flow/dock like expansion around it. Video frames are loaded at a resolution and with an interval that depends on their position regarding a focus point or the optical flow between the frames.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08395660&OS=08395660&RS=08395660
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08395660
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071213
---
A hallmark of modern movie browsers or editors is that they display video frames of a movie in a two dimensional display environment. The video frames are tiled in the two dimensional display environment on a display screen. This environment may require multiple screens or display small video frames on a single screen making the result overwhelming. If multiple screens are used users may find it difficult to browse through the multiple screens. If a single screen is used the small display size of the video frames may make it difficult for users to browse or edit them. In addition the two dimensional display environment may make it difficult for the user to gain a holistic view of the video frames.

For example users may find it difficult to navigate through multiple screens or through small video frames on a single screen to determine a focus point. Selecting video frames can also be difficult as the user may have to navigate through multiple screens or through small video frames on a single screen to select the video frames. The two dimensional environment may also make it difficult for users to judge temporal distance between video frames or compare video frames. The two dimensional environment may also use a large amount of resources as the video frames are displayed at a single resolution.

A three dimensional movie browser or editor is disclosed. In one aspect video frames are quads in space. A movie plays at full quality by moving the quads in space at a speed of the movie and having a camera follow the quads. A focus frame in the movie is put forward by a cover flow dock like expansion around it. Video frames are loaded at a resolution and with an interval that depends on their position regarding a focus point or the optical flow between the frames.

Other implementations of a three dimensional movie browser or editor are disclosed including implementations directed to methods and computer readable mediums.

The three dimensional display environment can be implemented in many ways. In some implementations a reflective surface is used to reinforce the three dimensional characteristic of the environment. Reflections of video frames image analysis tools etc. appear in the reflective surface. In some implementations the three dimensional display environment is composed of blank space. For example the environment can have a background of a pure color e.g. black. In other implementations the three dimensional display environment can be displayed using a grid. For example the background can include a visual grid that displays an x y and z axis.

The timeline is not constrained to the form of a straight line. In some implementations the timeline is displayed in the form of a geometric shape. For example the timeline can be displayed in the form of a rectangle triangle circle or an oval. The timeline can also be displayed in the form of a linear path other than a straight line. For example the timeline can be displayed in a parabola sine wave cosine wave triangular wave or square wave.

The user interacts with the browser by manipulating navigational elements navigational controls and selection controls . The navigational elements can allow the user to switch among different camera angles to view the three dimensional display environment. For example the user can view the environment from 360 degrees along any axis e.g. and . In some implementations the navigational controls allow the user to zoom in on a particular area of the three dimensional display environment e.g. FIGS. and . For example the user can select pre determined zoom views or the user can manually zoom in to a particular area of the three dimensional display environment. In yet other implementations the user uses the navigational elements to flip or rotate the video frames to view them from a different angle e.g. .

Navigation controls are used to control the playback speed of the movie data or video frames. Examples of such navigation controls include play rewind fast forward pause next frame and previous frame. In some implementations the navigational controls are used to navigate among different sets of movie data that are located by using the file browser . Examples of such navigation controls include next movie and previous movie.

Selection controls are used to select video frames from the movie data. For example selection controls can include start end reset and export. The start and end controls are used to select one or more video frames and the export control is used to export these video frames as a new set of movie data.

In some implementations the navigation controls and selection controls include controls relating to different user interactions. For example touch motions e.g. sliding a finger over the screen of an iPhone can be used to navigate among or select video frames. As another example pinching along the screen of an iPhone can be used to zoom in and out of views. As yet another example one or more taps on the screen of an iPhone can be used to select video frames. As another example the scroll wheel of an iPod can be used to navigate among and select video frames. Additional controls relating to other user interactions are possible.

In some implementations the navigation controls and selection controls are used to display or edit one or more movies in the browser. For example a user can use the file browser to display a first movie and a second movie. The user can then navigate among the video frames e.g. using the navigational controls select video frames e.g. using selection controls and export video frames for example from the first and second movies e.g. using the selection controls to create a third movie that can be browsed or edited in the browser.

In some implementations the user selects individual video frames. For example the use can perform a mouse click on an individual video frame to select the individual video frame. In other implementations the user selects two points along the timeline . By selecting the two points along the timeline the video frames along the portion of the timeline between the two points are selected. In yet other implementations the user uses the selection controls to select a start and end time on the timeline. By selecting the two times on the timeline the video frames along the portion of the timeline between the two times are selected.

After video frames are selected image processing tools are used to edit the selected video frames. Examples of image processing controls include geometric transformations such as enlargement reduction and rotation color corrections such as brightness and contrast adjustments quantization or conversion to a different color space registration or alignments of images combinations of images interpolation and demosaicing of images image segmentation image editing and digital retouching noise removal and image restoration such as deconvolution.

Image analysis tools e.g. histogram and histogram allow a user to analyze information from the video frames. In addition image analysis tools can be used to monitor the information from the video frames as they are edited. Examples of image analysis tools include image histograms image projections image apertures image profiles image scattergrams motion graphs e.g. graphs that show the optical flow or amount of motion between frames and image transforms e.g. Hough Transforms and Fast Fourier Transforms .

In some implementations the image analysis tools can be displayed by using controls for the image processing tools . For example a color correction tool can have a check box to display image histograms. When the check box is enabled image histograms e.g. histogram and histogram are displayed along the timeline proximate to the video frames. In some implementations the image analysis tools can have independent display controls.

Image analysis tools can be displayed in various locations in the three dimensional display environment. In some implementations an image analysis tool is displayed above the timeline proximate to the video frame it analyzes. In some implementations the image analysis tool is displayed in front of the timeline proximate to the video frame it analyzes. Alternatively the image analysis tool can also be displayed behind the video frame it analyzes. The image analysis tool can also remain hidden from the user s view until the user selects a video frame or determines a focus frame. Upon selection of a video frame or determination of a focus frame the image analysis tool is displayed proximate to the video frame it analyzes.

Returning to the user determines a focus frame as a focus point. For example the user can hover a cursor over a particular video frame and that video frame becomes a focus frame. In some implementations the user can hover a cursor over a time along the timeline proximate to a video frame or use navigational controls to pause at a certain time corresponding to a video frame. This video frame becomes a focus frame. In other implementations the user can perform a mouse click upon a video frame to determine the focus frame. In yet other implementations users can determine more than one focus frame. Furthermore the three dimensional movie browser or editor can also determine a video frame to be a default focus frame.

The interval can depend on the relative position of the video frames to the focus frame . In some implementations the interval decreases as the temporal distance between the video frames and the focus frame increases. For example a first video frame located immediately in time before the focus frame is displayed at a first interval relative to the focus frame. A second video frame located immediately in time before the first video frame is displayed at a second interval relative to the first video frame. The second interval is smaller than the first interval. A third video frame located immediately in time before the second video frame is displayed at a third interval relative to the second video frame. The third interval is smaller than the second interval. The intervals for the frames located in time after the focus frame are displayed in a similar manner based on the temporal distance between the video frames and the focus frame. The size of the interval decreases as the temporal distance between a video frame and the focus frame increases. In other implementations the first interval is larger than the second interval but the remaining intervals are equal to the second interval.

Alternatively the interval can depend on the optical flow or amount of motion between the frames. Displaying the video frames at an interval depending on the optical flow between the video frames allows a user to more easily view the most significant information of the video frames e.g. a new movie shot or a change in a movie shot while still viewing temporal information e.g. how long a movie shot lasts and where the movie shot is located in the movie data .

In some implementations the interval can be created along an axis other than the axis of the timeline. For example the interval can be created along an axis perpendicular to the timeline so that the interval appears to create vertical spreading among the focus frame and the other video frames.

The three dimensional movie browser or editor can display the video frames at different resolutions. All of the video frames can be initially displayed at a first resolution. Returning to after a focus frame is determined the focus frame is displayed at a second resolution. This second resolution is a greater resolution than the first resolution.

In some implementations the second resolution is a full temporal resolution. For example the quad that contains the focus frame can be used to play all of the video frames corresponding to the movie data. In another example the quad that contains the focus frame can be used to play the subset of the video frames that includes the focus frame and the video frames that temporally follow the focus frame. In yet another example the quad that contains the focus frame can be used to play the subset of video frames that includes the video frames that temporally precede the focus frame and end at the focus frame. In some implementations the second resolution is a full image resolution.

Image analysis tools and image processing tools can still be displayed in zoomed in views. is a screen shot showing the zoomed in view of a timeline at a location of a focus frame with video frames flipped or rotated of with image analysis tools displayed along the timeline proximate to the video frames.

In some implementations the three dimensional movie browser or editor can display even further zoomed in views. is a screen shot showing an even further zoomed in view of a timeline at a location of a focus frame with video frames flipped or rotated. The video frames are displayed at an interval along the timeline depending on the relative position of the video frames to the focus frame. is a screen shot showing the even further zoomed in view of a timeline at a location of a focus frame with video frames flipped or rotated of with image analysis tools displayed along the timeline proximate to the video frames.

In some implementations the points indicating the location of an identified object in the video frames are displayed in the video frames. The browser can display a linear path that connects these points through the video frames.

In some implementations the linear path has disconnects. For example if the identified object does not appear in certain video frames the displayed linear path can have disconnects to indicate the absence of the identified object from the video frames.

After obtaining movie data the browser displays video frames at a first resolution in a three dimensional display environment . The user can determine a focus frame . After determining a focus frame the browser displays the video frames at an interval depending on the relative position of the video frames to the focus frame . The browser also displays the focus frame at a second resolution .

After obtaining movie data the browser displays video frames in a three dimensional display environment . The user can identify one or more objects in a video frame to track . After determining one or more objects to track the browser displays a location of the one or more objects in each of the video frames along the timeline . The browser also displays a linear path along the timeline showing the movement of each identified object .

The OS kernel manages the resources and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

The library system provides various services applications running in the application layer. Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services etc. For example the browser can make use of such services as QuickTime Core Image Core Video and OpenGL .

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs e.g. Quartz Composer that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the three dimensional movie browser or editor.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors or cores of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits.

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network via a network interface. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In an implementation the system includes instructions defining an operating system stored in a data storage system . Example operating systems can include the MAC OS X series operating system the WINDOWS based operating system or other operating systems. Upon execution of the operating system instructions access to various system objects is enabled. Example system objects include data files the three dimensional movie browser or editor other applications functions windows etc. The network communication module allows the data storage system to communicate with the system .

To facilitate an intuitive user experience the system includes a graphical user interface that provides the user access to the various system objects and conveys information about the system to the user in an intuitive manner. Upon execution the UI engine and the graphics engine generate a graphical user interface at an output device .

While the three dimensional movie browser or editor is described herein with respect to a computer system it should be apparent that the disclosed implementations can be incorporated in or integrated with any electronics media players game devices mobile phones email devices personal digital assistants PDAs embedded devices televisions etc. For example a browser can be used on any user interface including but not limited to hardware devices e.g. desktops iPods and iPhones browser or application windows e.g. QuickTime iTunes Final Cut and iMovie and menu systems e.g. DVD menus and DVD scene searching tools .

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example elements of one or more implementations may be combined deleted modified or supplemented to form further implementations. As yet another example the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

