---

title: Small-scale shock reactivity and internal blast test
abstract: An apparatus for conducting a small-scale shock reactivity and internal blast test (SSBT), and a related test method that simulates a large scale test of explosive materials while employing small quantities of materials for the characterization. The apparatus includes a small scale shock reactivity test (SSRT) device, and an internal blast test device including a pressure chamber with an accessible interior, a pressure transducer, a multipurpose port provides an electrical connection to the shock reactivity test device, and a small gas port. The SSRT device is housed within the pressure chamber, and gases and materials produced during a small scale shock reactivity test are quasi-statically retained by the pressure chamber. The pressure transducer is in communication with an instrument that can display the pressure detected in the pressure chamber for analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07669460&OS=07669460&RS=07669460
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07669460
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070309
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to a test method for characterizing potentially explosive materials and more particularly a test method that simulates a large scale test of explosive materials while only employing very small quantities of materials for the characterization.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 669 753 assigned to the Government of the United States of America teaches that a small scale reactivity test i.e. SSRT can measure the shock reactivity of explosive materials. The SSRT as originally configured consisted of four detonators in four separate holes in a steel confinement apparatus bonded to an aluminum dent block. In the example ammonium nitrate formulations that have various levels of shock resistance are placed in the steel holes between the detonator and the aluminum dent block. Explosive performance is gauged by measuring the dent depth produced in the aluminum dent block.

While the related art test is useful for determining the prompt shock reaction of various explosive materials it fails to quantify the total energy available to internal blast that also includes delayed shock reaction and combustion of remaining reactants with the air. The selection of the detonator can influence the results of the test. That is some detonators are encapsulated in polymeric materials that can burn while in other detonators the detonating materials are encapsulated in non organic materials that have a lower level of heat contribution. The contribution of the detonator is particularly important when evaluating the total output of a small scale explosive event because unlike a large scale test where the contribution of the detonator is relatively small the detonator material in a small test can account for a significant portion of the total explosive material. For example in a large scale test the explosive material weighs 23 Kg whereas in an SSRT the explosive material is under 0.5 grams. In both tests the detonator such as RP 80 has 80 mg of PETN and 123 mg of RDX. In the large scale test the detonator explosives would account for only 9 10 of the total but in the small scale test the detonator explosives account for 40 or more.

Although related conventional art discusses a small scale reactivity test using conventional technology based on detonators containing polymeric materials a small scale reactivity test is needed that measures not only shock sensitivity and reactivity but also any ancillary reactions that occur in addition to the shock reaction where the tests takes into account factors that are an artifact of the small scale of the test. Furthermore while the SSRT measures the substantially instantaneous reaction it does not measure the internal blast reaction that is the total reaction. Unburned materials and gases given off by the initial reaction create a second slower burning reaction using the ambient oxygen and this second reaction contributes to the internal blast reaction. The sum of the shock reactivity reaction the fast reaction and the post reaction which is substantially a slower reaction constitutes the total reaction. e.g. the internal blast reaction . Further a test is needed to resolve the total reaction into its component reactions.

The inventors have devised an apparatus and a method for studying the internal blast. High confinement allows the use of small samples well below critical diameter to model the results of large scale explosions. The effect of excess fuel inside or outside the explosive is clearly seen and affects the correlation of quasi static pressure with heat of combustion. The invention is the apparatus and the method for conducting a small scale shock reactivity reaction and internal blast reaction test SSBT . The apparatus includes a small scale shock reactivity test SSRT device and an internal blast test device including a pressure chamber that has an accessible interior a pressure transducer having an output that is proportional to a pressure in the interior a multipurpose port that provides an electrical connection to the shock reactivity test device and a small gas port for flushing with a purge gas. The small scale shock reactivity test device is housed within the pressure chamber and gases and materials produced during a small scale shock reactivity test are quasi statically retained by the pressure chamber. The pressure transducer is in electrical communication with an instrument that can display the pressure detected in the pressure chamber. In an exemplary embodiment the pressure transducer is a piezo resistive transducer having a response time on the order of a few microseconds a pressure detection range up to 200 psi over a compensated temperature range of 25 to 232 C. An instrument suitable for displaying the signal received from the transducer is a digital oscilloscope sampling at a rate that is at least twice per millisecond and in an exemplary embodiment 50 times per millisecond.

The method for small scale shock reactivity and internal blast test includes the steps of initiating a small scale reactivity test device for producing an initial reaction by a detonator and an internal blast reaction produced by subsequent detonation of the test sample measuring the contribution of the detonator in an air filled pressure chamber to the small scale shock reactivity and internal blast test SSBT as indicated by a rise in a peak quasi static pressure D following initiation of the detonator measuring the contribution of the detonator in an inert gas filled pressure chamber to the SSBT as indicated by a rise in the peak quasi static pressure D following initiation of the detonator measuring the combined contribution of the detonator and a test explosive in an air filled pressure chamber to the SSBT as indicated by a rise in a peak quasi static pressure E following initiation of the detonator measuring the combined contribution of the detonator and a test explosive in an inert gas filled pressure chamber to the SSBT as indicated by a rise in a peak quasi static pressure E following initiation of the detonator and analyzing the results.

The pressure measurements are analyzed as to the shock reaction and addition of delayed reactions to the internal blast explosion. The increase in pressure that can be attributed to the shock reactivity SR of the detonator is D an increase in pressure that can be attributed to the slow burn reaction combustion of any remaining reactants in air SB of the detonator is D D an increase in pressure that can be attributed to the shock reactivity SR of the test explosive is E D a total increase internal blast IB in pressure that can be attributed to the test explosive is E D and an increase in pressure that can be attributed to the slow burn reaction combustion SB of any remaining reactants in air of the test explosive is E D E D where IB SR SB. The analysis quantifies the increase in internal blast explosion that occurs when ambient oxygen and unburned materials are present in the pressure chamber. If there is no oxygen present only inert nitrogen then there is substantially no secondary reaction as substantially few of the slow burn reactants combust following the shock reactivity explosion and SB SB 0.

The invention is the apparatus and the method for conducting a small scale shock reactivity reaction and internal blast reaction test SSBT . The apparatus is illustrated in . The apparatus includes a small scale shock reactivity test SSRT device and an internal blast test device . The internal blast test device includes a pressure chamber with an accessible interior . The pressure chamber is generally a cast aluminum rectangular chamber that in an exemplary embodiment has a volume of about 3 liters. The chamber includes a flanged vessel and a covering flanged top . The flanged vessel and the flanged top are sealed with at least one gasket type O ring and multiple bolts that connect the top flange to the vessel flange . A wall of the vessel has a transducer port that enables a pressure transducer to measure the pressure in the interior of the pressure vessel. In an exemplary embodiment the transducer is a piezo resistive transducer having a response time on the order of a few microseconds with a pressure detection range up to 200 psi over a compensated temperature range of 25 to 232 C. The Kulite XTE 190 transducer is a suitable transducer having an excellent response time and a rugged construction. Lead carries the signal from the transducer to an instrument not shown suitable for displaying the signal. A digital oscilloscope sampling at a rate that is at least twice per millisecond and in particular 50 times per millisecond is a suitable instrument. An example of the display instrument is a Nicolet Integra 40 oscilloscope. The pressure chamber has a small gas port for flushing the chamber with a purge gas. The purge gas is usually employed when it is desired to conduct the test with a substantially inert gas. The inert gas is selected from the group consisting of nitrogen helium neon and argon. Nitrogen is usually sufficiently inert and is relatively inexpensive as compared to the Nobel gases. The small gas port can optionally be sealed for instance with a valve or be left open. The pressure chamber also has a multipurpose port that provides an electrical connection via leads to the shock reactivity test device . The multipurpose port in addition to providing a passage for the leads to the detonator also serves as an outlet port when purge gases are employed and produces a quasi static pressure in the chamber during the SSBT test because the gases in the chamber are heated by the SSRT test and gases formed by the explosion contribute to the total moles of gases contained in the chamber. For a brief period of time following ignition the conditions inside the chamber are essentially static as there is not sufficient time to significantly drain down the pressure. Hence the pressure in the chamber is quasi static because the chamber is sealed except for the multipurpose port. Pressure decays as the product gases cool and slowly vent through the multipurpose port . In the SSBT the pressure decays by 80 90 in 0.5 s.

The SSRT device in the illustrated embodiment is positioned on the floor of the pressure chamber . The SSRT device includes in an exemplary embodiment a steel containment block with a center bore cavity an aluminum alloy witness block having an upper surface that is flush adhered to a bottom surface of the steel containment block an electrically actuated detonator mounted in the center bore cavity and a test cavity located in the center bore cavity between the witness block and the detonator . In an alternate exemplary embodiment the test cavity which may contain a test explosive material is located in the center bore cavity between the witness block and a gap or space where the gap is situated intermediate the test cavity and the detonator . In an exemplary embodiment a detonator is illustrated in . The detonator includes leads extending into a header where the header extends into a sleeve . The sleeve forms a cavity containing a portion of the header and also contains an explosive material such as for example PETN. The header may be situated above the explosive so the leads which extend through the header may initiate the explosive material to produce an initial reaction. Upon subsequent ignition of the explosive material test material not shown in the test cavity may ignite and burn which produces the internal blast reaction that is the desired output of the test.

In an exemplary embodiment the detonator is a special bare version of the Teledyne RISI RP 80 detonator having a sleeve that is available in Delrin a polyoxymethylene polymer manufactured by Dupont or available in brass. In an exemplary embodiment the sleeve may be brass as it contributes less to the quasi static pressure produced by the detonator alone. In an exemplary embodiment the header may be made from glass. An unexpected result is that the header made from glass provided superior performance by increasing the accuracy of the inventive small scale shock reactivity and internal blast test compared to conventional headers composed of glass and plastic or polymeric material for example glass fiber filled plastic headers. In particular the header made from the glass contains no fuel material that is no plastic or polymeric material and generates a very minimal energy output during the initial reaction and more particularly about zero Joules energy output when burned that is initiated during the initial reaction or detonation. Accordingly the explosive contributes the majority of the energy output Joules during the initial reaction whereas the header contributes about zero Joules energy output during the initial reaction.

In contrast in the conventional glass fiber filled plastic header the plastic component is a fuel material which generates energy Joules when burned. The presence of the plastic component about doubles the energy output when the conventional header with plastic is burned compared to the header made from glass without a plastic or polymeric component. In an exemplary embodiment the inventive test using a header made from glass material as indicated below results in a more accurate measurement of the test explosive material. As indicated a conventional glass filled plastic header produces significant energy independent of the energy generated from the test explosive material thus overwhelming the test process with its energy output.

Accordingly the large energy output from the glass filled plastic header significantly masks and skews the results by decreasing the ability to measure accurately the actual energy output and other related test parameters of the test explosive material located in the test cavity .

 Burned means being exposed to a high temperature and pressure of an explosive charge as well oxygen from air and the detonation product gases.

The aluminum alloy witness block in an exemplary embodiment is a 6063 aluminum alloy having a T5 temper. This alloy is a relatively soft aluminum. In the illustrated embodiment the SSRT device is seated on a Lexan pad where Lexan is a polycarbonate polymer manufactured by General Electric.

The pressure chamber was cast aluminum with internal dimensions 15 15 12.5 cm with 1.3 cm wall thickness AXJ664 N4 made by Akron Electric Inc. and scaled closely to a large scale chamber. The rectangular geometry was presumed to give good air mixing. The chamber was sealed except for a 3 mm multipurpose port for detonator leads and a small gas port for flushing. A pressure transducer was centrally mounted in one chamber wall . The SSRT device included a steel block that is 51 51 25 mm high. The center bore had a diameter of 7.24 mm. The witness block was 51 51 25 mm high and adhered to the steel block with a thermoset adhesive. Leads which were Teflon coated entered and were attached to the detonator which was made of glass without plastic. The chamber pressure was measured with a Kulite XTE 190 piezo resistive transducer having a response time of a few microseconds. The transducer was powered by a 9V battery and recorded without amplification on a Nicolet Integra 40 oscilloscope with a 5 ms pre trigger in all tests.

The graph shown in illustrates the contribution of the detonator and the significant effect of the type of atmosphere on the quasi static pressure attained in the test. The SSRT test was run with no sample in pressure chamber filled with nitrogen D and filled with air D . The detonator has 0.204 g of pentaerythritol tetranitrate PETN and from inspection in the absence of air the quasi static pressure D was about 1.0 bar after 10 ms. In the presence of air the quasi static pressure D was about 2.9 bar after 10 ms. When the test cavity was filled with 0.3 g of HMX Class 1 powder the quasi static pressure E was about 1.4 bar after 10 ms. not much higher than the detonator alone D . In air the 0.3 g of HMX Class 1 powder produced a quasi static pressure E of about 6.3 bar after 10 ms. The increase in pressure that can be attributed to the shock reactivity explosion SRof the detonator is 1.0 bar D . The increase in pressure that can be attributed to the slow burn reaction SBof the detonator is 1.75 bar D D for a total internal blast of the detonator contribution of 2.75 bar D .

The total increase in pressure that can be attributed to the internal blast of the test explosive was IB where IBincluded a shock reaction component SRand a slow burn reaction component SB or alternatively stated IBwas E D where Dwas the contribution by the detonator made of glass without plastic. The total increase in pressure attributed to the 0.3 g of HMX explosive then was 3.55 bar 6.3 2.75 . The increase in pressure attributed to the shock reactivity explosion SRof the test explosive was 0.3 bar E D or 1.3 1 . The slow burn component SBthen was IB SR which was 3.25 bar 3.55 0.3 . The SSBT can resolve the explosion into each of the reaction mechanisms and accommodate for the effect of the detonator.

A fifth line on the graph was a test explosive mixture of 0.3 g of HMX and 0.075 g of finely ground aluminum 8 microns . A 20 addition of aluminum resulted in an increase in pressure to 7 bar 10 ms after detonation. After subtracting out the contribution of the detonator there was a total pressure increase attributed to the test explosive IB of 4.25 bar 7 2.75 . 4.25 bar was a 20 increase over 3.55 illustrating the linearity of the test method.

As can be seen from the graph in the shock wave produced by the detonation of the test explosive and the detonator without plastic itself reverberates inside of the pressure chamber essentially producing a ringing. The ringing was evidenced by the vibration of the quasi static pressure decaying in a matter of 10 20 ms.

The method for conducting a small scale shock reactivity and internal blast test included the steps of measuring the contribution of the detonator in an air filled pressure chamber to the small scale shock reactivity and internal blast test SSBT as indicated by a rise in a peak quasi static pressure D following ignition of the detonator measuring the contribution of the detonator in an inert gas filled pressure chamber to the SSBT as indicated by a rise in the peak quasi static pressure D following ignition of the detonator measuring the combined contribution of the detonator and a test explosive in an air filled pressure chamber to the SSBT as indicated by a rise in a peak quasi static pressure E following ignition of the detonator measuring the combined contribution of the detonator and a test explosive in an inert gas filled pressure chamber to the SSBT as indicated by a rise in a peak quasi static pressure E following ignition of the detonator and analyzing pressure measurements as to the shock reactivity explosion and the slow burn reaction. The increase in pressure attributed to the shock reactivity explosion SR of the detonator was D an increase in pressure attributed to the slow burn reaction SB of the detonator was D D an increase in pressure attributed to the shock reactivity explosion SR of the test explosive was E D a total increase IB in pressure attributed to the explosion of the test explosive was E D and an increase in pressure attributed to the slow burn reaction SB of the test explosive was E D E D where IB SR SB. The slow burn reaction occurs when ambient oxygen and unburned materials are present in the pressure chamber.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

