---

title: Image enhancer for detecting and identifying objects in turbid media
abstract: An image enhancer that includes a laser for emitting an optical signal toward an object in a turbid medium, a modulator for modulating laser intensity of the optical signal, an RF source for driving the modulator and for providing a reference signal, an optical detector for detecting the modulated optical signal that is reflected from the object, the optical detector converting the reflected optical signal into an electrical signal, the electrical signal having RF and DC components, an I/Q demodulator for mixing the RF component of the electrical signal with the reference signal and producing in-phase and quadrature phase signal components that can be digitized and processed such that both contrast and range images of the object are produced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08044999&OS=08044999&RS=08044999
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08044999
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070306
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to an image enhancer for detecting and identifying objects in turbid media. More specifically but without limitation the present invention relates to a laser system that can detect and identify objects in turbid media.

Laser systems have been and are continuing to be developed to detect and identify objects in turbid media examples of turbid media include but without limitation seawater clouds and tissue . Operating a laser imaging system in such an environment is challenging due to the fact that light is both absorbed and scattered. Although the optical wavelength is typically selected to minimize absorption the scattering experienced by an optical signal can severely degrade image quality. In highly turbid media there may be plenty of light scattered back from the object of interest but it is buried in the signal returning from the surrounding environment. A method for separating the unscattered or minimally scattered image bearing photons from the scattered background light can be used to improve object detection and identification.

Several techniques have been developed for reducing the detrimental effects of scattered light. These approaches can be categorized according to the type of laser source and receiver combination and the scanning method used to create the image. All these types of systems are capable of creating an image whether it is a synchronously scanned narrow beam and a narrow receiver field of view narrow narrow or a flood illuminated scene with a multiple pixel receiver wide narrow . The decision as to which configuration provides the best performance depends directly on the task at hand i.e. above water or below water operation size and depth of underwater object water optical properties etc. .

One type of known system is the Laser Line Scan LLS system. The Laser Line Scan LLS system includes a well collimated continuous wave source and a narrow field of view receiver that are synchronously scanned over the object of interest. The bistatic configuration limits the common volume created by the source and receiver field of view overlap and reduces the contribution from scattered light. However since the system uses a continuous wave source no inherent time depth information is present in the detected signal and post processing using triangulation methods must be used to obtain object range information.

Pulsed laser sources are also used in several underwater laser imaging systems to temporally discriminate against scattered light and to provide object range information. In the operation of a typical range gated imaging system a short 10 20 nsec pulse is transmitted to a distant object and the receiver is timed to open only when the reflected light returns from the object. A typical configuration is broad beam illumination of the scene and a gated intensified camera receiver although systems using photomultiplier tube receivers in both single and multiple pixel configurations have also been utilized. The Streak Tube Imaging Lidar STIL uses a pulsed laser transmitter in a scannerless configuration. Instead of scanning the laser beam a fan of light is used to illuminate a volume of water. The streak tube receiver can measure both the amplitude and range time of the collected slit of light and a three dimensional image is created when the system is operated from a moving platform. While the range gated and STIL approaches are effective in minimizing background light the sensitivity is ultimately limited by small angle forward scattered light that induces image blurring.

Another type of underwater imager encompasses those that use temporal modulation of the transmitted light and subsequent synchronous detection of the modulation envelope at the receiver. The Underwater Scannerless Range Imager USRI uses a radio frequency modulation source that is coupled to both the timing of the laser transmitter and the gain of the image intensified CCD receiver. Object range information is obtained by measuring the phase difference between the transmitted and reflected signals simultaneously for each pixel of the receiver. However multiple frames are required using different modulation schemes in order to extract the range information and to differentiate changes due to range variations from those due to intensity variations in the scene. Previous configurations used continuous wave sources but a recent configuration implements a pulsed source and a range gated receiver to minimize the volumetric backscatter signal.

Researchers at the Naval Air Systems Command NAVAIR are also developing a system that uses temporal modulation of the transmitted optical signal. However in this approach the optical receiver consists of a photodetector with sufficient bandwidth to recover the modulation envelope encoded on the optical signal. The resulting radio frequency signal is then processed using traditional radar signal processing techniques. This approach reduces the contribution by volumetric backscatter by using a modulation frequency that becomes strongly decorrelated with respect to the transmitted signal due to multiple scattering. A gain in image contrast is achieved when the modulation envelope emanating from an underwater object remains coherent relative to the original modulation signal. The phase information encoded on the detected modulation signal is processed to obtain object range information.

In previous embodiments of this modulated imaging system approach a spectrum analyzer was used to produce the signal and the system produced a so called magnitude image that was shown to have a nonlinear dependence on the object albedo the term albedo may be defined but without limitation as ratio of the amount of electromagnetic energy reflected by a surface to the amount of energy incident upon it or the fraction of radiation striking a surface that is reflected by that surface . This non linearity created a variety of sometimes unexpected features such as contrast inversion appearance of false elements in the image patterns and the emphasizing of the outlines in object albedo patterns. In this system configuration the irradiance distribution in the image plane is not proportional to the actual reflectivity of the object the image is distorted and its identification is difficult if impossible. This non linearity is the main drawback of the conventional magnitude signal registration of previous system configurations.

For the foregoing reasons there is a need for an image enhancer for detecting and identifying objects in turbid media.

The present invention is directed to an image enhancer that meets the needs enumerated above and below.

The present invention is directed to an image enhancer for detecting and identifying objects in turbid media. The image enhancer includes a laser for emitting an optical signal toward an object in a turbid medium a modulator for modulating laser intensity of the optical signal a radio frequency RF source for driving the modulator and for providing a reference signal an optical detector for detecting the modulated optical signal that is reflected from the object the optical detector converting the reflected optical signal into an electrical signal the electrical signal having RF and direct current DC components an in phase and quadrature I Q demodulator for mixing the RF component of the electrical signal with the reference signal and producing in phase and quadrature phase signal components that can be filtered digitized and processed such that both contrast and range images of the object are produced.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an image enhancer that provides a clearer image of an object in turbid media.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an image enhancer wherein the image is linear with respect to the object albedo.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an image enhancer wherein the phase of the RF reference signal is matched to the backscatter phase.

It is a feature of the present invention to provide an image enhancer wherein modulation frequency is chosen so that the backscatter and subject signals can be analyzed separately at the receiver.

The preferred embodiments of the present invention are illustrated by way of example below and in . As seen in the image enhancer for detecting and identifying objects in turbid media includes a laser for emitting an optical signal toward an object in a turbid medium the medium in is water however the image enhancer may be used in any type of turbid medium a modulator for modulating laser intensity of the optical signal a radio frequency RF source for driving the modulator and for providing a reference signal an optical detector for detecting the modulated optical signal that is reflected from the object the reflected detected optical signal the optical detector converting the reflected optical signal into an electrical signal a bias T for separating the electrical signal into an RF component and a DC component and an I Q demodulator for mixing the RF component of the electrical signal with the reference signal and producing an in phase signal component I and a quadrature phase signal component Q that can be filtered digitized and processed such that both contrast and range images of the object are produced. As shown in the I Q demodulator may be analog however any type of I Q demodulator may be utilized as practicable.

In the description of the present invention the invention will be discussed in a turbid environment specifically water however this invention can be utilized for any type of need that requires use of an image enhancer. The image enhancer may be used but without limitations in military operations search missions and biomedical imaging in tissue.

As shown in the preferred embodiment of the image enhancer includes a first low pass filter and a second low pass filter . The in phase signal component I may pass through the first low pass filter and the quadrature phase signal component Q may pass through the second low pass filter so that any high frequency components may be removed from the two components. The image enhancer may include a fast analog to digital converter and a data processor . The filtered signals Iand Q may be digitized by the analog to digital converter and then processed by the data processor . The data processor produces contrast and range images of the object . The data processor utilizes the individual in phase signal component I and the quadrature phase signal component Q when producing the images.

In another embodiment of the invention the DC component of the electrical signal is passed through a third low pass filter . The filtered DC component may then be digitized simultaneously with the filtered in phase signal component Iand the filtered quadrature phase signal component Q. The filtered DC component is indicative of the baseline performance of an imager without modulation and is used for comparison purposes.

The operation of the preferred I Q demodulator can be best described by referring to . In the signal components shown are representative of those encountered when operating the system in an underwater environment. The RF component of the electrical signal A t has two components one which is due to the object of interest or target A t and one which is due to the backscatter or background signal A t . The RF component of the electrical signal may be represented by the following equations 

where Aand Aare the amplitudes of the object signal and backscatter signal respectively is the radial frequency t is time and and are the corresponding phases of the object and background in a given medium .

The I Q demodulator may also include a zero degree splitter a ninety degree splitter a first mixer and a second mixer . The splitters and mixers may be digital analog or any type practicable. The zero degree splitter separates the A t signal the RF component of the electrical signal into equal components 0.5 A t that are applied to the two different mixers and . The reference signal A t produced by the RF source is also input to the I Q demodulator and can be described by the following equation sin Equation 3 wherein Ais the amplitude of the reference signal is the radial frequency t is time and is the corresponding phase of the reference signal . The reference signal is phase locked to the radio frequency signal that is used to modulate the optical signal . The ninety degree splitter separates the A t signal the reference signal into two components an in phase reference signal portion and an out of phase reference signal portion . The in phase reference signal portion described as 0.5Asin t is in phase with the original A t signal or reference signal and the out of phase reference signal portion described as 0.5Acos t is ninety degrees out of phase with the original signal or reference signal . One of the in phase components of the A t signal 0.5 A t and the in phase reference signal portion 0.5Asin t are mixed by the first mixer . The first mixer may be a RF mixer. The output from the first mixer may then be passed through the first low pass filter to produce the filtered in phase signal component I. The following equation describes the filtered in phase signal component I assuming a lossless I Q demodulator and a lossless low pass filter 0.125cos cos . Equation 4 

The quadrature phase signal component Q is produced by mixing the other in phase component of the A t signal 0.5 A t with the A t signal component that is ninety degrees out of phase the out of phase reference signal portion and it is described as 0.5 Acos t . The other in phase component of the RF component of the electrical signal 0.5 A t and the out of phase reference signal portion are mixed by the second mixer . The output from the second mixer may then be passed through the second low pass filter to produce the filtered quadrature phase signal component Q. The following equation describes the filtered quadrature phase signal component Q assuming a lossless I Q demodulator and a lossless low pass filter 0.125sin sin . Equation 5 The filtered in phase signal component Iand the filtered quadrature phase signal component Qare then digitized simultaneously by the analog to digital converter and processed by the data processor such that contrast and range images are produced.

The main advantage of using the I Q demodulator instead of a spectrum analyzer or other types of components used in previous system configurations can be understood by studying the equations relevant to the two receiver approaches. The signal that is captured when using the previous spectrum analyzer approach is the magnitude M of the detected RF signal the detected signal square root over square root over 2cos . Equation 6 

It is evident from Equation 6 that the magnitude is nonlinear with respect to the object return amplitude A except when 0 . However upon looking at Equations 4 and 5 it is clear that the filtered in phase signal component Iand the filtered quadrature phase signal component Q as well as the unfiltered signal components are linear with respect to A. Furthermore the reference signal phase can be varied to optimize the images produced with the filtered in phase signal component Iand the filtered quadrature phase signal component Q. For example when 0.125cos 0.125sin . Equations 7 and 8 

While the filtered in phase signal component Istill contains both object A and backscatter A amplitude components the filtered quadrature phase signal component Qcontains only the object amplitude component A. Furthermore if a modulation frequency is chosen so that the object and backscatter signals are ninety degrees out of phase n 2 where n is an odd integer then 0.125 0.125A. Equations 9 and 10 

In this case the filtered in phase signal component Iis dependent on the backscatter amplitude and the filtered quadrature phase signal component Qis directly proportional to the object amplitude. Therefore this approach enables us to separate the object and backscatter signal components from the composite return signal. This was not possible with the previous inventions that measured only the return signal magnitude which is independent of the reference signal phase and contains both object and backscatter components.

The method for selecting the modulation frequency is based upon observing the frequency dependence of the magnitude of the RF signal M f . In the past it was observed in both experimental and computer simulation results that under certain conditions maxima and minima were observed in the dependence of M on the modulation frequency. The cause of these signal amplitude fluctuations as a function of modulation frequency was found to be due to constructive and destructive interference of the modulation envelope between the backscatter and object return signals. Therefore the features of M f are dependent on the phase difference between the object and backscatter return signals . This is shown in where both M described in Equation 6 and plotted as line in and plotted as line of are plotted as a function of modulation frequency the backscatter phase was measured by removing the object from the water . The peak in M f constructive interference shown as in is due to a object backscatter phase difference of 0. Similarly the dips in M f destructive interference shown as in correspond to a object backscatter phase difference of n where n is an odd integer. In the past the modulation frequency was selected so that it satisfied either of these conditions i.e. constructive or destructive interference . However in the current invention the modulation frequency that satisfies the condition where n 2 where n is an odd integer is desired. These frequencies are those that lie between the two extremes shown as and in . Furthermore it is also desired to select a reference signal phase so that . If the object phase can be measured with another sensor such as an acoustic altimeter then the backscatter phase can be calculated by n 2 and the reference signal phase can be adjusted so that .

To illustrate the advantages of the current invention experimental results obtained using the old methods and the current invention will now be compared. The results obtained without modulation will also be shown to provide a baseline performance level. The target or object used for these measurements was a flat piece of metal with a bulls eye pattern and is shown in . In the image results are shown for a target at a depth of 2.8 m in water with a beam attenuation coefficient of 1.8 m. The image obtained using the DC signal with no modulation is shown in the first panel of and has reduced black white contrast relative to the above water target shown in . The images obtained using previously known methods using the magnitude of the return signal shown in the second and third panels of have improved contrast relative to the DC image. However the image corresponding to a destructive interference condition has a contrast that is inverted i.e. the black part appears white and the white part appears black . The image obtained using the present invention fourth panel of has a better contrast than utilizing the previously known methods. Another set of results obtained in slightly more turbid water beam attenuation coefficient was 2 m is shown in . Here the advantage of the present invention is even much more evident. The first panel of shows an image obtained with no modulation the second and third panels of show images obtained using previously known methods while the fourth panel of shows the image obtained utilizing the present invention.

An additional advantage of the new approach is that it has the potential to enhance the accuracy of the phase calculated from the in phase signal component I and the quadrature phase signal component Q tan Equation 11 

where is the phase of the composite return signal and is the reference signal phase. This phase measurement capability is useful when imaging three dimensional objects where varies as a function of position across the object surface. However upon examination of the equations of the filtered in phase signal component Iand the filtered quadrature phase signal component Q Equations 4 and 5 it is clear that there are two phase terms one for the object and one for the backscatter . To isolate the object phase term the effect of the backscatter must be removed. This can be accomplished using the new approach described previously. By selecting a reference point so that and n 2 for odd integer n the backscatter phase term is removed and the backscatter amplitude can be determined Equations 9 and 10 . The object phase can then be calculated by

The range measurements calculated using Equations 11 and 12 for the flat target the object images shown in are shown in . The uncorrected range image illustrates the effect of the backscatter in producing phase errors. The corrected range image shows that the erroneous features have been removed and the image more closely resembles that of a flat target.

The method for detecting and identifying objects in turbid media includes emitting an optical signal toward an object in a turbid medium modulating the optical signal providing a reference signal detecting a portion of the modulated optical signal that is reflected from the object converting the portion of the modulated optical signal into an electrical signal separating the electrical signal into its RF and DC components mixing the RF component of the electrical signal with the reference signal producing an in phase signal component and a quadrature phase signal component from the mixed signals and filtering digitizing and processing the in phase signal component and the quadrature phase signal component such that contrast and range images of the object are produced.

In the preferred embodiment of the method the in phase signal component and the quadrature phase signal component are filtered prior to being digitized and processed. Additionally the method may include separating the reference signal into an out of phase reference signal portion and to an in phase reference signal portion mixing half of the RF component of the electrical signal with the out of phase reference signal portion such that the quadrature phase signal component is produced and mixing the other half of the RF component of the electrical signal with the in phase reference signal portion such that the in phase signal component is produced. The preferred method utilizes the above described equations and calculations.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the preferred embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to a certain preferred embodiments thereof other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred embodiment s contained herein.

