---

title: Enhanced sampling device
abstract: The present invention is directed to an enhanced sampling device, herein referred to as an ESD, for enhancing the collection efficiency of the SPME method by enhancing the flow of the analytes onto the sampling fiber. The ESD includes a tubular main body, used for a sampling shroud, which directs a flow of analytes to contact the fiber during collection. One end of the main body is open and faces the sample, allowing analytes to flow into the ESD and contact the fiber. A second piece of tubing branches from the other end of the main body and becomes an outlet port, possibly leading to a pump. The ESD permits more rapid transport and absorption of the analytes to the fiber for collection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07749443&OS=07749443&RS=07749443
owner: The Johns Hopkins University
number: 07749443
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071217
---
This invention was made with Government support under Department of the Navy contract N00024 03 D 6606. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application relates to U.S. provisional application No. 60 854 126 filed on Oct. 25 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to a device for enhancing the collection efficiency of the Solid Phase Microextraction SPME method of sample concentration collection and injection for analysis by gas chromatography or liquid chromatography. More specifically it relates to a device for enhancing the collection efficiency of the SPME method which enhances the flow of the analytes onto the sampling fiber.

Historically the chief method of analyzing trace chemicals also known as analytes was to employ a syringe to collect a sample of the analyte and then inject it into a gas chromatograph GC or liquid chromatograph LC . This resulted in the capture and injection of only small quantities of the analytes and thus yielded poor sensitivity. It was discovered that if large quantities of vapor or liquid analyte were drawn through a treated filter the components of interest would be concentrated on the filter paper. Solvents were used to selectively remove the chemicals of interest from the filter and a small portion of the solvent containing the traces was then injected into the GC or LC. Concentration of the sample via a filter was an improvement in sensitivity over straight analyte injection but it added many processing steps to the analysis which could increase errors.

It was further discovered that gas samples could be drawn through tubing containing packing material such as Tenax to concentrate the sample on the packing. After sampling the tubing was connected to the sampling inlet of the GC. If the packing was rapidly heated it would drive off the trace chemicals into the GC for analysis. This process was simpler than the filter process and yielded similar sample concentration enhancements as the filter paper method without the solvent extraction problems. However this process was only compatible with GC techniques and not LC techniques.

Certain materials selectively adsorb and absorb materials based upon their chemical properties. For instance silica gel will absorb water and then release it when heat is applied. Other extraction materials will release to certain solvents. Solid phase extraction SPE is a process which may employ selective adsorbents and solvents to concentrate the components of interest within the sample and selectively remove components that may interfere with later analysis. SPE can be a known effective alternative to liquid to liquid extraction in the analysis of aqueous samples. SPE reduces the consumption of high purity solvents and also reduces the time required to isolate the analytes of interest. However the fact that SPE continues to use solvents has a number of disadvantages notable among them being the need to take extensive precautions to guard against interference of the solvent with the analytes in the analyses.

Solid phase microextraction SPME is a similar process which allows the concentration of volatile or nonvolatile compounds from liquid samples or from headspace gas without the complicated apparatus and solvents of SPE. SPME may use a fiber mounted within a hollow needle sheath of a syringe. The fiber acts as a sponge which captures and concentrates the analytes. The fiber can then be inserted into the heated injector of a GC where the analytes may be thermally desorbed from the fiber and made available for analysis by the GC. SPME can achieve detection limits down to the parts per trillion range for a wide variety of compounds.

In operation septum of SPME holder may be placed adjacent to septum of sample vessel . Cylinder can be depressed thus injecting needle sheath into sample vessel as shown in . Next plunger is depressed which may extend fiber through the free end of needle sheath and thus may expose fiber to the liquid or headspace gas within the vessel as shown in . In this manner fiber is likely not damaged by unwanted contact. The analytes diffuse onto the surface of fiber where they can be absorbed. Once enough time has elapsed to allow sufficient sample to be captured by fiber fiber is retracted into needle sheath by retracting plunger and needle sheath is retracted via cylinder . Having the fiber containing the analyte sealed behind septum prevents contamination of the fiber and may prevent escape of the analyte. Using a similar process fiber can be then be inserted into the GC sample inlet not shown . The analytes are then removed from fiber by thermal desorption and injected into a GC or LC for analysis. Since fiber can be protected by septum while retracted inside of SPME holder this process protects fiber while transporting field samples to a laboratory for the most detailed analyses.

While the SPME process accomplishes its intended purposes of concentrating and collecting materials of interest it suffers from a number of drawbacks. First the SPME process is dependent upon diffusion to transport the analytes from solid or liquid on the bottom of the vessel to the fiber for collection. Since the time for diffusion and absorption of the analytes depends on many factors e.g. the analytes themselves as well as the type and thickness of any coating on the fiber this process can take hours and even days to accomplish. Such long sampling times have been problematic because adsorption is a bi directional process and therefore with a long sampling time the analyte being adsorbed also begins to desorb from the fiber resulting in a non linear response and making quantitization difficult. Therefore techniques have been developed to reduce the absorption time.

For example it is known that stirring and or forceful agitation or heat may be applied to the sample vessel to reduce the absorption time. Stirring can be accomplished through the placement of a magnetic bar within the analyte and the use of a standard magnetic stirrer. Another method of agitation is to apply ultrasonic vibrations to the vial. However agitation techniques can lead to damage to sample vials damage to the fiber and also to damage to mechanical and electrical parts. Moreover stirring techniques whether they are magnetic ultrasound or other methods often increase the risk of contamination. Also heat applied either directly or as a side effect of forceful agitation leads to a rise in the temperature of the sample. Since adsorption efficiency is temperature dependent this introduces an unwanted variable into the analysis. SPME can be very effective in allowing the identification of trace compounds due to its ability to selectively concentrate the analyte. However there are so many variable affecting the capture efficiency of the SPME that absolute quantitative analysis can be very difficult.

In the prior art improvements on the SPME device have been proposed. For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 131 341 to Wareham and Persaud discloses an instrument into which an SPME fiber and needle sheath is inserted. The holder case contains a motor to present the fiber to the sample and retract the fiber into the needle sheath. This patent indicates that once the sample is on the fiber the SPME can be either exchanged for a fresh one or immediately analyzed in the Wareham hosing. This patent is focused upon on the spot analysis of odor samples to determine if mold is within a wall or fungus samples to determine tree rot. This application is distinctly different than that of taking the SPME sample back to a lab for a more detailed analysis. First if the SPME is removed from its housing for later analysis as it is no longer sealed it will likely leach sample and gather contamination. Though this patent discusses a tagging method this tagging method appears incompatible with standard SPME holders and thus leaves unaddressed a desirable next step of injecting the SPME into the laboratory analyzer for high resolution analysis. Further this approach does not allow traceability of the analysis results to the quantity of air processed.

In order to overcome these problems what is needed is a device to enhance the efficiency of the SPME process the device permitting more rapid transport and absorption of the analytes to the fiber for collection. Further the device must allow injection of the SPME into a full scale laboratory analyzer. These features thus address and solve problems associated with conventional SPME systems.

The present invention is directed to an enhanced sampling device herein referred to as an ESD for enhancing the collection efficiency of the SPME method by enhancing the flow of the analytes onto the sampling fiber. The ESD includes a tubular main body which may be used for a sampling shroud which directs a flow of analytes to contact the fiber during collection. One end of the main body can be open and may face the sample allowing analytes to flow into the ESD and contact the fiber. A second piece of tubing may branch from the other end of the main body and can become an outlet port possibly leading to a pump. This application describes several embodiments of the ESD. The ESD permits more rapid transport and absorption of the analytes to the fiber for collection by potentially passing the gas carrying the analyte coaxially over all surfaces of the SPME fiber in a closely confined area so that the majority of the analyte comes into intimate contact with the fiber where it may be captured for later analysis.

It is an object of the invention disclosed herein to provide a new and improved device for the SPME technique which provides novel utility and flexibility through the use of a unique design which permits more rapid transport and absorption of analytes from solid liquid or gas to the fiber for collection.

It is another object of the invention disclosed herein to provide a new and improved device for the SPME technique which provides novel utility and flexibility through the use of a unique design which permits efficient collection of sample from a sample vessel or from ambient fluids and in particular gases.

It is an advantage of the invention disclosed herein to provide a new and improved device for the SPME technique which does not agitate or stir the sample.

It is a further advantage of the invention disclosed herein to provide a new and improved device for the SPME technique which does not add additional heat to the sample.

It is a further advantage of the invention that it constantly passes fresh gaseous sample containing the analyte in close proximity to the SPME fiber and that the flow rate and time of the flow can be easily measured which permits quantitation such that the results of the analysis can specify the quantity of analyte per volume of gas i.e. ppm liter .

It is a further advantage of the invention that the required sampling time is reduced by more than 50 .

It is a further advantage of the invention that due to the decrease in sampling time the linearity of the SPME technique is improved.

These and other objects and advantages of the present invention will be fully apparent from the following description when taken in connection with the annexed drawings.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the present application examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. It should be noted that both absorption and adsorption can occur on the sampling fiber. One process will predominate over the other depending upon the type of material on the fiber and the type of chemical being sampled.

In order to use the present invention in its first embodiment as shown in an operator inserts ESD into sample vessel by piercing septum with first open end . The operator then inserts SPME into ESD by aligning needle sheath with main body and depressing cylinder thus injecting needle sheath through optional ESD septum and into main body as shown in . Next the operator depresses plunger which extends fiber through the free end of needle sheath into main body in proximity to open end thus exposing fiber to the liquid or headspace gas entering main body . Alternatively an automatic insertion device may be used to insert either or both ESD into sample vessel and or SPME into ESD . Alternatively in another embodiment the ESD can be used with the SPME to sample ambient air without the use of a container.

In order to use the present invention in its second embodiment as shown in the operator may align and insert funnel shaped end with alignment cone mounted on front end of SPME . At this point the operator inserts ESD into sample vessel . Note that this may be accomplished in one embodiment manually or in another embodiment through the use of an automatic insertion device. The operator then depresses cylinder thus injecting needle sheath through septum and optional ESD septum and into main body . Next in the current embodiment the operator depresses plunger which extends fiber through the free end of needle sheath into main body in proximity to open end thus exposing fiber to the liquid or headspace gas entering main body .

In order to use the present invention in its third embodiment as shown in the operator may insert ESD into sample vessel . Note that this may be accomplished either manually or through the use of an automatic insertion device. The operator then depresses cylinder thus injecting needle sheath through septum and optional ESD septum and into main body . Next in the current embodiment the operator depresses plunger which extends fiber through the free end of needle sheath into main body in proximity to open end thus exposing fiber to the liquid or headspace gas entering main body .

In order to use the present invention in its fourth embodiment as shown in the operator may position the modified ESD containing the integral vents and over the sample vessel . Note that this may be accomplished in one embodiment manually but in another embodiment it may be accomplished through the use of an automatic insertion device. The operator may then depresses cylinder thus injecting needle sheath through septum and into the sample vessel and allowing gaseous sample containing the analyte to flow over fiber .

A further application of the ESD includes the sampling of air in proximity to a pipe. The Environmental Protection Agency EPA requires that chemical processing plants test all plumbing joints for possible trace leaks called fugitive emissions. Depending upon the chemical in question one might wipe the pipe fitting with a treated filter paper for later analysis. One might put a bag over a valve which contains a dozen possible leak interfaces and then take an air sample from the bag for a gross leak measurement. One might use a portable analyzer which contains a tube full of chemicals which change color with exposure and a pump to pull air samples through the tube. Since the EPA requires testing of the perimeter of each flange each bolt perimeter the valve stem and any packing nuts around the stem the ESD may be placed next to an interface fitting and retain a sample on the SPME. The ESD SPME would be easier and more quantitative than the other methods of the prior art.

Further applications include sampling process streams such as duct work for the central air supply of a building or a line sampling the air in proximity to luggage to detect volatile chemicals. In all of these applications the rate of gaseous flow through the ESD and the time of flow may be used to calculate the total volume of gas passing in close proximity to the SPME fiber. This then allows quantitative reporting of the results in parts of analyte per volume of gas.

It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the present examples and embodiments are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the invention is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims.

