---

title: Computational user-health testing responsive to a user interaction with advertiser-configured content
abstract: Methods, apparatuses, computer program products, devices and systems are described that carry out specifying at least one of a plurality of user-health test functions responsive to an interaction between a user and at least one advertiser-specified attribute; and transmitting at least one output of the at least one user-health test function related to the at least one advertiser-specified attribute.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08065240&OS=08065240&RS=08065240
owner: The Invention Science Fund I
number: 08065240
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
The present application is related to the following Related Applications. All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 981 650 entitled POLLING FOR INTEREST IN COMPUTATIONAL USER HEALTH TEST OUTPUT naming Edward K. Y. Jung Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 30 Oct. 2007.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 811 865 entitled COMPUTATIONAL USER HEALTH TESTING naming Edward K. Y. Jung Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 11 Jun. 2007.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 807 220 entitled COMPUTATIONAL USER HEALTH TESTING naming Edward K. Y. Jung Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 24 May 2007.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 804 304 entitled COMPUTATIONAL USER HEALTH TESTING naming Edward K. Y. Jung Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 15 May 2007.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 731 745 entitled EFFECTIVE RESPONSE PROTOCOLS FOR HEALTH MONITORING OR THE LIKE naming Edward K. Y. Jung Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 30 Mar. 2007.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 731 778 entitled CONFIGURING SOFTWARE FOR EFFECTIVE HEALTH MONITORING OR THE LIKE naming Edward K. Y. Jung Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 30 Mar. 2007.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 731 801 entitled EFFECTIVE LOW PROFILE HEALTH MONITORING OR THE LIKE naming Edward K. Y. Jung Eric C. Leuthardt Royce A. Levien Robert W. Lord and Mark A. Malamud as inventors filed 30 Mar. 2007.

An embodiment provides a method. In one implementation the method includes but is not limited to specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between a user and at least one advertiser specified attribute and transmitting at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. In addition to the foregoing other method aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In one or more various aspects related systems include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer.

An embodiment provides a system. In one implementation the system includes but is not limited to circuitry for specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between a user and at least one advertiser specified attribute and circuitry for transmitting at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. In addition to the foregoing other system aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

An embodiment provides a computer program product. In one implementation the computer program product includes but is not limited to a signal bearing medium bearing a one or more instructions for specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between a user and at least one advertiser specified attribute and b one or more instructions for transmitting at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. In addition to the foregoing other computer program product aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

An embodiment provides a system. In one implementation the system includes but is not limited to a computing device and instructions. The instructions when executed on the computing device cause the computing device to a specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to at least one advertiser specified attribute and b transmit at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. In addition to the foregoing other system aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In one or more various aspects related systems include but are not limited to computing means and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects the computing means and or programming may be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer.

In addition to the foregoing various other method and or system and or program product aspects are set forth and described in the teachings such as text e.g. claims and or detailed description and or drawings of the present disclosure.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is NOT intended to be in any way limiting. Other aspects features and advantages of the devices and or processes and or other subject matter described herein will become apparent in the teachings set forth herein.

In an advertiser may configure an application to include an advertiser specified attribute such as a color a textual display a design and or a brand . A user health test function assignment module may detect user application interaction data and assign a user health test function such as a memory test function carried out by memory analysis module . Such a memory test function may be triggered by the interaction of user with advertiser specified attribute .

In the device is illustrated as possibly being included within a system . Of course virtually any kind of computing device may be used to implement the user health test function unit such as for example a workstation a desktop computer a networked computer a server a collection of servers and or databases a virtual machine running inside a computing device a mobile computing device or a tablet PC.

Additionally not all of the user health test function unit need be implemented on a single computing device. For example the user health test function unit and or application may be implemented and or operable on a remote computer while a user interface and or local instance of application are implemented and or occur on a local computer. Further aspects of the user health test function unit may be implemented in different combinations and implementations than that shown in . For example functionality of a user interface may be incorporated into the user health test function unit . The user health test function unit may perform simple data relay functions and or complex data analysis including for example fuzzy logic and or traditional logic steps. Further many methods of searching databases known in the art may be used including for example unsupervised pattern discovery methods coincidence detection methods and or entity relationship modeling. In some embodiments the user health test function unit may process user application interaction data acquired according to health profiles available as updates through a network.

In the user health test function unit is illustrated as including a user health test function set including various user health test function modules including for example a mental status test module a cranial nerve function test module a cerebellum function test module an alertness or attention test module a visual field test module a neglect or construction test module a memory test module a speech or voice test module an eye movement or pupil movement test module a face pattern test module a calculation test module a task sequencing test module a hearing test module and or a motor skill or body movement test module . Various user application interaction data may provide inputs for these user health test functions including user input data such as personal information and or other text data passive user data such as user image data user reaction time data user speech or voice data user hearing data user body movement eye movement and or pupil movement data user face pattern data user keystroke data and or user pointing device manipulation data.

The user health function output may be stored in virtually any type of memory that is able to store and or provide access to information in for example a one to many many to one and or many to many relationship. Such a memory may include for example a relational database and or an object oriented database examples of which are provided in more detail herein.

In this way the user who may be using a device that is connected through a network with the system e.g. in an office outdoors and or in a public environment may generate user application interaction data as if the user were interacting locally with the server on which the application is locally operable.

As referenced herein the user health test function unit and or user health test function output routing module may be used to perform various data querying and or recall techniques with respect to the user application interaction data and or user health test function output in order to obtain and or transmit user health test function output . For example where the user application interaction data is organized keyed to and or otherwise accessible using one or more reference user health test functions or profiles user health test function assignment module may employ various Boolean statistical and or semi boolean searching techniques to match user application interaction data with one or more appropriate user health test functions. Similarly for example where user health test function output is organized keyed to and or otherwise accessible using one or more reference entity interest profiles various Boolean statistical and or semi boolean searching techniques may be performed to match user health test function output with one or more appropriate entity .

Many examples of databases and database structures may be used in connection with the user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module . Such examples include hierarchical models in which data is organized in a tree and or parent child node structure network models based on set theory and in which multi parent structures per child node are supported or object relational models combining the relational model with the object oriented model .

Still other examples include various types of eXtensible Mark up Language XML databases. For example a database may be included that holds data in some format other than XML but that is associated with an XML interface for accessing the database using XML. As another example a database may store XML data directly. Additionally or alternatively virtually any semi structured database may be used so that context may be provided to associated with stored data elements either encoded with the data elements or encoded externally to the data elements so that data storage and or access may be facilitated.

Such databases and or other memory storage techniques may be written and or implemented using various programming or coding languages. For example object oriented database management systems may be written in programming languages such as for example C or Java. Relational and or object relational models may make use of database languages such as for example the structured query language SQL which may be used for example for interactive queries for information and or for gathering and or compiling data from the relational database s .

For example SQL or SQL like operations over one or more reference health attribute may be performed or Boolean operations using a reference health attribute may be performed. For example weighted Boolean operations may be performed in which different weights or priorities are assigned to one or more of the reference health attributes including reference health conditions perhaps relative to one another. For example a number weighted exclusive OR operation may be performed to request specific weightings of desired or undesired health reference data to be included or excluded. Reference health attributes may include normal physiological values for such health related things as reaction time body or eye movement memory alertness blood pressure or the like. Such normal physiological values may be normal relative to the user to a subpopulation to which the user belongs or to a general population.

After a start operation operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between a user and at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user can interact with an advertiser specified attribute within application running on a device or server . The advertiser specified attribute may be encountered during an interaction of the user with local instance of application to generate user application interaction data . A user health test function assignment module can specify a user health test function from within a user health test function set implemented on a server or on a device within a system . A user health test function from within the user health test function set may be initiated by a user health test function unit resident on server or on device . System may also include application operable on device through network as a local instance of application including an advertiser specified attribute . For example a user health test function such as a memory test function performed by memory test module may be specified from within a user health test function unit residing on a personal computing device or a remote server . A user health test function unit may communicates via a network for example with an application or a local instance of application including an advertiser specified attribute . The at least one application may reside on the at least one device or the at least one application may not reside on the at least one device but instead it may be operable on the at least one device from a server for example through a network or other link. The user health test assignment module may detect user application interaction data signifying an interaction between the user and the advertiser specified attribute . The user health test assignment module may then specify a user health test function operable to analyze the interaction of the user with the advertiser specified attribute. The advertiser specified attribute may be for example an attribute of an object encountered by a user during a gaming session an emailing session a word processing session a code entry session or the like.

For example a data detection module and or data capture module of the at least one device or associated with the server running application may obtain user application interaction data in response to an interaction between the user and the advertiser specified attribute associated with local instance of application and or application . User health test function assignment module and or user health test function unit may then specify a user health test function that is appropriate to analyze the user application interaction data for user health measures or attributes such as alertness reaction time memory eye movement clicking patterns as discussed in more detail below. For example the user health test function unit may specify an alertness or attention test function via alertness or attention test module in response to user application interaction data signaling proximity of a user s avatar to an in game advertisement for example. Such measurement of user health data as described herein may be surreptitious in which case user awareness bias may be minimized.

It should be understood that user health test functions may be profitably combined to provide particularly rich information in the form of user health test function output. For example user eye movement data may indicate a user interaction with an advertisement at a time when user heart rate data indicates an increase in alertness or excitedness. In another example user pointing device data may indicate a user interaction with a particular segment of a virtual world that is coincident with a particular face pattern test function output and a particular speech or voice test function output. Together these user health test function outputs may provide a detailed portrait of a user s response to for example an advertisement.

Operation depicts transmitting at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. A user health test function output routing module may be located either locally with respect to a device or remotely for example associated with server . The user health test function output routing module may transmit user health test function output to an entity or an advertiser . A user health test function output routing module may send a portion of user health test function output to advertiser including for example advertising broker advertising agency and or merchant to obtain an indication of interest in the user health test function output . For example a user health test function output routing module may transmit to an entity user health test function output in the form of user clicking frequency user eye movement and or user memory with respect to an advertiser specified attribute encountered by the user during a gaming session or internet searching session.

The subject matter disclosed herein may provide a number of useful services to interested entities. Firstly user health test function output may be a direct indicator of the effectiveness of an advertiser specified attribute for example in terms of attracting a user s attention persisting in a user s memory and or inducing purchases. Secondly user health test function output may aid an advertiser in discriminating between actual cognitive interest or disinterest in an advertiser specified attribute and interest or disinterest in the advertiser specified attribute that is a function of a user health issue. For example in a case where a user neglects an advertiser specified attribute user health test function output may indicate a general deficiency in terms of a neglect or construction defect in the user which may permit the advertiser to exclude that data point from a survey of the effectiveness of the advertiser specified attribute in garnering attention from users. Thirdly user health test function output may provide entities with specific information about a user or users who are susceptible to for example a particular advertiser specified attribute. Accordingly it should be understood that a medical diagnosis is not required for user health test function output to be of use or interest to an entity. In many cases data that fall short of providing diagnostic clues may be transmitted to an entity particularly where positive interaction data in the context of an advertiser specified attribute are present.

For example an alertness or attention test module may send a summary or other analysis of user application interaction data relating to for example user eye movement during the interaction with the advertiser specified attribute as user health test function output . Such user health test function output may be sent to an advertiser s computer connected by a network to server device or to at least one memory within server .

In this regard it should be understood that a data signal may first be encoded and or represented in digital form i.e. as digital data prior to the assignment to at least one memory. For example a digitally encoded representation of user eye movement data may be stored in a local memory or may be transmitted for storage in a remote memory.

Thus an operation may be performed relating either to a local or remote storage of the digital data or to another type of transmission of the digital data. Of course as discussed herein operations also may be performed relating to accessing querying processing recalling or otherwise obtaining the digital data from a memory including for example transmission of the digital data from a remote memory. Accordingly such operation s may involve elements including at least an operator e.g. either human or computer directing the operation a transmitting computer and or a receiving computer and should be understood to occur within the United States as long as at least one of these elements resides in the United States.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between a user and at least one device implemented application configured to present the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function assignment module and or user health test function unit may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between a user and at least one device implemented application configured to present at least one advertiser specified attribute. In one embodiment a user health test function assignment module may activate an eye movement or pupil movement test module initiating for example an eye movement test function to monitor user image data during an interaction between a user and a local instance of application including an advertiser specified attribute the local instance of application implemented on device . In another embodiment user health test function unit can initiate for example a mental status test module within user health test function set . A mental status test function thay then measure for example user alertness during an advertiser specified video clip playing on web browser at user interface . A user health test function may be implemented in a personal computer of user the user health test function may measure a physiological attribute during a user s interaction with a local instance of application including an advertiser specified attribute . For example a physiological attribute such as heart rate respiration perspiration temperature skin coloring pupil dilation body or facial tic or the like may be measured based on user application interaction data including user image data. Alternatively a user health test function may be specified to measure a change in one or more physiological attributes of user such as an increase in heart rate over a time interval as measured by a heart rate monitor or a decreased ability of the user to perform certain muscle movements as measured by an image capture device such as a video camera or as measured by an electromyogram.

In another embodiment a user health test function assignment module and or user health test function unit may specify initiation of a visual field test module . The visual field test module may include a visual field test function that can measure via user input data the visual field of a user during an interaction with an application including an advertiser specified attribute .

Operation depicts specifying at least one alertness or attention test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function assignment module and or user health test function unit may specify at least one alertness or attention test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function assignment module may activate an alertness or attention test module within a mobile device such as a videoconferencing device or cellular camera phone or videophone the alertness or attention test function responsive to the interaction between a user and an advertiser specified attribute encountered on the mobile device . Alternatively a user health test function unit may specify user health test function such as a body movement test function from among user health test function set . The user health test function unit may be programmed to activate the body movement test function during times of user interaction with for example an advertiser specified attribute such as a household item such as a brand of food musical work or object on a website. Specification of user health test function may be based on user application interaction data which may be provided by user monitoring device such as a security camera providing images of a user interacting with a local environment during a programmed or random monitoring sweep. In an alternative embodiment a user health test function operating in concert with a webcam may be specified by user health test function unit to capture one or more images of a user at her personal computer while surfing the internet or gaming in the context of an advertiser specified attribute .

Alertness or attention can be tested for example by measuring eye movements body movements pointing device manipulation and or task proficiency e.g. are a user s eyelids drooping is a user s head nodding is a user failing or succeeding to activate on screen items when prompted does a user respond to a sound or the like .

Alertness or attention to an advertisement may be gauged from a user s interaction with the advertisement. User application interaction data and or user health test function output such as alertness or attention test module output may demonstrate user interest in the advertisement in the form of face pattern data e.g. a smile on an image of the user s face pointing device manipulation data e.g. a mouse click on an onscreen advertisement icon and or eye movements data e.g. repeated eye movements toward the advertisement or the like.

Alertness or attention user attributes are indicators of a user s mental status. An example of an alertness test function may be a measure of reaction time as one objective manifestation. Examples of attention test functions may include ability to focus on simple tasks ability to spell the word world forward and backward or reciting a numerical sequence forward and backward as objective manifestations of an alertness problem. An alertness or attention test module and or user health test function unit may require a user to enter a password backward as an alertness test function. Alternatively a user may be prompted to perform an executive function as a predicate to launching an application such as a word processing program. For example an alertness test function could be activated by a user command to open a word processing program requiring performance of for example a spelling task as a preliminary step in launching the word processing program. Also writing ability may be tested by requiring the user to write their name or write a sentence on a device perhaps with a stylus on a touchscreen.

Reduced level of alertness or attention can indicate the following possible conditions where an acute reduction in alertness or attention is detected stroke involving the reticular activating system stroke involving the bilateral or unilateral thalamus metabolic abnormalities such as hyper or hypoglycemia toxic effects due to substance overdose for example benzodiazepines or other toxins such as alcohol . Reduced level of alertness and attention can indicate the following possible conditions where a subacute or chronic reduction in alertness or attention is detected dementia caused by for example Alzheimer s disease vascular dementia Parkinson s disease Huntingdon s disease Creutzfeldt Jakob disease Pick disease head injury infection normal pressure hydrocephalus brain tumor exposure to toxin for example lead or other heavy metals metabolic disorders hormone disorders hypoxia drug reactions drug overuse drug abuse encephalitis caused by for example enteroviruses herpes viruses or arboviruses or mood disorders for example bipolar disorder cyclothymic disorder depression depressive disorder NOS not otherwise specified dysthymic disorder postpartum depression or seasonal affective disorder .

In the context of the above alertness or attention test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered alertness or attention function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered alertness or attention function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered alertness or attention function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one memory test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one memory test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. A specified memory test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Memory can be tested for example by measuring keyboard entry data pointing device manipulation and or task proficiency e.g. can a user type a word correctly after a time interval to indicate brand awareness can a user match a sound to an item after a time interval or the like .

Memory in the context of an advertisement may be gauged from a user s interaction with the advertisement. User application interaction data and or output from memory test module may demonstrate user interest in the advertisement in the form of repeated attention to an item over time e.g. repeated eye movements toward the advertisement repeated clicks on an advertisement over time success at brand recognition challenges or the like .

A user s memory attributes are indicators of a user s mental status. An example of a memory test function may be a measure of a user s short term ability to recall items presented for example in a story or after a short period of time. Another example of a memory test function may be a measure of a user s long term memory for example their ability to remember basic personal information such as birthdays place of birth or names of relatives. Another example of a memory test function may be a memory test module and or user health test function unit prompting a user to change and or enter a password with a specified frequency during internet browser use. A memory test function involving changes to a password that is required to access an internet server can challenge a user s memory according to a fixed or variable schedule. A memory test function can test a user s ability to recall an advertiser specified attribute such as a phrase jingle product design packaging brand logo or the like.

Difficulty with recall after about 1 to 5 minutes may indicate damage to the limbic memory structures located in the medial temporal lobes and medial diencephalon of the brain or damage to the fornix. Dysfunction of these structures characteristically causes anterograde amnesia meaning difficulty remembering new facts and events occurring after lesion onset. Reduced short term memory function can also indicate the following conditions head injury Alzheimer s disease Herpes virus infection seizure emotional shock or hysteria alcohol related brain damage barbiturate or heroin use general anaesthetic effects electroconvulsive therapy effects stroke transient ischemic attack i.e. a mini stroke complication of brain surgery. Reduced long term memory function can indicate the following conditions Alzheimer s disease alcohol related brain damage complication of brain surgery depressive pseudodementia adverse drug reactions e.g. to benzodiazepines anti ulcer drugs analgesics anti hypertensives diabetes drugs beta blockers anti Parkinson s disease drugs anti emetics anti psychotics or certain drug combinations such as haloperidol and methyldopa combination therapy multi infarct dementia or head injury.

In the context of the above memory test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered memory function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered memory function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered memory function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one speech or voice test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one speech or voice test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. A specified speech or voice test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Speech can be tested for example by measuring voice song and or other vocal utterances of a user e.g. can a user say the words on a screen does an advertising slogan come easily to a user s lips is a jingle catchy such that a user sings it after hearing it does a user respond out loud to an advertisement or the like .

Speech responses to an advertiser specified attribute such as a jingle slogan or design may be gauged from a user s interaction with the advertiser specified attribute . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in the advertiser specified attribute in the form of speech data e.g. sounds including words uttered relating to the advertisement or the like.

User speech attributes are indicators of a user s mental status. An example of a speech test function may be a measure of a user s fluency or ability to produce spontaneous speech including phrase length rate of speech abundance of spontaneous speech tonal modulation or whether paraphasic errors e.g. inappropriately substituted words or syllables neologisms e.g. nonexistent words or errors in grammar are present. Another example of a speech test function is a program that can measure the number of words spoken by a user during a video conference. The number of words per interaction or per unit time could be measured. A marked decrease in the number of words spoken could indicate a speech problem.

Another example of a speech test function may be a measure of a user s comprehension of spoken language including whether a user can understand simple questions and commands or grammatical structure. For example a user could be tested by a speech or voice test module and or user health test function unit asking the question Mike was shot by John. Is John dead An inappropriate response may indicate a speech center defect. Alternatively a user health test function unit and or speech or voice test module may require a user to say a slogan jingle code or phrase and repeat it several times. Speech defects may become apparent if the user has difficulty repeating the slogan jingle code or phrase during for example a videoconference session or while using speech recognition software.

Another example of a speech test function may be a measure of a user s ability to name simple everyday objects perhaps with advertiser specified attributes e.g. a Bic pen a Rolex watch or a McDonald s restaurant and also more difficult objects e.g. Hermes scarf Louis Vuitton bag or Les Paul guitar . A speech test function may for example require the naming of an object prior to or during the interaction of a user with an application as a time based or event based checkpoint. For example a user may be prompted by the user health test function unit and or the speech or voice test module to say Crest after being shown a picture of a tube of Crest toothpaste prior to or during the user s interaction with for example a word processing or email program. A test requiring the naming of parts of objects is often more difficult for users with speech comprehension impairment. Another speech test gauges a user s ability to repeat single words and sentences e.g. no if s and s or but s . A further example of a speech test measures a user s ability to read single words a brief written passage or the front page of the newspaper aloud followed by a test for comprehension.

Difficulty with speech or reading writing ability may indicate for example lesions in the dominant usually left frontal lobe including Broca s area output area the left temporal and parietal lobes including Wernicke s area input area subcortical white matter and gray matter structures including thalamus and caudate nucleus as well as the non dominant hemisphere. Typical diagnostic conditions may include for example stroke head trauma dementia multiple sclerosis Parkinson s disease Landau Kleffner syndrome a rare syndrome of acquired epileptic aphasia .

A user s voice can be tested for example by measuring a user s reaction to audio or visual content perhaps by way of an exclamation speech or other vocal utterance acknowledging that a sound was heard by the user or that a visual element was seen and recognized in some way. User voice information may be of interest to an advertising entity for example where a user exhibits some reaction with respect to an advertisement for example in a computerized game world or in another virtual world. In one embodiment a user s reaction to an advertisement may be an exclamation such as Wow that s nice that may be detectable by a microphone monitoring an interaction between the user and a merchant s product web page. Information from the user application interaction data may suggest that a user has certain likes and dislikes among listed products on a webpage or among various advertisements this information may be of interest to a merchant and or advertiser. Accordingly user vocal reaction data may comprise the user health test function output .

Voice may be measured relative to a user s interaction with an application . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in an advertisement displayed in the context of application in the form of vocalizations uttered in the context of viewing or otherwise interacting with the advertisement e.g. rotating an image on a webpage to examine different views of the object playing a game within an advertisement or the like . A speech recognition function such as a software program or computational device may be able to identify and or record an utterance of a user as speech or voice test module output.

User voice data may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest or such data may be unrelated to an application visual object or sound or to a user health test function object or sound. In any case an entity may be interested in the output of a voice test module . In cases where a neurological condition underlies a specific voice attribute or behavior such as an apparent voice deficit an entity may be interested in this information. For example data from an individual exhibiting failure to react vocally to a sound or visual cue in a virtual world due to a neurological condition may be excluded from a survey by the entity receiving the data. Alternatively for example data about the voice ability of a user including speaking habits relative to advertisements may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying positive negative or lack of responses to specific advertising.

An example of a voice test function may be a measure of symmetrical elevation of the palate when the user says aah or a test of the gag reflex. In an ipsilateral lesion of the vagus nerve the uvula deviates towards the affected side. As a result of its innervation through the recurrent laryngeal nerve to the vocal cords hoarseness may develop as a symptom of vagus nerve injury. A voice test module and or user health test function unit may monitor user voice frequency or volume data during for example gaming videoconferencing speech recognition software use or mobile phone use. Injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve can occur with lesions in the neck or apical chest. The most common lesions are tumors in the neck or apical chest. Cancers may include lung cancer esophageal cancer or squamous cell cancer.

Other voice test functions may involve first observing the tongue while in floor of mouth for fasciculations. If present fasciculations may indicate peripheral hypoglossal nerve dysfunction. Next the user may be prompted to protrude the tongue and move it in all directions. When protruded the tongue will deviate toward the side of a lesion as the unaffected muscles push the tongue more than the weaker side . Gross symptoms of pathology may result in garbled sound in speech as if there were marbles in the user s mouth . Damage to the hypoglossal nerve affecting voice speech may indicate neoplasm aneurysm or other external compression and may result in protrusion of the tongue away from side of the lesion for an upper motor neuron process and toward the side of the lesion for a lower motor neuron process. Accordingly a voice test module and or user health test function unit may assess a user s ability to make simple sounds or to say words for example consistently with an established voice pattern for the user.

In the context of the above speech or voice test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered speech or voice function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered speech or voice function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered speech or voice function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one calculation test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one calculation test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A specified calculation test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Calculation ability of a user may be tested by arithmetic challenges associated with an application . A calculation test module may include logic puzzles such as sudoku. High functioning users may voluntarily select a calculation test function associated with an advertiser specified attribute such as an advertising puzzle widget on a webpage. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify a calculation test module to guage a user s interest in an advertiser sponsored sudoku widget on a website. User health test function output from such a user health test function may be of interest for example to a website host hoping to attract users with interest in sudoku logic puzzles or the like.

A user s calculation attributes are indicators of a user s mental status. An example of a calculation test function may be a measure of a user s ability to do simple math such as addition or subtraction for example. A calculation test module and or user health test function unit may prompt a user to solve an arithmetic problem in the context of interacting with application or alternatively in the context of using the device in between periods of interacting with the application . For example a user may be prompted to enter the number of items associated with an advertiser specified attibute and or gold pieces collected during a segment of gameplay in the context of playing a game.

In this and other contexts user interaction with a device s operating system or other system function may also constitute user interaction with an application . Difficulty in completing calculation tests may be indicative of stroke e.g. embolic thrombotic or due to vasculitis dominant parietal lesion or brain tumor e.g. glioma or meningioma . When a calculation ability deficiency is found with defects in user ability to distinguish right and left body parts right left confusion ability to name and identify each finger finger agnosia and ability to write their name and a sentence Gerstman s syndrome a lesion in the dominant parietal lobe of the brain may be present.

In the context of the above calculation test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered calculation function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered calculation function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered calculation function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one neglect or construction test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one neglect or construction test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A specified neglect or construction test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module user image data and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Neglect or construction can be tested for example by measuring user actions with respect to items on a display including the ability of the user to acknowledge items by cursor movement clicking voice eye movement or other ways of focusing on an item including an item with an advertiser specified attribute.

Neglectful responses to an advertiser specified attribute for example may be gauged from a user s interaction with the advertiser specified attribute . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in the advertiser specified attribute in the form of direct attention to the advertiser specified attribute in terms of pointing device manipulation e.g. pointing and or clicking sounds e.g. words uttered relating to the advertisement eye movement or the like. User neglect or construction deficits may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest. In either case an advertiser or other entity may be interested in the output of a neglect or construction test function. In cases where a neurological condition underlies a neglect or construction deficit behavior an entity may be particularly interested in this information. For example data from an individual exhibiting neglect due to a neurological condition may be excluded from a survey by an entity. Alternatively for example data about the behavior of a user with a construction deficit relative to an advertiser specified attribute may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying characteristics of users with positive or negative responses to a specific advertiser specified attribute .

Neglect or construction user attributes are indicators of a user s mental status. Neglect may include a neurological condition involving a deficit in attention to an area of space often one side of the body or the other. A construction defect may include a deficit in a user s ability to draw complex figures or manipulate blocks or other objects in space as a result of neglect or other visuospatial impairment.

Hemineglect may include an abnormality in attention to one side of the universe that is not due to a primary sensory or motor disturbance. In sensory neglect users ignore visual somatosensory or auditory stimuli on the affected side despite intact primary sensation. This can often be demonstrated by testing for extinction on double simultaneous stimulation. Thus a neglect or construction test module and or user health test function unit may present a stimulus on one or both sides of a display for a user to click on. A user with hemineglect may detect the stimulus on the affected side when presented alone but when stimuli are presented simultaneously on both sides only the stimulus on the unaffected side may be detected. In motor neglect normal strength may be present however the user often does not move the affected limb unless attention is strongly directed toward it.

An example of a neglect test function may be a measure of a user s awareness of events occurring on one side of the user or the other. A user could be asked Do you see anything on the left side of the screen Users with anosognosia i.e. unawareness of a disability may be strikingly unaware of severe deficits on the affected side. For example some people with acute stroke who are completely paralyzed on the left side believe there is nothing wrong and may even be perplexed about why they are in the hospital. Alternatively a neglect or construction test module and or user health test function unit may present a drawing task to a user in the context of an application that involves similar activities. A construction test involves prompting a user to draw complex figures or to manipulate objects in space. Difficulty in completing such a test may be a result of neglect or other visuospatial impairment.

Another neglect test function is a test of a user s ability to acknowledge a series of objects on a display that span a center point on the display. For example a user may be prompted to click on each of advertiser specified attributes present in a horizontal line across the midline of a display. If the user has a neglect problem she may only detect and accordingly click on the advertiser specified attributes on one side of the display neglecting the others.

Hemineglect is most common in lesions of the right nondominant parietal lobe causing users to neglect the left side. Left sided neglect can also occasionally be seen in right frontal lesions right thalamic or basal ganglia lesions and rarely in lesions of the right midbrain. Hemineglect or difficulty with construction tasks may be indicative of stroke e.g. embolic thrombotic or due to vasculitis or brain tumor e.g. glioma or meningioma .

In the context of the above neglect or construction test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered neglect or construction function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered neglect or construction function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered neglect or construction function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one task sequencing test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one task sequencing test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A specified task sequencing test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module user image data and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Task sequencing can be tested for example by measuring user actions with respect to items on a display including the ability of the user to acknowledge items in sequence via cursor movement clicking voice eye movement or other ways of for example selecting or otherwise manipulating items or performing tasks over time.

Task sequencing information may be of interest to an advertising entity for example where a sequence of user actions on a web page comprise user health test function output e.g. output of task sequencing test module . For example an entity such as an advertiser may be interested in eye movements as a function of time. For example how much time passes before a user s eyes contact an advertiser specified attribute on the web page and or how long before the user s eyes move away from the advertiser specified attribute Does the user click on the advertiser specified attribute Does a user close an advertisement window quickly for example or is there an indication that the user reads the advertiser specified attribute e.g. the text in the advertisement window Task sequencing function may be gauged from a user s interaction with the application . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in the advertiser specified attribute in the form of compound actions in response to the advertiser specified attribute in terms of multiple pointing device manipulations e.g. pointing and or clicking following instructions present in an advertiser specified attribute such as an advertisement in a game or the like.

User task sequencing deficits may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest. In either case an entity may be interested in the output of a task sequencing test function. In cases where a neurological condition underlies a task sequencing deficit behavior an entity may be interested in this information. For example data from an individual exhibiting failure to complete a sequence of tasks due to a neurological condition may be excluded from a survey by an entity. Alternatively for example data about the behavior of a user with a task sequencing deficit relative to an advertiser specified attribute may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying characteristics of users with positive or negative responses to a specific advertiser specified attribute.

A user s task sequencing attributes are indicators of a user s mental status. An example of a task sequencing test function may be a measure of a user s perseveration. For example a task sequencing test module and or user health test function unit may ask a user to continue drawing a silhouette pattern of alternating triangles and squares i.e. a written alternating sequencing task for a time period. In users with perseveration problems the user may get stuck on one shape and keep drawing triangles. Another common finding is motor impersistence a form of distractibility in which users only briefly sustain a motor action in response to a command such as raise your arms or Look to the right. Ability to suppress inappropriate behaviors can be tested by the auditory Go No Go test in which the user moves a finger in response to one sound but must keep it still in response to two sounds. Alternatively a task sequencing test module and or user health test function unit may prompt a user to perform a multi step function in the context of an application including an advertiser specified attribute for example. For example an application such as a game may prompt a user to enter a character s name equip an advertiser specified attribute such as a marked item from an inventory and click on a certain direction of travel in that order. Difficulty completing this task may indicate for example a frontal lobe defect associated with dementia.

Decreased ability to perform sequencing tasks may be indicative of stroke e.g. embolic thrombotic or due to vasculitis brain tumor e.g. glioma or meningioma or dementia caused by for example Alzheimer s disease vascular dementia Parkinson s disease Huntingdon s disease Creutzfeldt Jakob disease Pick disease head injury infection e.g. meningitis encephalitis HIV or syphilis normal pressure hydrocephalus brain tumor exposure to toxin for example lead or other heavy metals metabolic disorders hormone disorders hypoxia caused by e.g. emphysema pneumonia or congestive heart failure drug reactions e.g. anti cholinergic side effects drug overuse drug abuse e.g. cocaine or heroin .

In the context of the above task sequencing test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered task sequencing function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered task sequencing function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered task sequencing function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one visual field test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one visual field test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A specified visual field test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module user image data and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Visual field can be tested for example by measuring user actions with respect to items on a display including the ability of the user to acknowledge items within a specified field of view via cursor movement clicking voice eye movement or other ways of for example selecting or otherwise manipulating items including an advertiser specified attribute.

Visual field information may be of interest to an advertising entity for example where a user performs actions within a computerized game world with respect to an advertiser specified attribute such as an advertisement in the computerized game world. For example a user s ability to click on a limited portion of a screen due to a visual field defect may be of interest to an advertiser for purposes of advertisement placement within the computerized game world. For example knowing that a user has a limited field of vision may prompt an advertiser to reposition an advertisement closer to the center of the screen relative to highly traveled routes and or to avoid placing the advertisement in the periphery of the screen for affected users. Clicking a target on a display and or vocally acknowledging a visual signal on a display may comprise the user health test function output e.g. output of visual field test module .

For example an entity such as a merchant may be interested in determining whether a user notices an advertiser specified attribute such as a virtual world avatar wearing the merchant s brand of clothing for example bearing the merchant s logo. If the user exhibits a limited field of vision in normal clicking function within the virtual world the merchant may request prominent placement of an avatar bearing an advertiser specified attribute near the center of the screen and or more frequent movement of the avatar in the area of the center of the user s field of vision.

In another embodiment an advertiser may want to know if a low priced advertisement placed in a peripheral screen location is noticed by an acceptable percentage of users of a virtual world game web site or the like. Visual field function may be gauged from a user s interaction with the application . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in the advertisement in the form of direct user initiated acknowledgement of an advertisement in terms of pointing device manipulations e.g. pointing and or clicking speaking or the like.

User visual field deficits may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest. In either case an entity such as an advertiser may be interested in the output of a visual field test function such as the output of a visual field test module . In cases where a neurological condition underlies a visual field deficit behavior an entity may be interested in this information. For example data from the interaction of a user exhibiting failure to acknowledge an onscreen item due to a neurological condition may be excluded from a survey by an entity . Alternatively for example data about the behavior of a user with a visual field deficit relative to an advertiser specified attribute may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying characteristics of users with positive or negative responses to for example specific advertising.

An example of a visual field test function may be a measure of a user s gross visual acuity for example using a Snellen eye chart or visual equivalent on a display. Alternatively a campimeter may be used to conduct a visual field test. A visual field test module and or user health test function unit can prompt a user to activate a portion of a display when the user can detect an object entering their field of view from a peripheral location relative to a fixed point of focus either with both eyes or with one eye covered at a time. Such testing could be done in the context of for example a new email alert including an advertiser specified attribute that requires clicking and that appears in various locations on a display. Based upon the location of decreased visual field the defect can be localized for example in a quadrant system.

Visual field defects may indicate optic nerve conditions such as pre chiasmatic lesions which include fractures of the sphenoid bone e.g. transecting the optic nerve retinal tumors or masses compressing the optic nerve. Such conditions may result in unilateral blindness and unilaterally unreactive pupil although the pupil may react to light applied to the contralateral eye . Bi temporal hemianopsia can be caused by glaucoma pituitary adenoma craniopharyngioma or saccular Berry aneurysm at the optic chiasm. Post chiasmatic lesions are associated with homonymous hemianopsia or quadrantanopsia depending on the location of the lesion. A pre chiasmatic lesion results in ipsilateral eye blindness. A chiasmatic lesion can result in bi temporal hemianopsia i.e. tunnel vision . Post chiasmatic lesions proximal to the geniculate ganglion can result in left or right homonymous hemianopsia. Lesions distal to the geniculate ganglion can result in upper or lower homonymous quadrantanopsia.

In the context of the above visual field test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered visual field may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered visual field or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered visual field. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one pupil movement or eye movement test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one pupil movement or eye movement test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A specified eye movement or pupil movement test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module user image data and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Pupillary reflex or eye movement can be tested for example by measuring user pupil and or eye movements perhaps in relation to items on a display including an advertiser specified attribute . Pupillary reflex or eye movement information may be of interest to an advertising entity for example where a user performs actions within a local instance of application such as a computerized game world with respect to an advertisement in the computerized game world. For example a user s eye movement to a part of the screen containing an advertisement may be of interest to an advertiser for purposes of advertisement placement or determining advertising noticeability and or effectiveness within the computerized game world. For example knowing that a user s eyes have been attracted by an advertisement may be of interest to an advertiser. Accordingly pupil dilation or contraction and or eye movements may comprise the user health test function output e.g. output of eye movement or pupil movement test module .

For example a merchant may be interested in measuring whether a user notices a virtual world advertisement in a particular virtual world environment. If the user exhibits eye movements toward the advertisement on a display then an advertiser may count this as user interest in the advertisement.

In another embodiment an internet search engine may want to know if a user is looking at an advertisement placed at a specific location on a screen showing search results. A camera may monitor the user s eye movements in order to determine whether the user looks at the advertisement for example during a certain time period. Interest in an advertisement also may be ascertained by measuring pupil dilation during a user s interaction with an advertiser specified attribute such as an advertisement.

Data capture module may include a smart camera that can capture images process them and issue control commands within a millisecond time frame. Such smart cameras are commercially available e.g. Hamamatsu s Intelligent Vision System http ip.hamamatsu.com en product info index.html . Such image capture systems may include dedicated processing elements for each pixel image sensor. Other camera systems may include for example a pair of infrared charge coupled device cameras to continuously monitor pupil size and position as a user watches a visual target moving forward and backward. This can provide real time data relating to pupil accommodation relative to objects on a display which information may be of interest to an entity e.g. http ip.hamamatsu.com en rd publication scientific american common pdf scientific0608.pdf .

Eye movement and or pupil movement may be measured by video based eye trackers. In these systems a camera focuses on one or both eyes and records eye movement as the viewer looks at a stimulus. Contrast may be used to locate the center of the pupil and infrared and near infrared non collumnated light may be used to create a corneal reflection. The vector between these two features can be used to compute gaze intersection with a surface after a calibration for an user .

Two types of eye tracking techniques include bright pupil eye tracking and dark pupil eye tracking. Their difference is based on the location of the illumination source with respect to the optics. If the illumination is coaxial with the optical path then the eye acts as a retroreflector as the light reflects off the retina creating a bright pupil effect similar to red eye. If the illumination source is offset from the optical path then the pupil appears dark.

Bright Pupil tracking creates greater iris pupil contrast allowing for more robust eye tracking with all iris pigmentation and greatly reduces interference caused by eyelashes and other obscuring features. It also allows for tracking in lighting conditions ranging from total darkness to very bright light. However bright pupil techniques are not recommended for tracking outdoors as extraneous IR sources may interfere with monitoring.

Eye tracking configurations can vary in some cases the measurement apparatus may be head mounted in some cases the head should be stable e.g. stabilized with a chin rest and in some cases the eye tracking may be done remotely to automatically track the head during motion. Most eye tracking systems use a sampling rate of at least 30 Hz. Although 50 60 Hz is most common many video based eye trackers run at 240 350 or even 1000 1250 Hz which is recommended in order to capture the detail of the very rapid eye movements during reading or during studies of neurology.

Eye movements are typically divided into fixations when the eye gaze pauses in a certain position and saccades when the eye gaze moves to another position. A series of fixations and saccades is called a scanpath. Most information from the eye is made available during a fixation not during a saccade. The central one or two degrees of the visual angle the fovea provide the bulk of visual information input from larger eccentricities the periphery generally is less informative. Therefore the locations of fixations along a scanpath indicate what information loci on the stimulus were processed during an eye tracking session. On average fixations last for around 200 milliseconds during the reading of linguistic text and 350 milliseconds during the viewing of a scene. Preparing a saccade towards a new goal takes around 200 milliseconds.

Scanpaths are useful for analyzing cognitive intent interest and salience. Other biological factors some as simple as gender may affect the scanpath as well. Eye tracking in human computer interaction typically investigates the scanpath for usability purposes or as a method of input in gaze contingent displays also known as gaze based interfaces.

There are two primary components to most eye tracking studies statistical analysis and graphic rendering. These are both based mainly on eye fixations on specific elements. Statistical analyses generally sum the number of eye data observations that fall in a particular region. Commercial software packages may analyze eye tracking and show the relative probability of eye fixation on each feature in a website. This allows for a broad analysis of which site elements received attention and which ones were ignored. Other behaviors such as blinks saccades and cognitive engagement can be reported by commercial software packages. Statistical comparisons can be made to test for example competitors prototypes or subtle changes to a web design. They can also be used to compare participants in different demographic groups. Statistical analyses may quantify where users look sometimes directly and sometimes based on models of higher order phenomena e.g. cognitive engagement .

In addition to statistical analysis it is often useful to provide visual depictions of eye tracking results. One method is to create a video of an eye tracking testing session with the gaze of a participant superimposed upon it. This allows one to effectively see through the eyes of the consumer during interaction with a target medium. Another method graphically depicts the scanpath of a single participant during a given time interval. Analysis may show each fixation and eye movement of a participant during a search on a virtual shelf display of breakfast cereals analyzed and rendered with a commercial software package. For example a different color may represent one second of viewing time allowing for a determination of the order in which products are seen. Analyses such as these may be used as evidence of specific trends in visual behavior.

A similar method sums the eye data of multiple participants during a given time interval as a heat map. A heat map may be produced by a commercial software package and shows the density of eye fixations for several participants superimposed on the original stimulus for example a magazine cover. Red and orange spots represent areas with high densities of eye fixations. This allows one to examine which regions attract the focus of the viewer.

Commercial eye tracking applications include web usability advertising sponsorship package design and automotive engineering. Eye tracking studies may presenting a target stimulus to a sample of consumers while an eye tracker is used to record the activity of the eye. Examples of target stimuli may include websites television programs sporting events films commercials magazines newspapers packages shelf displays consumer systems ATMs checkout systems kiosks and software. The resulting data can be statistically analyzed and graphically rendered to provide evidence of specific visual patterns. By examining fixations saccades pupil dilation blinks and a variety of other behaviors researchers can determine a great deal about the effectiveness of a given medium or product.

A prominent field of eye tracking research is web usability. While traditional usability techniques are often quite powerful in providing information on clicking and scrolling patterns eye tracking offers the ability to analyze user interaction between the clicks. This provides insight into which features are the most eye catching which features cause confusion and which ones are ignored altogether. Specifically eye tracking can be used to assess search efficiency branding online advertisement navigation usability overall design and many other site components. Analyses may target a prototype or competitor site in addition to the main client site.

Eye tracking is commonly used in a variety of different advertising media. Commercials print ads online ads and sponsored programs are all conducive to analysis with eye tracking technology. Analyses may focus on visibility of a target product or logo in the context of a magazine newspaper website virtual world or televised event. This allows researchers to assess in great detail how often a sample of consumers fixates on the target logo product or advertisement. In this way an advertiser can quantify the success of a given campaign in terms of actual visual attention.

Eye tracking also provides package designers with the opportunity to examine the visual behavior of a consumer while interacting with a target package. This may be used to analyze distinctiveness attractiveness and the tendency of the package to be chosen for purchase. Eye tracking is often used while the target product is in the prototype stage. Prototypes are tested against each other and against competitors to examine which specific elements are associated with high visibility and or appeal.

Another application of eye tracking research is in the field of automotive design. Eye tracking cameras may be integrated into automobiles to provide the vehicle with the capacity to assess in real time the visual behavior of the driver. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NHTSA estimates that drowsiness is the primary causal factor in 100 000 police reported accidents per year. Another NHTSA study suggests that 80 of collisions occur within three seconds of a distraction. By equipping automobiles with the ability to monitor drowsiness inattention and cognitive engagement driving safety could be dramatically enhanced. Lexus claims to have equipped its LS 460 automobile with the first driver monitor system in 2006 providing a warning if the driver takes his or her eye off the road.

Eye tracking is also used in communication systems for disabled persons allowing the user to speak mail surf the web and so with only the eyes as tool. Eye control works even when the user has involuntary body movement as a result of cerebral palsy or other disability and or when the user wears glasses.

Eye movement or pupil movement may be gauged from a user s interaction with an application . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in an advertiser specified attribute such as an advertisement displayed in the context of application in the form of eye or pupil movement in response to the advertisement in terms of repeated or sustained eye or pupil movements in relation to the advertisement e.g. camera measurements of eye movement tracking an advertisement and or pupil dilation in response to seeing an advertisement or the like.

User eye movement or pupil movement deficits may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest. In either case an entity may be interested in the output of a pupillary reflex or eye movement test module . In cases where a neurological condition underlies a specific pupillary reflex or eye movement behavior an entity may be interested in this information. For example data from a user exhibiting failure to look at an item in a virtual world due to a neurological condition may be excluded from a survey by an entity. Alternatively for example data about the behavior of a user with a certain pupillary reflex or eye movement behavior relative to an advertisement may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying characteristics of users with positive or negative responses to specific advertising.

An example of a pupillary reflex test function may be a measure of a user s pupils when exposed to light or objects at various distances. An eye movement or pupil movement test module and or user health test function unit may assess the size and symmetry of a user s pupils before and after a stimulus such as light or focal point. Anisocoria i.e. unequal pupils of up to 0.5 mm is fairly common and is benign provided pupillary reaction to light is normal. Pupillary reflex can be tested in a darkened room by shining light in one pupil and observing any constriction of the ipsilateral pupil direct reflex or the contralateral pupil contralateral reflex . If abnormality is found with light reaction pupillary accommodation can be tested by having the user focus on an object at a distance then focus on the object at about 10 cm from the nose. Pupils should converge and constrict at close focus.

Pupillary abnormalities may be a result of either optic nerve or oculomotor nerve lesions. An optic nerve lesion e.g. blind eye will not react to direct light and will not elicit a consensual pupillary constriction but will constrict if light is shown in the opposite eye. A Horner s syndrome lesion sympathetic chain lesion can also present as a pupillary abnormality. In Horner s syndrome the affected pupil is smaller but constricts to both light and near vision and may be associated with ptosis and anhydrosis. In an oculomotor nerve lesion the affected pupil is fixed and dilated and may be associated with ptosis and lateral deviation due to unopposed action of the abducens nerve . Small pupils that do not react to light but do constrict with near vision i.e. accommodate but do not react to light can be seen in central nervous system syphilis Argyll Robertson pupil .

Pupillary reflex deficiencies may indicate damage to the oculomotor nerve in basilar skull fracture or uncal herniation as a result of increased intracranial pressure. Masses or tumors in the cavernous sinus syphilis or aneurysm may also lead to compression of the oculomotor nerve. Injury to the oculomotor nerve may result in ptosis inferolateral displacement of the ipsilateral eye which can present as diplopia or strabismus or mydriasis.

An example of an eye movement test function may be an eye movement or pupil movement test module and or user health test function unit measurement of a user s ability to follow a target on a display with her eyes throughout a 360 range. Such testing may be done in the context of a user playing a game or participating in a videoconference including an advertiser specified attribute . In such examples user application interaction data may be obtained through a camera in place as a user monitoring device that can monitor the eye movements of the user during interaction with the local instance of application .

Testing of the trochlear nerve or the abducens nerve for damage may involve measurement of extraocular movements. The trochlear nerve performs intorsion depression and abduction of the eye. A trochlear nerve lesion may present as extorsion of the ipsilateral eye and worsened diplopia when looking down. Damage to the abducens nerve may result in a decreased ability to abduct the eye.

Abnormalities in eye movement may indicate fracture of the sphenoid wing intracranial hemorrhage neoplasm or aneurysm. Such insults may present as extorsion of the ipsilateral eye. Individuals with this condition complain of worsened diplopia with attempted downgaze but improved diplopia with head tilted to the contralateral side. Injury to the abducens nerve may be caused by aneurysm a mass in the cavernous sinus or a fracture of the skull base. Such insults may result in extraocular palsy defined by medial deviation of the ipsilateral eye. Users with this condition may present with diplopia that improves when the contralateral eye is abducted.

Nystagmus is a rapid involuntary rhythmic eye movement with the eyes moving quickly in one direction quick phase and then slowly in the other direction slow phase . The direction of nystagmus is defined by the direction of its quick phase e.g. right nystagmus is due to a right moving quick phase . Nystagmus may occur in the vertical or horizontal directions or in a semicircular movement. Terminology includes downbeat nystagmus upbeat nystagmus seesaw nystagmus periodic alternating nystagmus and pendular nystagmus. There are other similar alterations in periodic eye movements saccadic oscillations such as opsoclonus or ocular flutter. One can think of nystagmus as the combination of a slow adjusting eye movement slow phase as would be seen with the vestibulo ocular reflex followed by a quick saccade quick phase when the eye has reached the limit of its rotation.

In medicine the clinical importance of nystagmus is that it indicates that the user s spatial sensory system perceives rotation and is rotating the eyes to adjust. Thus it depends on the coordination of activities between two major physiological systems the vision and the vestibular apparatus which controls posture and balance . This may be physiological i.e. normal or pathological.

Vestibular nystagmus may be central or peripheral. Important differentiating features between central and peripheral nystagmus include the following peripheral nystagmus is unidirectional with the fast phase opposite the lesion central nystagmus may be unidirectional or bidirectional purely vertical or torsional nystagmus suggests a central location central vestibular nystagmus is not dampened or inhibited by visual fixation tinnitus or deafness often is present in peripheral vestibular nystagmus but it usually is absent in central vestibular nystagmus. According to Alexander s law the nystagmus associated with peripheral lesions becomes more pronounced with gaze toward the side of the fast beating component with central nystagmus the direction of the fast component is directed toward the side of gaze e.g. left beating in left gaze right beating in right gaze and up beating in upgaze .

Downbeat nystagmus is defined as nystagmus with the fast phase beating in a downward direction. The nystagmus usually is of maximal intensity when the eyes are deviated temporally and slightly inferiorly. With the eyes in this position the nystagmus is directed obliquely downward. In most users removal of fixation e.g. by Frenzel goggles does not influence slow phase velocity to a considerable extent however the frequency of saccades may diminish.

The presence of downbeat nystagmus is highly suggestive of disorders of the cranio cervical junction e.g. Arnold Chiari malformation . This condition also may occur with bilateral lesions of the cerebellar flocculus and bilateral lesions of the medial longitudinal fasciculus which carries optokinetic input from the posterior semicircular canals to the third nerve nuclei. It may also occur when the tone within pathways from the anterior semicircular canals is relatively higher than the tone within the posterior semicircular canals. Under such circumstances the relatively unopposed neural activity from the anterior semicircular canals causes a slow upward pursuit movement of the eyes with a fast corrective downward saccade. Additional causes include demyelination e.g. as a result of multiple sclerosis microvascular disease with vertebrobasilar insufficiency brain stem encephalitis tumors at the foramen magnum e.g. meningioma or cerebellar hemangioma trauma drugs e.g. alcohol lithium or anti seizure medications nutritional imbalances e.g. Wernicke encephalopathy parenteral feeding magnesium deficiency or heat stroke.

Upbeat nystagmus is defined as nystagmus with the fast phase beating in an upward direction. Daroff and Troost described two distinct types. The first type consists of a large amplitude nystagmus that increases in intensity with upward gaze. This type is suggestive of a lesion of the anterior vermis of the cerebellum. The second type consists of a small amplitude nystagmus that decreases in intensity with upward gaze and increases in intensity with downward gaze. This type is suggestive of lesions of the medulla including the perihypoglossal nuclei the adjacent medial vestibular nucleus and the nucleus intercalatus structures important in gaze holding . Upbeat nystagmus may also be an indication of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo.

Torsional rotary nystagmus refers to a rotary movement of the globe about its anteroposterior axis. Torsional nystagmus is accentuated on lateral gaze. Most nystagmus resulting from dysfunction of the vestibular system has a torsional component superimposed on a horizontal or vertical nystagmus. This condition occurs with lesions of the anterior and posterior semicircular canals on the same side e.g. lateral medullary syndrome or Wallenberg syndrome . Lesions of the lateral medulla may produce a torsional nystagmus with the fast phase directed away from the side of the lesion. This type of nystagmus can be accentuated by otolithic stimulation by placing the user on their side with the intact side down e.g. if the lesion is on the left the nystagmus is accentuated when the user is placed on his right side .

This condition may occur when the tone within the pathways of the posterior semicircular canals is relatively higher than the tone within the anterior semicircular canals and it can occur from lesions of the ventral tegmental tract or the brachium conjunctivum which carry optokinetic input from the anterior semicircular canals to the third nerve nuclei.

Pendular nystagmus is a multivectorial nystagmus i.e. horizontal vertical circular and elliptical with an equal velocity in each direction that may reflect brain stem or cerebellar dysfunction. Often there is marked asymmetry and dissociation between the eyes. The amplitude of the nystagmus may vary in different positions of gaze. Causes of pendular nystagmus may include demyelinating disease monocular or binocular visual deprivation oculapalatal myoclonus internuclear ophthalmoplegia or brain stem or cerebellar dysfunction.

Horizontal nystagmus is a well recognized finding in patients with a unilateral disease of the cerebral hemispheres especially with large posterior lesions. It often is of low amplitude. Such patients show a constant velocity drift of the eyes toward the intact hemisphere with fast saccade directed toward the side of the lesion.

Seesaw nystagmus is a pendular oscillation that consists of elevation and intorsion of one eye and depression and extorsion of the fellow eye that alternates every half cycle. This striking and unusual form of nystagmus may be seen in patients with chiasmal lesions suggesting loss of the crossed visual inputs from the decussating fibers of the optic nerve at the level of the chiasm as the cause or lesions in the rostral midbrain. This type of nystagmus is not affected by otolithic stimulation. Seesaw nystagmus may also be caused by parasellar lesions or visual loss secondary to retinitis pigmentosa.

Gaze evoked nystagmus is produced by the attempted maintenance of an extreme eye position. It is the most common form of nystagmus. Gaze evoked nystagmus is due to a deficient eye position signal in the neural integrator network. Thus the eyes cannot be maintained at an eccentric orbital position and are pulled back toward primary position by the elastic forces of the orbital fascia. Then corrective saccade moves the eyes back toward the eccentric position in the orbit.

Gaze evoked nystagmus may be caused by structural lesions that involve the neural integrator network which is dispersed between the vestibulocerebellum the medulla e.g. the region of the nucleus prepositus hypoglossi and adjacent medial vestibular nucleus NPH MVN and the interstitial nucleus of Cajal INC . Patients recovering from a gaze palsy go through a period where they are able to gaze in the direction of the previous palsy but they are unable to sustain gaze in that direction therefore the eyes drift slowly back toward primary position followed by a corrective saccade. When this is repeated a gaze evoked or gaze paretic nystagmus results.

Gaze evoked nystagmus often is encountered in healthy users in which case it is called end point nystagmus. End point nystagmus usually can be differentiated from gaze evoked nystagmus caused by disease in that the former has lower intensity and more importantly is not associated with other ocular motor abnormalities. Gaze evoked nystagmus also may be caused by alcohol or drugs including anti convulsants e.g. phenobarbital phenytoin or carbamazepine at therapeutic dosages.

Spasmus nutans is a rare condition with the clinical triad of nystagmus head nodding and torticollis. Onset is from age 3 15 months with disappearance by 3 or 4 years. Rarely it may be present to age 5 6 years. The nystagmus typically consists of small amplitude high frequency oscillations and usually is bilateral but it can be monocular asymmetric and variable in different positions of gaze. Spasmus nutans occurs in otherwise healthy children. Chiasmal suprachiasmal or third ventricle gliomas may cause a condition that mimics spasmus nutans.

Periodic alternating nystagmus is a conjugate horizontal jerk nystagmus with the fast phase beating in one direction for a period of approximately 1 2 minutes. The nystagmus has an intervening neutral phase lasting 10 20 seconds the nystagmus begins to beat in the opposite direction for 1 2 minutes then the process repeats itself. The mechanism may be disruption of the vestibulo ocular tracts at the pontomedullary junction. Causes of periodic alternating nystagmus may include Arnold Chiari malformation demyelinating disease spinocerebellar degeneration lesions of the vestibular nuclei head trauma encephalitis syphilis posterior fossa tumors or binocular visual deprivation e.g. ocular media opacities .

Abducting nystagmus of internuclear ophthalmoplegia INO is nystagmus in the abducting eye contralateral to a medial longitudinal fasciculus MLF lesion.

In the context of the above eye movement or pupil movement test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered eye movement or pupil movement function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered eye movement or pupil movement function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered eye movement or pupil movement function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one face pattern test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one face pattern test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A specified face pattern test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module user image data and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Face pattern can be tested for example by measuring user facial features perhaps in relation to a control user face pattern image captured when the user was not interacting with application and or advertiser specified attribute . Alternatively user face pattern module output may be compared to an average face pattern compiled from a large number of faces. Face pattern information may be of interest to an advertising entity for example where a user exhibits some emotion with respect to an advertiser specified attribute such as an advertisement in for example an email or virtual world. In one embodiment a user s reaction to an onscreen advertisement may be a smile or frown that may be detectable by a camera monitoring the interaction. Information suggesting that a user smiles in response to viewing an advertisement may be of interest to an advertiser. Accordingly facial patterns may comprise the user health test function output e.g. output of face pattern test module .

For example a merchant may be interested in determining whether a user reacts positively or negatively or not at all to a virtual world advertisement in a particular virtual world environment. If the user exhibits changes in facial features in response to viewing the advertisement on a display then an advertiser may gauge user interest in the advertisement. The fact pattern test module may match a user s face pattern with a one of a set of emotion correlated face patterns. For example the fact pattern test module may match a user s smile with a consensus smile image to identify a positive reaction to an advertiser specified attribute . Accordingly user eye movement or other user health test function may be tracked together with face pattern data to provide information as to events that may trigger a given face pattern such as viewing an advertisement clicking on an advertisement and or hearing an advertisement.

In another embodiment an internet search engine may want information about a user s reaction to an avatar bearing an advertisement in a virtual world. A camera may monitor the user s facial features at times before and or during and or after the user interacts with the avatar. Positive interest in the advertisement bearing avatar may be ascertained by detecting a smile negative interest in the advertisement bearing avatar may be ascertained by detecting a frown smirk knitting of the brows or other known facial feature indicating displeasure.

Face pattern may be measured relative to a user s interaction with an application . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in an advertiser specified attribute such as an advertisement displayed in the context of application in the form of altered face pattern in response to the advertisement in such as a face movement associated with the advertisement e.g. camera measurements of facial features in response to seeing an advertisement or the like.

User face pattern changes may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest or such changes may be unrelated to an onscreen item or sound. In any case an entity may be interested in the output of a face pattern test module . In cases where a neurological condition underlies a specific face pattern change an entity may be interested in this information. For example data from an individual exhibiting failure to react to an item in a virtual world due to a neurological condition perhaps due to Bell s palsy may be excluded from a survey by the entity receiving the data. Alternatively for example data about the face pattern changes of a user including smiling laughing grinning frowning or the like may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying a positive response negative response or lack of response of a user to advertising.

An example of a face pattern test function may be a face pattern test module and or user health test function unit that can compare a user s face while at rest specifically looking for nasolabial fold flattening or drooping of the corner of the mouth with the user s face while moving certain facial features. The user may be asked to raise her eyebrows wrinkle her forehead show her teeth puff out her cheeks or close her eyes tight. Such testing may done via facial pattern recognition software used in conjunction with for example a videoconferencing application. Any weakness or asymmetry may indicate a lesion in the facial nerve. In general a peripheral lesion of the facial nerve may affect the upper and lower face while a central lesion may only affect the lower face. Movement of facial features may be identifiable as an indicator of emotion e.g. associating a smile with pleasure laughing with pleasure a frown with displeasure pursing of the lips with displeasure yawning with boredom.

Abnormalities in facial expression or pattern may indicate a petrous fracture. Peripheral facial nerve injury may also be due to compression tumor or aneurysm. Bell s Palsy is thought to be caused by idiopathic inflammation of the facial nerve within the facial canal. A peripheral facial nerve lesion involves muscles of both the upper and lower face and can involve loss of taste sensation from the anterior of the tongue via the chorda tympani . A central facial nerve palsy due to tumor or hemorrhage results in sparing of upper and frontal orbicularis occuli due to crossed innervation. Spared ability to raise eyebrows and wrinkle the forehead helps differentiate a peripheral palsy from a central process. This also may indicate stroke or multiple sclerosis.

In the context of the above face pattern test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered face pattern may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered face pattern or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered face pattern. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one hearing test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one hearing test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A specified hearing test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module user image data and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

Hearing can be tested for example by measuring user reaction to sound during an interaction between user and application and or advertiser specified attribute . Hearing can be tested for example by measuring a user s reaction to a sound perhaps by way of a face pattern image change and or a device signal such as a keyboard or mouse input signal acknowledging that the sound was heard by the user . User hearing information may be of interest to an advertising entity for example where a user exhibits some reaction with respect to an audio advertisement for example on a website or in a virtual world. In one embodiment a user s reaction to an audio advertisement may be a smile or frown that may be detectable by a camera monitoring the interaction. Information from the user application interaction data may suggest that a user has activated the sound portion of the website or the virtual world and is paying attention to the sound advertisement this information may be of interest to an advertiser. Accordingly reaction to audio signals or user hearing data may comprise the user health test function output .

Hearing may be measured relative to a user s interaction with an application . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in an advertisement displayed in the context of application in the form of the user turning on or increasing the volume of the advertisement e.g. increasing device volume or increasing software volume controls or the like .

User hearing data may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest or such data may be unrelated to an application sound. In any case an entity may be interested in the output of a hearing test module . In cases where a neurological condition underlies a specific hearing behavior such as an apparent hearing deficit an entity may be interested in this information. For example data from an individual exhibiting failure to react to a sound in a virtual world due to a neurological condition may be excluded from a survey by the entity receiving the data. Alternatively for example data about the hearing ability of a user including listening habits relative to advertisements may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying positive negative or lack of responses to specific advertising.

An example of a hearing test function may be a hearing test module and or user health test function unit conducting a gross hearing assessment of a user s ability to hear sounds. This can be done by simply presenting sounds to the user or determining if the user can hear sounds presented to each of the ears. For example a hearing test module and or user health test function unit may vary volume settings or sound frequency on a user s device or within an application over time to test user hearing. Alternatively a hearing test module and or user health test function unit in a mobile phone device may carry out various hearing test functions.

Petrous fractures that involve the vestibulocochlear nerve may result in hearing loss vertigo or nystagmus frequently positional immediately after the injury. Severe middle ear infection can cause similar symptoms but have a more gradual onset. Acoustic neuroma is associated with gradual ipsilateral hearing loss. Due to the close proximity of the vestibulocochlear nerve with the facial nerve acoustic neuromas often present with involvement of the facial nerve. Neurofibromatosis type II is associated with bilateral acoustic neuromas. Vertigo may be associated with anything that compresses the vestibulocochlear nerve including vascular abnormalities inflammation or neoplasm.

In the context of the above hearing test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Reduced hearing function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of reduced hearing function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with reduced hearing function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. An example of a relevant website can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one motor skill or body movement test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one motor skill or body movement test function responsive to the interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A specified motor skill or body movement test module may respond to user application interaction data via data detection module data capture module user image data and or user input data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

A user s motor skill or body movement can be tested for example by measuring a user s ability to effect an input into for example the device . User motor skill information may be of interest to an advertising entity for example where a user exhibits some reaction with respect to an advertisement for example in a computerized game world or in another virtual world. In one embodiment a user s reaction to an advertisement may include clicking on an icon representing a merchant s product as a prelude to a purchase. Information from the user application interaction data may suggest that a user has certain likes and dislikes among listed products on a webpage or among various advertisements this information may be of interest to a merchant and or advertiser. Accordingly user motor skill or body movement test module output may comprise the user health test function output .

Motor skill or body movement may be measured relative to a user s interaction with an application . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in an advertisement displayed in the context of application in the form of typing clicking or otherwise acknowledging the advertisement e.g. clicking an image on a webpage responding to a prompt or the like .

User motor skill data may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest or such data may be unrelated to an application visual object or sound or to a user health test function object or sound. In any case an entity may be interested in the output of a motor skill or body movement test module . In cases where a neurological condition underlies a specific motor skill attribute or behavior such as an apparent motor skill deficit an entity may be interested in this information. For example data from an individual exhibiting failure to manipulate a pointing device to effect a response due to a neurological condition may be excluded from a survey by the entity receiving the data or alternatively the entity may provide alternative means for the user to respond such as by voice. Alternatively for example data about the motor skill ability of a user including typing and or pointing device proficiency relative to an application user health test function and or advertisement may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying positive negative or lack of responses to specific advertising.

An example of a motor skill test function may be a measure of a user s ability to perform a physical task or a measure of tremor in a body part i.e. a rhythmic involuntary or oscillating movement of a body part occurring in isolation or as part of a clinical syndrome . A motor skill or body movement test module and or user health test function unit may measure for example a user s ability to traverse a path on a display in straight line with a pointing device to type a certain sequence of characters without error or to type a certain number of characters without repetition. For example a wobbling cursor on a display may indicate ataxia in the user or a wobbling cursor while the user is asked to maintain the cursor on a fixed point on a display may indicate early Parkinson s disease symptoms. Alternatively a user may be prompted to switch tasks for example to alternately type some characters using a keyboard and click on some target with a mouse. If a user has a motor skill deficiency she may have difficulty stopping one task and starting the other task.

In clinical practice characterization of tremor is important for etiologic consideration and treatment. Common types of tremor include resting tremor postural tremor action or kinetic tremor task specific tremor or intention or terminal tremor. Resting tremor occurs when a body part is at complete rest against gravity. Tremor amplitude tends to decrease with voluntary activity. Causes of resting tremor may include Parkinson s disease Parkinson plus syndromes e.g. multiple system atrophy progressive supranuclear palsy or corticobasal degeneration Wilson s disease drug induced Parkinsonism e.g. neuroleptics Reglan or phenthiazines or long standing essential tremor.

Postural tremor occurs during maintenance of a position against gravity and increases with action. Action or kinetic tremor occurs during voluntary movement. Examples of postural and action tremors may include essential tremor primarily postural metabolic disorders e.g. thyrotoxicosis pheochromocytoma or hypoglycemia drug induced parkinsonism e.g. lithium amiodarone or beta adrenergic agonists toxins e.g. alcohol withdrawal heavy metals neuropathic tremor e.g. neuropathy .

Task specific tremor emerges during specific activity. An example of this type is primary writing tremor. Intention or terminal tremor manifests as a marked increase in tremor amplitude during a terminal portion of targeted movement. Examples of intention tremor include cerebellar tremor and multiple sclerosis tremor.

A user s body movement ability can be tested for example by measuring a user s ability to move various body parts. User body movement information may be of interest to an advertising entity for example where a user exhibits some reaction with respect to an advertisement for example on a website. In one embodiment a user s reaction to an advertisement may include interacting with a touchpad to move and or select an icon representing a merchant s product. Information from the user application interaction data may suggest that a user has certain likes and dislikes among listed products on a webpage or among various advertisements this information may be of interest to a merchant and or advertiser. Accordingly user body movement data may comprise the user health test function output .

Body movement may be measured relative to a user s interaction with an application . User application interaction data may demonstrate user interest in an advertisement displayed in the context of application in the form of typing clicking hand waving gesturing running or otherwise acknowledging the advertisement e.g. clicking an image on a webpage waving a remote control device responding to a prompt jumping for joy or the like .

User body movement data may or may not be distinguishable from user lack of interest or such data may be unrelated to an application visual object or sound or to a user health test function object or sound. In any case an entity may be interested in the output of a motor skill or body movement test module . In cases where a neurological condition underlies a specific body movement attribute or behavior such as an apparent body movement deficit an entity may be interested in this information. For example data from an individual exhibiting erratic body movements due to a neurological condition may be excluded from a survey by the entity receiving the data or alternatively the entity may provide alternative means for the user to respond such as by voice. Alternatively for example data about the body movement ability of a user including typing and or pointing device proficiency relative to an application user health test function and or advertisement may be of interest to an entity in terms of identifying positive negative or lack of responses to specific advertising.

An example of a body movement test function may be first observing the user for atrophy or fasciculation in the trapezius muscles shoulder drooping or displacement of the scapula. A motor skill or body movement test module and or user health test function unit may then instruct the user to turn the head and shrug shoulders against resistance. Weakness in turning the head in one direction may indicate a problem in the contralateral spinal accessory nerve while weakness in shoulder shrug may indicate an ipsilateral spinal accessory nerve lesion. Ipsilateral paralysis of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles due to neoplasm aneurysm or radical neck surgery also may indicate damage to the spinal accessory nerve. A motor skill or body movement test module and or user health test function unit may perform gait analysis for example in the context of a security system surveillance application involving video monitoring of the user.

Cerebellar disorders can disrupt body coordination or gait while leaving other motor functions relatively intact. The term ataxia is often used to describe the abnormal movements seen in coordination disorders. In ataxia there are medium to large amplitude involuntary movements with an irregular oscillatory quality superimposed on and interfering with the normal smooth trajectory of movement. Overshoot is also commonly seen as part of ataxic movements and is sometimes referred to as past pointing when target oriented movements are being discussed. Another feature of coordination disorders is dysdiadochokinesia i.e. abnormal alternating movements . Cerebellar lesions can cause different kinds of coordination problems depending on their location. One important distinction is between truncal ataxia and appendicular ataxia. Appendicular ataxia affects movements of the extremities and is usually caused by lesions of the cerebellar hemispheres and associated pathways. Truncal ataxia affects the proximal musculature especially that involved in gait stability and is caused by midline damage to the cerebellar vermis and associated pathways.

Fine movements of the hands and feet also may be tested by a motor skill or body movement test module and or user health test function unit . Rapid alternating movements such as wiping one palm alternately with the palm and dorsum of the other hand may be tested as well. A common test of coordination is the finger nose finger test in which the user is asked to alternately touch their nose and an examiner s finger as quickly as possible. Ataxia may be revealed if the examiner s finger is held at the extreme of the user s reach and if the examiner s finger is occasionally moved suddenly to a different location. Overshoot may be measured by having the user raise both arms suddenly from their lap to a specified level in the air. In addition pressure can be applied to the user s outstretched arms and then suddenly released. To test the accuracy of movements in a way that requires very little strength a user can be prompted to repeatedly touch a line drawn on the crease of the user s thumb with the tip of their forefinger alternatively a motor skill or body movement test module and or user health test function unit may prompt a user to repeatedly touch an object on a touchscreen display.

Normal performance of motor tasks depends on the integrated functioning of multiple sensory and motor subsystems. These include position sense pathways lower motor neurons upper motor neurons the basal ganglia and the cerebellum. Thus in order to convincingly demonstrate that abnormalities are due to a cerebellar lesion one should first test for normal joint position sense strength and reflexes and confirm the absence of involuntary movements caused by basal ganglia lesions. As discussed above appendicular ataxia is usually caused by lesions of the cerebellar hemispheres and associated pathways while truncal ataxia is often caused by damage to the midline cerebellar vermis and associated pathways.

Another body movement test is the Romberg test which may indicate a problem in the vestibular or proprioception system. A user is asked to stand with feet together touching each other . Then the user is prompted to close their eyes. If a problem is present the user may begin to sway or fall. With the eyes open three sensory systems provide input to the cerebellum to maintain truncal stability. These are vision proprioception and vestibular sense. If there is a mild lesion in the vestibular or proprioception systems the user is usually able to compensate with the eyes open. When the user closes their eyes however visual input is removed and instability can be brought out. If there is a more severe proprioceptive or vestibular lesion or if there is a midline cerebellar lesion causing truncal instability the user will be unable to maintain this position even with their eyes open.

In the context of the above motor skill or body movement test function as set forth herein available data arising from the user health test function are one or more of various types of user application interaction data described herein. Altered motor skill or body movement function may indicate certain of the possible conditions discussed above. One skilled in the art can establish or determine parameters or values relating to the one or more types of user data indicative of altered motor skill function or the one or more types of user data indicative of a likely condition associated with altered motor skill function. Parameters or values can be set by one skilled in the art based on knowledge direct experience or using available resources such as websites textbooks journal articles or the like. Examples of relevant websites can be found in the online Merck Manual at http www.merck.com mmhe sec06 ch077 ch077c.html tb0771 and at http www.jeffmann.net NeuroGuidemaps tremor.html. Examples of relevant textbooks include Patten J. P. Neurological Differential Diagnosis Second Ed. Springer Verlag London 2005 Kasper Braunwald Fauci Hauser Longo and Jameson Harrison s Principles of Internal Medicine 16Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2005 Greenberg M. S. Handbook of Neurosurgery 6Ed. Thieme Lakeland 2006 and Victor M. and Ropper A. H. Adams and Victor s Principles of Neurology 7Ed. McGraw Hill New York 2001.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to at least a keyboard mediated interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to a keyboard mediated interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A user input device may generate and or record user application interaction data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

User application interaction data may be from a keyboard mediated interaction between a user and at least one application . For example a user may use a keyboard at a personal computer a keyboard on a mobile device such as a cell phone a mobile email and or internet device such as a blackberry or the like. Keyboard generated data may be the basis for a number of user health test functions. For example a reaction time test function implemented by mental status test module may be responsive to user typing data in which case user typing speed may be indicative of user reaction time.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to at least a pointing device mediated interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to at least a pointing device mediated interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A user input device user monitoring device and or user interface may generate and or record user application interaction data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

User application interaction data may be from a pointing device mediated interaction between a user and at least one application . For example a user may use a mouse trackball infrared signal a stylus a wired or wireless remote pointing device such as a Wii remote finger on a touchpad or the like. Pointing device generated data may be the basis for a number of user health test functions. For example a motor skill test function implemented by motor skill or body movement test module may be responsive to a user s ability to manipulate a remote control device including an accelerometer in the context of a game in which case user pointing proficiency may be indicative of the user s motor skill.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to at least an imaging device mediated interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to at least an imaging device mediated interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A user monitoring device and or user interface may generate and or record user application interaction data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified attribute .

User application interaction data may be from an imaging device mediated interaction between a user and at least one application . For example a user and or device may capture user image data with a still camera a video camera such as a webcam an infrared camera scanner or the like.

An example of user image data may include data from a user monitoring device such as a video capture device or a video communication device for example when a user s image is captured as a photograph or video when using an application or when a user s image is captured when communicating via a photography or video based application. Other examples of user image data may include biometric data such as facial pattern data eye scanning data or the like. Such user image data may indicate for example alertness attention motor skill function impairment or the like as discussed above.

User image data may include results of visual spectrum imaging that can image changes in facial expression body movement or the like that can be indicative of an interaction indicative of a symptom and or indicative of a disease. User image data may also include other kinds of imaging such as infrared imaging that can read a heat signature or near infrared imaging that can image blood flow changes in the brain and other parts of the body. Other kinds of imaging such as ultrasound imaging and or x ray imaging may also be used to produce image data. All of these imaging methods can used to give indications of user behavior and or physiologic state. Further reflected image or refracted image data may be used including x ray image data ultrasound image data and or near infrared image data. Near infrared imaging may be used to test for baseline physiologic states and metabolism as well as physiologic and metabolic changes. User image data may be of all or a portion of the user such as a head to toe image a face image an image of fingers an image of an eye or the like. Such images may be in the visual or non visual wavelength range of the electromagnetic spectrum.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to at least an audio device mediated interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to at least an audio device mediated interaction between the user and the at least one advertiser specified attribute . A user input device user monitoring device and or user interface may generate and or record user application interaction data indicating an interaction between the user and at least one audio device implemented advertiser specified attribute such as an audio commercial.

User application interaction data may be from an audio device mediated interaction between a user and at least one application . For example a user may listen to audio data including an advertiser specified attribute on a device such as a computer a personal entertainment device e.g. a cell phone such as an iphone a music player such as an ipod or the like. As a further example a user and or device may capture user voice or speech data with a microphone telephone cell phone or the like. Alternatively user application interaction data may include an audio signal transmitted to the user by for example device via a speaker including headphones earphones earbuds or the like.

An example of user voice or speech data may include data from a speech or voice input device or user monitoring device such as a telephonic device or a video communication device with sound receiving transmission capability for example when a user task requires for example speaking singing or other vocalization as discussed above.

Various kinds of user data may be inputs for a user health test function. A user health test function unit can receive user application interaction data from an interaction between user and local instance of application . Such user application interaction data may be generated via a user interface user input device or a user monitoring device . User health test function unit either resident on device or resident on an external device such as server that communicates with device can obtain for example user data such as user reaction time data user speech or voice data user hearing data user body movement eye movement or pupil movement data user face pattern data user keystroke data user pointing device manipulation data user cognitive function data user memory function data user internet usage data and or user image data for example as user application interaction data .

Examples of user health test function output may include baseline user attributes such as reaction time motor skill function visual field range or the like. Further examples of user health test function output may include an aggregation or distillation of user data acquired over a period of time. Statistical filters may be applied to user data by the user health test function or profiles corresponding to various health related problems may be matched with user data and or a distillation of user data.

Examples of reaction time data may include speed of a user s response to an advertiser specified attribute such as a prompting icon on a display for example by clicking with a mouse or other pointing device or by some other response mode. For example within a game situation a user may be prompted to click on an advertiser specified target as a test of alertness or awareness. Data may be collected once or many times for this task. A multiplicity of data points indicating a change in reaction time may be indicative of a change in alertness awareness neglect construction memory hearing or other user health attribute as discussed above.

An example of user movement data may include data from a pointing device when a user is prompted to activate or click an advertiser specified area on a display to test for example visual field range or motor skill function. Another example is visual data of a user s body for example during a videoconference wherein changes in facial movement limb movement or other body movements are detectable as discussed above perhaps during an interaction between a user and an advertiser specified attribute .

An example of user cognitive function data may include data from a text or number input device or user monitoring device when a user is prompted to for example spell write speak or calculate in order to test for example alertness ability to calculate speech motor skill function or the like as discussed above perhaps during an interaction between a user and an advertiser specified attribute .

An example of user memory function data may include data from a user input device such as a text or number input device or a user monitoring device when a user is prompted to for example spell write speak or calculate in order to test for example short term memory long term memory or the like as discussed above.

An example of user eye movement data may include data from a user monitoring device such as a video communication device for example when a user task requires tracking advertiser specified objects on a display reading or during resting states between activities in an application as discussed above. A further example includes pupillary reflex data from the user at rest following an interaction between a user and an advertiser specified attribute or during an activity required by an application or user health test function .

An example of user internet usage data may include data from a user s pointing device including ability to click on elements of a web page for example browser history function including sites visited ability to navigate from one site to another ability to go back to a previous website if prompted or the like monitoring device such as a video communication device for example when an application task or user health test function task requires interaction with a web browser. Such data may indicate cognitive memory or motor skill function impairment or the like as discussed above. Other examples of internet usage data may include data from a user s offline interaction with internet content obtained while online including for example an interaction between a user and an advertiser specified attribute on a web page.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one device implemented game configured to present the at least one advertiser specified attribute.

For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one device implemented game configured to present the at least one advertiser specified attribute . Such a game may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of a user input device include a text entry device such as a keyboard a pointing device such as a mouse a touchscreen a video game controller or the like. Examples of a user monitoring device include a microphone a photography device a video device or the like.

Examples of a device implemented game may include a computer game such as for example solitaire puzzle games role playing games first person shooting games strategy games sports games racing games adventure games or the like. Such games may be played offline or through a network e.g. online games . A device implemented game also may include virtual world programs such as Second Life and the Sims.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one device implemented security application configured to present the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one device implemented security application configured to present the at least one advertiser specified attribute . Such a security application may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of a user input device include a text entry device such as a keyboard a pointing device such as a mouse a touchscreen a video game controller or the like. Examples of a user monitoring device include a microphone a photography device a video device or the like.

Examples of a security application may include a password entry program a code entry system a biometric identification application e.g. fingerprint scanner iris and or retina scanner voice or speech recognition system face pattern recognition system or the like a video monitoring system or the like.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one device implemented communication application configured to present at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one device implemented communication application configured to present the at least one advertiser specified attribute . Such a communication application may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of a user input device include a text entry device such as a keyboard a pointing device such as a mouse a touchscreen a video game controller or the like. In one embodiment a pen or other writing implement having electronic signaling capacity may be the user input device . Such a pen may include an accelerometer function and or other sensing functions that allow it to identify and or signal writing or other motion writing surface location of writing activity or the like. A pen including electronic sensing capability may include the capability to monitor a user s hand for temperature blood flow tremor fingerprints or other attributes. Other examples of a user monitoring device include a microphone a photography device a video device or the like.

Examples of a communication application may include various forms of one way or two way information transfer typically to from between or among devices. Some examples of communication applications include an email program a telephony application a videocommunication function an internet or other network messaging program a cell phone communication application or the like. Such a communication application may operate via text voice video or other means of communication combinations of these or other means of communication.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one device implemented productivity application configured to present the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one device implemented communication application configured to present the at least one advertiser specified attribute . Such a productivity application may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of a user input device include a text entry device such as a keyboard a pointing device such as a mouse a touchscreen a video game controller or the like. Examples of a user monitoring device include a microphone a photography device a video device or the like. Examples of a productivity application may include a word processing program a spreadsheet program business software or the like.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to the interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified color. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified color. Such an advertiser specified color may be found in the context of a user s interaction with application which may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of an advertiser specified color may include a red color on a banner advertisement on a website a gray color on a plaid suit worn by an avatar in a virtual world a yellow color on a shield worn by a character in a computer game a blue color on a product in a virtual world or the like.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to the interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified textual display. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified textual display. Such an advertiser specified textual display may be found in the context of a user s interaction with application which may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of an advertiser specificed textual display may include a slogan on a banner advertisement on a website a message on a t shirt worn by an avatar in a virtual world a sale advertisement on a product in a virtual world and or website or the like.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to the interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified design. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified design. Such an advertiser specified design may be found in the context of a user s interaction with application which may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of an advertiser specified design may include a trade dress of a product s packaging on a website a product configuration presented by an avatar in a virtual world an advertising design in a virtual world and or website or the like.

Operation depicts specifying at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to the interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified sound. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified sound. Such an advertiser specified sound may be found in the context of a user s interaction with application which may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of an advertiser specified sound may include a musical jingle on a website a product name spoken by an avatar and or user in a virtual world a musical work for sale or exchange or the like.

Operation depicts specifying at least one user health test function responsive to the interaction between the user and at least one device implemented application configured to present at least one advertiser specified brand. For example a user health test function unit and or user health test function assignment module may specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between the user and at least one advertiser specified brand. Such an advertiser specified brand may be found in the context of a user s interaction with application which may generate record and or elicit user application interaction data via a user interface user input device and or a user monitoring device . Examples of an advertiser specified brand may include for example a can of Coke on a website a McDonald s product presented by an avatar in a virtual world a Metallica song in an online game or the like.

Operation depicts sending to at least one entity at least one measure of the user s attention to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to at least one of an advertiser an advertising broker or a merchant at least one measure of the user s attention to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute.

In one embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertiser a user s reaction time data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specified game operable within a website. In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to a merchant entity a user s visual field data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specified display in a virtual world. In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertising broker a user s face pattern data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specificed musical work played as an adjunct to an email program word processing program or the like.

Operation depicts sending to at least one entity at least one measure of the user s pupil movements or eye movements relating to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to at least one of an advertiser an advertising broker or a merchant at least one measure of a user s pupil movements or eye movements relating to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute.

In one embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to a merchant a user s pupil movement data obtained during an interaction between the user and a product displayed on a website. In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertiser a user s eye movement data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertisement displayed in a virtual world. In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertising broker a user s eye movement data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specified message displayed on a virtual world avatar or the like.

Operation depicts sending to at least one entity at least one measure of the user s memory relating to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to at least one of an advertiser an advertising broker or a merchant at least one measure of a user s memory relating to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute.

In one embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to a merchant a user s memory data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specified quiz on a website. In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertiser a user s memory data obtained during an interaction between the user and an object associated with an brand within a computer game or virtual world e.g. a Rolex watch or a Tiffany s bracelet . In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertising broker a user s memory data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specified message displayed on a website banner or the like.

Operation depicts sending to at least one entity at least one measure of the user s visual field relating to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to at least one of an advertiser an advertising broker or a merchant at least one measure of a user s visual field relating to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute.

In one embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to a merchant a user s visual field data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertisement on a website. In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertiser a user s visual field data obtained during an interaction between the user and an object associated with an brand within a computer game or virtual world e.g. a Tony Hawk brand t shirt or a Body Glove brand surf board . In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertising broker a user s visual field data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specified message displayed on a website banner or the like.

Operation depicts sending to at least one entity at least one measure of the user s face pattern relating to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. For example a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to at least one of an advertiser an advertising broker or a merchant at least one measure of a user s face pattern relating to the at least one advertiser specified attribute as the at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute.

In one embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to a merchant a user s face pattern data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specified image on a website. In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertiser a user s face pattern data obtained during an interaction between the user and an object associated with an brand within a computer game or virtual world e.g. an Apple brand computer or a Chevrolet brand automobile . In another embodiment a user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or user health test function output routing module may send to an advertising broker a user s face pattern data obtained during an interaction between the user and an advertiser specified musical clip played on a website or the like.

Operation depicts receiving an indication of interest from at least one entity in at least a portion of the at least one output of the at least one user health test function. For example a user a server and or a user health test function output routing module may receive an indication of interest from at least one entity in at least a portion of the at least one user health test function ouput . The indication of interest may be received from for example advertiser advertising broker advertising agency and or merchant or the like. In one embodiment the indication of interest may be an offer to purchase a portion or all of the available user health test function output . In another embodiment the indication of interest may be a request from an entity to server and or user health test function unit for a subscription to future user health test function ouput . For example user server and or user health test function assignment module may receive a request for access to at least one user health test function output such as a number of data samples a data over a period of time e.g. 5 days 3 months a year or the like.

Operation depicts receiving a request from the at least one entity for a subscription to at least a portion of the at least one output of the at least one user health test function. For example a user a server and or a user health test function assignment module may receive an order for a subscription to at least a portion of the at least one user health test function ouput from at least one entity . The request for a subscription may be received from for example advertiser advertising broker advertising agency and or merchant or the like. In one embodiment the subscription may be an offer to purchase a portion or all of the available user health test function output for a period of weeks months or years. In another embodiment the request for a subscription may be a request from an entity to server and or user health test function unit for a subscription to all future user health test function ouput from one or more users. In another embodiment an advertising host website including server may receive a request from a merchant to obtain access to for example user health test function output from an eye movement or pupil movement test module for a six week period of time for example during a certain advertising campaign on the host website.

Operation depicts receiving an indication of interest from at least one of an advertiser an advertising broker an advertising seller a marketer a merchant or a host of advertising as the at least one entity. For example a user a server and or a user health test function output routing module may receive an indication of interest from at least one of an advertiser an advertising broker an advertising agency an advertising seller a marketer a merchant a host of advertising or the like as the at least one entity. In one embodiment the indication of interest may be an offer to purchase a portion or all of the available user health test function output from an internet advertiser such as WPP Group Publicis and Interpublic Group. In another embodiment the indication of interest may be a request to server and or user health test function unit for a subscription to future user health test function ouput from an advertising broker such as a company that can match an advertiser to a web page hosting service to obtain an indication of interest in the user health test function output . In another embodiment an indication of interest may be received from for example an advertising seller such as Google and Microsoft. In another embodiment an indication of interest may be received from for example a marketer such as an advertising strategy services company or the like. In another embodiment an indication of interest in user health test function ouput may be received from for example a host of advertising such as a television network a radio station an internet portal or search engine or the like.

Operation depicts receiving an indication of interest from a researcher as the at least one entity. For example a user a server and or a user health test function assignment module may receive an indication of interest in at least a portion of the at least one user health test function ouput from at least one researcher as the at least one entity . The indication of interest may be a request for a subscription received from for example a marketing researcher a university researcher a government researcher or the like.

Operation depicts receiving an indication of interest from at least one of an online game company an internet search company a virtual world company an online product vendor or a website host as the at least one entity. For example a user a server and or a user health test function output routing module may receive an indication of interest from at least one of an online game company an internet search company a virtual world company an online product vendor a website host or the like as the at least one entity. In one embodiment the indication of interest may be an offer to purchase a portion or all of the available user health test function output from an online game company such as Blizzard Entertainment Sony Online Entertainment or the like. In another embodiment the indication of interest may be a request to user server and or user health test function unit for a subscription to future user health test function ouput from an internet search company such as Google Microsoft Yahoo or the like to obtain an indication of interest in the user health test function output . In another embodiment an indication of interest may be received from for example a virtual world company such as Linden Lab Maxis Makena Technologies or the like. In another embodiment an indication of interest may be received from for example an online product vendor such as Apple s iTunes Netflix Alienware Valve Corporation s Steam software delivery service or the like. In another embodiment an indication of interest in user health test function ouput may be received from for example a website host such as Web.com HostMonster BlueHost or the like to obtain an indication of interest in at least a portion of the at least one output of the at least one user health test function.

Operation depicts receiving an indication of interest from a law enforcement entity as the at least one entity. For example a user a server and or a user health test function assignment module may receive an indication of interest in at least a portion of the at least one user health test function ouput from at least one law enforcement entity as the at least one entity . The indication of interest may be for example a request for a subscription to user health test function output for a period of time received from for example the Federal Bureau of Investigation Central Intelligence Agency Department of Homeland Security Interpol state or local police or the like.

Operation depicts receiving an indication of interest from a teammate as the at least one entity. For example a user a server and or a user health test function routing module may receive an indication of interest in at least a portion of the at least one user health test function ouput from at least one law enforcement entity as the at least one entity . The indication of interest may be for example a request for a specific user health test function output such as a measure of the alertness of user received from for example a teammate in an online game such as Counterstrike Halo3 World of Warcraft.

Operation depicts receiving an indication of interest in at least one statistical characteristic of the at least a portion of the at least one output of the at least one user health test function. For example a user a server and or a user health test function routing module may receive an indication of interest in at least one statistical characteristic of the at least a portion of at least one user health test function ouput . For example a user may receive a request for average user pointing device manipulation data or average user eye movement data with respect to one or more elements of an entity s website such as MySpace.com or Facebook.com one or more elements in a virtual world and or one more elements in an computerized game world.

Operation depicts receiving an indication of interest in anonymized output of the at least a portion of the at least one output of the at least one user health test function. For example a user a server and or a user health test function routing module may receive an indication of interest in anonymized user health test function ouput . For example an advertiser such as Google or Nielsen Media Research may receive a request for anonymized data from an eye movement or pupil movement test module operative with respect to a user s interaction with one or more elements of an entity s television program one or more elements in a virtual world and or one more elements in an computerized game world. In another embodiment a user device user health test function unit user health test function assignment module and or server may receive an indication of interest in aggregated anonymous user face pattern test function data e.g. face pattern test module output or anonymized user alertness data e.g. alertness or attention test module output with respect to a user s interaction with one or more elements of a virtual world segment or an online news website. Anonymization of user health data and or user health test function output may be accomplished through various methods known in the art including data coding k anonymization de association pseudonymization or the like. User health test function unit server device and or user health test function output routing module may perform the anonymization function.

Operation depicts receiving compensation for access to the at least one output of the at least one user health test function. For example a user a server and or a user health test function routing module may receive a payment in exchange for access to user health test function ouput . For example an advertising server operated by a company such as Google or Yahoo may receive payment in exchange for anonymized data from an eye movement or pupil movement test module operative with respect to a user s interaction with one or more elements of an entity s website one or more elements in a virtual world and or one more elements in an computerized game world. In one embodiment payment may be based on a quantity of user health test function output accessed or payment may be set at a rate per unit time during which user health test function output is accessed by entity . In another embodiment a user a server and or a user health test function routing module may receive a qualification for insurance coverage from an insurance company as the entity for example based on a time period of access to user health test function output . Other kinds of compensation may include subscription fees for online games or virtual world participation virtual currency or web hosting services.

Operation depicts receiving at least one of a payment or a micropayment for access to the at least one output of the at least one user health test function. For example a user a server and or a user health test function routing module may receive a credit payment or a micropayment in exchange for access to user health test function ouput . For example an advertising server operated by a company such as Google or Microsoft may receive a micropayment in exchange for user health test function output from an individual relating to a specific interaction or for user health test function output derived from respective interactions between a plurality of users and a specific advertiser specified attribute within an application such as an in game advertisement or the like. In another embodiment a user a server and or a user health test function routing module may receive a per access micropayment from an entity based on an access schedule permitting the entity to sample whatever quantity of user health test function output that is available at any given time.

The computing device includes computer executable instructions that when executed on the computing device cause the computing device to a specify at least one of a plurality of user health test functions responsive to an interaction between a user and at least one advertiser specified attribute and b transmit at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute. As referenced above and as shown in in some examples the computing device may optionally be contained in whole or in part within the device .

In then the system includes at least one computing device e.g. and or . The computer executable instructions may be executed on one or more of the at least one computing device. For example the computing device may implement the computer executable instructions and output a result to and or receive data from the computing device . Since the computing device may be wholly or partially contained within the computing device the device also may be said to execute some or all of the computer executable instructions in order to be caused to perform or implement for example various ones of the techniques described herein or other techniques.

The device may include for example a portable computing device workstation or desktop computing device. In another example embodiment the computing device is operable to communicate with the device associated with the user to receive information about the input from the user for performing data access and data processing and transmitting at least one output of the at least one user health test function related to the at least one advertiser specified attribute.

Although a user is shown described herein as a single illustrated figure those skilled in the art will appreciate that a user may be representative of a human user a robotic user e.g. computational entity and or substantially any combination thereof e.g. a user may be assisted by one or more robotic agents . In addition a user as set forth herein although shown as a single entity may in fact be composed of two or more entities. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in general the same may be said of sender and or other entity oriented terms as such terms are used herein.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the herein described components e.g. steps devices and objects and the discussion accompanying them are used as examples for the sake of conceptual clarity and that various configuration modifications are within the skill of those in the art. Consequently as used herein the specific exemplars set forth and the accompanying discussion are intended to be representative of their more general classes. In general use of any specific exemplar herein is also intended to be representative of its class and the non inclusion of such specific components e.g. steps devices and objects herein should not be taken as indicating that limitation is desired.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing specific exemplary processes and or devices and or technologies are representative of more general processes and or devices and or technologies taught elsewhere herein such as in the claims filed herewith and or elsewhere in the present application.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in any Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference to the extent not inconsistent herewith.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations are not expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

With respect to the appended claims those skilled in the art will appreciate that recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. With respect to context even terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

