---

title: Method and system for authentication of electronic communications
abstract: A method and system to authenticate electronic communications, such as email. A trusted third party records information of each of sender's communications, such as date, time and recipients. Recipients are allowed to verify if their incoming messages match the data of their senders' outgoing communications. Mismatches can be used to filter out fake messages assuming stolen identities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07917757&OS=07917757&RS=07917757
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07917757
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070209
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 772 063 filed on Feb. 9 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 772 301 filed on Feb. 9 2006 the contents of both of which are incorporated by reference herein. The present application may be related to U.S. Ser. No. 11 704 730 filed on even date herewith entitled Reputation System for Web Pages and Online Entities also incorporated by reference in the present application.

This invention was made in part with government support under a MICS Lab CFD Grid and Other AMD grant awarded by the Office of Science of the DOE. The U.S. Government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to electronic communications. In particular it relates to a method and system for authentication of electronic communications.

Recently emails from fake senders have multiplied immensely causing problems of trustworthiness of electronic communications as well as cluttering inboxes around the world costing valuable time to readers as well as consuming precious infrastructure resources such as bandwidth.

Spam or electronic communications unwanted by recipients is a growing problem to the point that many users receive more spam than desirable email. The problem is even driving pushes for new legislation. Because email travels along global communication networks though solutions at the national level are unlikely to succeed. Although anti spam software exists spammers are continually modifying the text of their messages in an evolutionary race to beat anti spam software. Inevitably anti spam software that relies on text filtering is one step behind spam.

Digital email signatures see e.g. U.S. Pub. App. 2002 0046250 are known. However they serve the sender not the recipient of a message. U.S. Pub. App. 2003 0028767 discloses a method for enabling email recipients to authenticate an email sender without opening the email.

U.S. Pub. App. 2003 0212791 and U.S. Pub. App. 2004 0024823 disclose methods and systems for authorizing electronic mail where information on the sender is compared with a list of authorized senders. U.S. Pub. App. 2002 0059525 discloses a method for authentication of email content. However such method does not prevent unauthorized use of an email address as sender. Indeed such method compounds the problem making for the receipt of duplicate e documents from fake as well as true senders.

Content verification methods are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 327 656 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 640 301. Those methods require the content of certified messages to be retained.

The Yahoo email authentication system DomainKeys allows for verification of the DNS domain of an email sender and the integrity of each email sent.

The present disclosure addresses the problem of fake email sender addresses which can fool recipients into delivering trusted information to an unintended recipient or communicate false information among other unwanted consequences. It also eliminates the widespread problem of bounced messages cluttering the mailbox of a sender that never sent them. It solves this problem by authenticating electronic messages such that only emails sent by the alleged sender are delivered to recipients.

According to a first embodiment an authentication method for electronic mail is provided comprising providing a sender of electronic mail with an authenticating code when the sender sends an electronic mail communication to a recipient sending a message from the sender to a third party authentication entity sending information about the electronic mail communication from the recipient to the third party authentication entity comparing the message sent from the sender to the third party authentication entity with the information about the electronic mail communication from the recipient to the third party authentication entity and in case result of the comparison authenticates the sender delivering the electronic mail communication to the recipient.

According to a second embodiment a method for authenticating electronic mail is disclosed comprising upon sending an electronic mail communication from a sender to a recipient and before delivering the electronic mail communication to the recipient sending a challenge from the recipient to the sender requesting the sender to authenticate the electronic mail communication and upon authentication by the sender of the electronic mail communication delivering the electronic mail communication to the recipient.

According to a third embodiment a method for authenticating electronic mail is disclosed comprising sending an electronic mail communication from a sender to a recipient the electronic mail communication being encrypted with a private key posting a public key in a publicly accessible server the public key including code signifying authenticity of the sender comparing the private key with the public key and delivering the electronic mail communication to the recipient if there is a match between the private key and the public key.

Additional embodiments of the present disclosure are present throughout the specification and claims of the present application.

In summary a system to authenticate electronic communications such as email is provided. The system works by recording date time and recipients of each sender s communications either locally at the sender s machine or utilizing a trusted third party or in a distributed way through a network and allowing recipients to automatically verify that their incoming messages match the data of their sender s outgoing communications. Mismatches are used to filter out fake messages assuming stolen identities.

The method and system of the present disclosure are different from digital email signature systems in that differently from the prior art they serve the recipient not the sender of a message. By virtue of the Certifier s making the certification software freely available and because the certification can also be done manually recipients can require certification of all messages before allowing messages into their inbox. This difference is critical and provides an incentive for rapid adoption of the technology. In contrast previous systems have been so unsuccessful that not even the leading provider of digital signatures itself Verisign Inc. digitally signs its electronic communications. Furthermore the system and method according to the present disclosure certify individual communications at particular dates times and between particular senders and receivers avoiding the pitfalls of digital signature thefts.

The system according to the present disclosure combines the best features of automated certification requiring no action on the part of the users with the advantages of a system available to all users regardless of technical expertise previous experience or buying power.

Because the encryption occurs between sender and Certifier and between Certifier and recipient the recipient does not need to have previous access to any information about the sender such as a key thus enabling reception of messages from unknown senders in contrast to some previous methods e.g. U.S. Pub. App. 2003 0028767 . Unlike for example the methods in U.S. Pub. App. 2003 0212791 or U.S. Pub. App. 2004 0024823 the present disclosure does not require any list of authorized senders.

The present disclosure is also different from content verification methods e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 327 656 or U.S. Pat. No. 6 640 301 because among other things it does not require the Certifier to retain the content of certified messages a restriction that made previous methods impractical for inexpensive mass usage. The present disclosure only requires retention of date time and a relatively short unique identifying code and furthermore does not require storage beyond the maximum delay in electronic communications.

The present disclosure also differs from DomainKeys in that the sender s email address is verified as opposed to simply the DNS domain. This has important security applications not every sender at an institution or domain will have the same authority or powers spam users may want to receive email from friends at Yahoo but not from spammers using Yahoo accounts etc.

A further advantage of the method and system of the present disclosure is that email messages are not sent to a third party allowing the safeguarding of private information.

In the present disclosure the words email email message and electronic message are used to signify any kind of document transmitted through electronic or optical means. The certifier third party authentication entity or authentication authority is used to signify a third party to a sender S or a receiver R of a communication. The third party stores information about emails sent for the purpose of authentication.

According to an embodiment of the present disclosure shown in the sender S gets a secret authenticating code once from an authentication entity or authority AA e.g. a third party server sent to the sender s email address as shown by box S of . The sender s certification software then sends an email or other message M to the authentication authority server every time sender S sends an email communication E to recipient R. See step S in and arrow in . This email or message M contains the secret code that identifies the sender S together with information that identifies the email E e.g. number of bytes subject recipient date time . The email or message M can be encrypted with standard encryption methods. The secret code identifying sender S can be a password stored in the sender s computer or account in a standard manner as shown in . The secret code can be encrypted to prevent access by spyware or malware. For the purposes of the present description the combination of secret code and email identifying information will be called unique message identifier UMI . The recipient R then sends to the third party authentication entity or authority AA e.g. pings the third party authentication authority AA information identifying the message E and receives confirmation or denial from AA that E was sent by sender S. See steps S S of and arrows in . The recipient R only accepts delivery of messages authenticated by authentication authority AA. The pinging operation recipient R authentication authority AA is performed by way of verification software embedded in the recipient s email application. The information sent by the recipient R to the authentication authority AA is checked against a database in the authentication authority AA. In other words was a message with UMI sent to recipient R by sender S as evidenced by the records of AA 

If the UMIs senders and recipients match the message is delivered to the recipient s inbox. See steps S S of and box of . If not the message is put in a Spam folder or discarded depending on the recipient s pre selected option. See steps S S of and box of . If the sender S is not registered with the certifier AA the sender S receives an electronic message allowing him her to confirm the authenticity of the message manually. For example the sender can receive a message requesting him to reply to it or to click a button link saying YES this is a legitimate email. If desired this step can include a process to verify the sender as a human such as a challenge response test commonly known as captcha requesting the sender to type characters he she sees on his her screen. The sender S will also be invited to download a copy of the certification software to avoid the need for future manual verifications. If the authenticity is confirmed the message will be delivered to the inbox of recipient R.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure authentication must arrive within a pre specified period of time from the time of original mailing.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure unauthenticated email can be filtered by providing a first kind of tag for authenticated email and a second kind of tag for unauthenticated email or just a single tag for unauthenticated emails the tag being for example provided on the header line subject line or into the body of the message itself and then providing a filtering application running on the email client or the email server to remove emails with unauthorized tags. See for example tag shown in . This embodiment facilitates integration with existing email applications which allow for rules to filter messages based on email contents.

According to a further aspect already discussed above registration with the third party authentication authority AA Certifier provides the submission of information that is included in an email message to the sender seeking registration registrant ensuring that only registrants with access to an email address can certify emails that appear to come from that email address.

According to yet another aspect the Certifier s records or emails sent out can be used to verify whether bounced emails were indeed sent by the legitimate owner of the email address claimed to originate them before bouncing them back to the alleged sender for the purpose of eliminating illegitimate bounced emails avoiding one source of clutter in today s email inboxes caused by several mass mailing worms. This can be done by comparing the incoming bounced message with a record of sent messages and only delivering a bounced message to the inbox if there is a match.

In some embodiments the message from sender to the authentication authority can take place after the recipient has requested such authentication from the sender. In general though greater efficiency can be accomplished by not requiring that the receiver asks the sender for authentication.

According to another embodiment of the present disclosure also shown in the receiver s software or hardware replies to each incoming email asking the sender to authenticate that they sent the message e.g. Did you send a message with X bytes subject S to recipient R on date D and time T . See steps S S in . The sender s software replies authenticating any email that it did send step S usually without manual intervention. If the sender does not have such authenticating software which maintains records of emails sent intercepts authentication emails and responds to them appropriately the sender can authenticate the email by responding manually to the authentication challenge. The receiver will only accept authenticated messages as shown in step S. The present embodiment and the authentication authority embodiment serve the same purpose. They both have the sender keep track of what it sent and have the receiver verify that before accepting a message. Note that authentication is not a one time process which could lead to a white listed email address being hi jacked by others but rather an ongoing process that recurs with each communication sent by the sender.

In some embodiments authentication can be accompanied by information identifying the sender such as IP address so that future communications coming from the same IP address for example are accepted even in the absence of re authentication. These embodiments however are liable to faking of IP addresses therefore re authentication with each email address is preferable.

In some embodiments the process of authentication challenge and response is carried out not by emails but rather by electronic communications operating on other ports. In some embodiments the recipient challenges the sender by requesting that the sender post a message to a particular IP address and the sender responds by posting a message corresponding to authentication or denial to the requested IP address. In some embodiments this is done by the recipient sending a randomly selected URL at a trusted third party to the sender the sender accessing such URL the URL recording that it has been visited by the sender and the recipient confirming such visit.

According to yet another embodiment of the present disclosure also shown in the sender S encrypts messages with a private key S posts a public key in a publicly accessible server S and includes a code to the effect of AUTHENTIC . This posting is performed once at the beginning. Each sender will have a unique code or set of codes that identifies a message sent by that sender as authentic. The public key allows a recipient to process a message that claims to be from a sender to decrypt it and conclude whether it is authentic or not by looking for a given string e.g. AUTHENTIC. If the sender is spoofed i.e. if the email appears to be sent by the sender but actually it is not public and private keys will not coincide or match and the message will be garbled and unreadable S . The recipient R will only allow messages that include AUTHENTIC code into the inbox S . The private key is kept secret by the sender and used to encode the message e.g. encode AUTHENTIC . The public key is used to decode the message. The sender field is not encoded as this is needed to lookup the public key in a database of public keys or in a server associated with the sender. The present embodiment and the authentication authority embodiment serve the same purpose. The latter uses a secret code known only to the sender to authenticate messages in a way that any recipient can check.

According to a further embodiment a plug in is provided for email clients. The person skilled in the art will understand that a plug in is a computer program that interacts with an application in this case the email client to provide a certain function. Upon receipt of each email the plug in pings the alleged sender s server with a code uniquely identifying the email received. For example the code can comprise some aspect of the text plus the recipient plus date and time. The server if provided with authentication software checks the code from the ping with a database of sent emails and returns a YES NO answer. The email client plugin then displays AUTHENTICATED BY SERVER X if it received a YES and does not show the message at all or displays SPOOF or a similar message if it receives no answer from the server for example if the sender does not have authentication software .

A spoofer Y could authenticate its messages but they would say AUTHENTICATED BY SERVER Y rather than BY SERVER X so the user would know that the email did not come from X and the email client could disallow authentication by servers that do not correspond with the domain of the server altogether. The same could be implemented by the receiving server instead of the client. For example an email coming from JohnDoe ibm.com would trigger an authentication request to authentication.ibm.com.

Further embodiments of the present disclosure are also possible where the teachings of the present disclosure are combined with the teachings of U.S. Ser. No. 11 704 730 filed on even date herewith entitled Reputation System for Web Pages and Online Entities incorporated by reference in the present application.

While several illustrative embodiments of the invention have been shown and described numerous variations and alternative embodiments will occur to those skilled in the art. Such variations and alternative embodiments are contemplated and can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

