---

title: Video chapter access and license renewal
abstract: Methods, systems, and programs products for license renewal and content chapter access. In one aspect, a method includes receiving a gesture input incident on a touch-sensitive surface to renew a content license, where the license identifies the content and a first period of time during which the content can be accessed. In another aspect, a method includes receiving a gesture input incident on a touch-sensitive surface. In response to the gesture input, a number of chapter indicators for content are presented, each chapter indicator including a thumbnail image and associated with a an offset in the content. In response to a second gesture input, the content from the selected chapter indicator's respective offset is played.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07956848&OS=07956848&RS=07956848
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 07956848
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070904
---
Typical graphical user interfaces for video playback are difficult to use when it comes to accessing video chapters often providing users with few clues as to what content lies in a given chapter. User interfaces for accessing or renewing licenses governing the use of videos commonly lack suitable integration with video playback tools. Short comings with user interfaces for video playback and license renewal are especially apparent on devices having small displays such as portable media players and smart phones.

In general one or more aspects of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in one or more methods that include receiving gesture input incident on a device s touch sensitive display to renew a content license where the license identifies the content and a first period of time during which the content can be accessed. A license renewal request is sent from the device over one or more wireless networks. A license renewal response is received by the device for the request over the one or more wireless networks. The license is renewed based on the renewal response such that the content can be accessed during a second period of time. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The device is a portable media player a mobile phone a portable electronic game device or a portable computer. A user is provided advance notification of when the license will expire. The advance notification is provided at a time a user attempts to access or is accessing the content. The license renewal request identifies the content and the license or an account. A format of the content is one of MJPEG CCIR 601 MPEG 4 MPEG 2 MPEG 1 H.261 H.262 H.263 or H.264. The content is downloaded to the device over the one or more wireless networks. A copy of the content is stored on the device. The content is removed from the device or disabling the content when the license expires.

In general one or more aspects of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in one or more methods that include receiving a first gesture input incident on a display of a touch sensitive display. In response to the first gesture input a number of chapter indicators for content are presented each chapter indicator including a thumbnail image and associated with a an offset in the content. A second gesture input incident on the display is received to select a chapter indicator from the number of chapter indicators. In response to the second gesture input the content from the selected chapter indicator s respective offset is played. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. Presenting the list of chapter indicators includes transitioning a presentation of the content to a presentation of the number of chapter indicators. The transition is a flip over animated transition. The first gesture input is incident on an area of the display in which the content is presented. The content is paused in response to the first gesture. The chapter indicators are presented over the content presentation. A control panel is presented on the display configured to allow a user to control the content playback and view the chapter indicators. Each chapter indicator is associated with a name and where the name is presented with an image. Playing the content comprises scaling the selected chapter s respective image and playing the content in a display region occupied by the scaled image. Playing the content comprises in response to the second gesture input scrubbing playback of the content relative to the selected chapter indicator s respective offset. The playback is presented in a thumbnail image of the selected chapter indicator. The content is processed to create the chapter indicators.

In general one or more aspects of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in one or more methods that include an apparatus comprising a touch sensitive display and a processor coupled to the touch sensitive display and configurable for displaying content on the touch sensitive display. An interface is coupled to the processor and configurable for a receiving a first gesture input incident on a display of a touch sensitive display b in response to the first gesture input presenting a number of chapter indicators for content each chapter indicator including a thumbnail image and associated with a an offset in the content c receiving a second gesture input incident on the display to select a chapter indicator from the number of chapter indicators and d in response to the second gesture input playing the content from the selected chapter indicator s respective offset.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. Presenting the list of chapter indicators includes transitioning a presentation of the content to a presentation of the number of chapter indicators.

Particular implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Video chapters can be accessed in a convenient fashion by interacting with a playing video or with a control panel. A playing video can be flipped over to reveal the video s chapters. Selection of a video chapter can cause the video chapter s thumbnail to zoom out and play the video. For mobile devices with multi touch sensitive displays the video chapter indicators can include the ability to time scrub through the chapter for example by gesturing on the chapter thumbnail. A license renewal system keeps track of video licenses and informs users when a license needs to be renewed. Videos can be automatically deleted from mobile devices when their license has expired. Gesture input can easily guide the selection of video chapters and license renewal.

The details of one or more implementations of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display . The touch sensitive display can implement liquid crystal display LCD technology light emitting polymer display LPD technology or some other display technology. The touch sensitive display can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user.

In some implementations the touch sensitive display can comprise a multi touch sensitive display . A multi touch sensitive display can for example process multiple simultaneous touch points including processing data related to the pressure degree and or position of each touch point. Such processing facilitates gestures and interactions with multiple fingers chording and other interactions. Other touch sensitive display technologies can also be used e.g. a display in which contact is made using a stylus or other pointing device. Some examples of multi touch sensitive display technology are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 846 6 570 557 6 677 932 and 6 888 536 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user. In some implementations the graphical user interface can include one or more display objects . In the example shown the display objects are graphic representations of system objects. Some examples of system objects include device functions applications windows files alerts events or other identifiable system objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a telephony device as indicated by a phone object an e mail device as indicated by the e mail object a network data communication device as indicated by the Web object a Wi Fi base station device not shown and a media processing device as indicated by the media player object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the phone object the e mail object the Web object and the media player object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement network distribution functionality. For example the functionality can enable the user to take the mobile device and provide access to its associated network while traveling. In particular the mobile device can extend Internet access e.g. Wi Fi to other wireless devices in the vicinity. For example mobile device can be configured as a base station for one or more devices. As such mobile device can grant or deny network access to other wireless devices.

In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality. For example in response to a user touching the phone object the graphical user interface of the touch sensitive display may present display objects related to various phone functions likewise touching of the email object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various e mail functions touching the Web object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various Web surfing functions and touching the media player object may cause the graphical user interface to present display objects related to various media processing functions.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface environment or state of can be restored by pressing a button located near the bottom of the mobile device . In some implementations each corresponding device functionality may have corresponding home display objects displayed on the touch sensitive display and the graphical user interface environment of can be restored by pressing the home display object.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include additional display objects such as a short messaging service SMS object a calendar object a photos object a camera object a calculator object a stocks object a weather object a maps object a notes object a clock object an address book object and a settings object . Touching the SMS display object can for example invoke an SMS messaging environment and supporting functionality likewise each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . For example if the device is functioning as a base station for other devices one or more connection objects may appear in the graphical user interface to indicate the connection. In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user e.g. a user may specify which display objects are displayed and or may download additional applications or other software that provides other functionalities and corresponding display objects.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example a speaker and a microphone can be included to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations an up down button for volume control of the speaker and the microphone can be included. The mobile device can also include an on off button for a ring indicator of incoming phone calls. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch sensitive display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch sensitive display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations an ambient light sensor can be utilized to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch sensitive display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device as indicated by the directional arrow . Accordingly display objects and or media can be presented according to a detected orientation e.g. portrait or landscape. In some implementations the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning systems e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through an interface e.g. port device to provide access to location based services.

In some implementations a port device e.g. a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection can be included. The port device can for example be utilized to establish a wired connection to other computing devices such as other communication devices network access devices a personal computer a printer a display screen or other processing devices capable of receiving and or transmitting data. In some implementations the port device allows the mobile device to synchronize with a host device using one or more protocols such as for example the TCP IP HTTP UDP and any other known protocol. In some implementations a TCP IP over USB protocol can be used as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 945 904 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Multiplexed Data Stream Protocol which provisional patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device . Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi 3G code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE etc.

In some implementations the mobile device includes a touch sensitive display which can be sensitive to haptic and or tactile contact with a user. In some implementations the mobile device can display one or more graphical user interfaces on the touch sensitive display for providing the user access to various system objects and for conveying information to the user.

In some implementations the mobile device can implement multiple device functionalities such as a music processing device as indicated by the music player object a video processing device as indicated by the video player object a digital photo album device as indicated by the photos object and a network data communication device for online shopping as indicated by the store object . In some implementations particular display objects e.g. the music player object the video player object the photos object and store object can be displayed in a menu bar . In some implementations device functionalities can be accessed from a top level graphical user interface such as the graphical user interface illustrated in . Touching one of the objects or can for example invoke corresponding functionality.

In some implementations the top level graphical user interface of mobile device can include additional display objects such as the Web object the calendar object the address book object the clock object the calculator object and the settings object described above with reference to mobile device of . In some implementations the top level graphical user interface can include other display objects such as a Web video object that provides functionality for uploading and playing videos on the Web. Each selection of a display object and can invoke a corresponding object environment and functionality.

Additional and or different display objects can also be displayed in the graphical user interface of . In some implementations the display objects can be configured by a user. In some implementations upon invocation of device functionality the graphical user interface of the mobile device changes or is augmented or replaced with another user interface or user interface elements to facilitate user access to particular functions associated with the corresponding device functionality.

In some implementations the mobile device can include one or more input output I O devices and a volume control device sensor devices and wireless communication subsystems and and a port device or some other wired port connection described above with reference to mobile device of .

The mobile devices and can also establish communications by other means. For example the wireless device can communicate with other wireless devices e.g. other mobile devices or cell phones etc. over the wireless network . Likewise the mobile devices and can establish peer to peer communications e.g. a personal area network by use of one or more communication subsystems such as the Bluetooth communication devices shown in . Other communication protocols and topologies can also be implemented.

The mobile device or can for example communicate with one or more services and over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example a navigation service can provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device or . A user of the mobile device can invoke a map functionality e.g. by pressing the maps object on the top level graphical user interface shown in and can request and receive a map for a particular location.

A messaging service can for example provide e mail and or other messaging services. A media service can for example provide access to media files such as song files audio books movie files video clips and other media data. In some implementations separate audio and video services not shown can provide access to the respective types of media files. A syncing service can for example perform syncing services e.g. sync files . An activation service can for example perform an activation process for activating the mobile device or . Other services can also be provided including a software update service that automatically determines whether software updates exist for software on the mobile device or then downloads the software updates to the mobile device or where the software updates can be manually or automatically unpacked and or installed.

The mobile device or can also access other data and content over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content publishers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device or . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user touching the Web object .

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a motion sensor a light sensor and a proximity sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation lighting and proximity functions described with respect to . Other sensors can also be connected to the peripherals interface such as a positioning system e.g. GPS receiver a temperature sensor a biometric sensor or other sensing device to facilitate related functionalities.

A camera subsystem and an optical sensor e.g. a charged coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor can be utilized to facilitate camera functions such as recording photographs and video clips.

Communication functions can be facilitated through one or more wireless communication subsystems which can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and or optical e.g. infrared receivers and transmitters. The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem can depend on the communication network s over which the mobile device or is intended to operate. For example a mobile device or may include communication subsystems designed to operate over a GSM network a GPRS network an EDGE network a Wi Fi or WiMax network and a Bluetooth network. In particular the wireless communication subsystems may include hosting protocols such that the device or may be configured as a base station for other wireless devices.

An audio subsystem can be coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition voice replication digital recording and telephony functions.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone .

In one implementation a pressing of the button for a first duration may disengage a lock of the touch screen and a pressing of the button for a second duration that is longer than the first duration may turn power to the mobile device or on or off. The user may be able to customize a functionality of one or more of the buttons. The touch screen can for example also be used to implement virtual or soft buttons and or a keyboard.

In some implementations the mobile device or can present recorded audio and or video files such as MP3 AAC and MPEG files. In some implementations the mobile device or can include the functionality of an MP3 player such as an iPod . The mobile device or may therefore include a 36 pin connector that is compatible with the iPod. Other input output and control devices can also be used.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel as described in reference to .

The memory may also store communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices one or more computers and or one or more servers. The memory may include graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing sensor processing instructions to facilitate sensor related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions electronic messaging instructions to facilitate electronic messaging related processes and functions web browsing instructions to facilitate web browsing related processes and functions media processing instructions to facilitate media processing related processes and functions GPS Navigation instructions to facilitate GPS and navigation related processes and instructions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and or other software instructions to facilitate other processes and functions e.g. security processes and functions as described in reference to . The memory may also store other software instructions not shown such as web video instructions to facilitate web video related processes and functions and or web shopping instructions to facilitate web shopping related processes and functions. In some implementations the media processing instructions are divided into audio processing instructions and video processing instructions to facilitate audio processing related processes and functions and video processing related processes and functions respectively. An activation record and International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI or similar hardware identifier can also be stored in memory .

Each of the above identified instructions and applications can correspond to a set of instructions for performing one or more functions described above. These instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs procedures or modules. The memory can include additional instructions or fewer instructions. Furthermore various functions of the mobile device or may be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

The OS kernel manages the resources of the mobile device or and allows other programs to run and use these resources. Some examples of resources include a processor memory and I O. For example the kernel can determine which running processes should be allocated to a processor processors or processor cores allocates memory to the processes and allocates requests from applications and remote services to perform I O operations. In some implementations the kernel provides methods for synchronization and inter process communications with other devices.

In some implementations the kernel can be stored in non volatile memory of the mobile device or . When the mobile device or is turned on a boot loader starts executing the kernel in supervisor mode. The kernel then initializes itself and starts one or more processes for the mobile device or including a security process for remote access management as described in reference to .

The library system provides various services applications running in the application layer . Such services can include audio services video services database services image processing services graphics services etc.

The application framework provides an object oriented application environment including classes and Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by developers to build applications using well known programming languages e.g. Objective C Java .

The applications layer is where various applications exist in the software stack . Developers can use the APIs and environment provided by the application framework to build applications such as the applications represented by the display objects shown in e.g. email media player Web browser phone music player video player photos and store .

In the example shown the access device includes device drivers a mobile services daemon a mobile services API and one or more mobile service applications . The device drivers are responsible for implementing the transport layer protocol such as TCP IP over USB. The mobile services daemon listens e.g. continuously to the communications channel for activity and manages the transmission of commands and data over the communication channel . The mobile services API provides a set of functions procedures variables and data structures for supporting requests for services made by the mobile services application . The mobile services application can be a client program running on the access device which provides one or more user interfaces for allowing a user to interact with a remote service e.g. activation service over a network e.g. the Internet wireless network peer to peer network optical network Ethernet intranet . In some implementations a device activation process can be used as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 767 447 filed Jun. 22 2007 for Device Activation and Access which patent application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The application can allow a user to set preferences download or update files of content or software search databases store user data select services browse content perform financial transactions or engage in any other online service or function. An example of a mobile services application is the iTunes client which is publicly available from Apple Inc. Cupertino Calif. . An example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPod product developed by Apple Inc. Another example of a mobile device that uses the iTunes client is the iPhone product developed by Apple Inc.

In an example operational mode a user connects the mobile device to the access device using for example a USB cable. In other implementations the mobile device and access device include wireless transceivers for establishing a wireless link e.g. Wi Fi . The drivers and kernel detect the connection and alert the security process and mobile services daemon of the connections status. Once the connection is established certain non sensitive information can be passed from the mobile device to the access device e.g. name disk size activation state to assist in establishing a secure communication session.

In some implementations the security process establishes a secure communication session e.g. encrypted SSL session with the access device by implementing a secure network protocol. For example if using SSL protocol the mobile device and access device will negotiate a cipher suite to be used during data transfer establish and share a session key and authenticate the access device to the mobile device . In some implementations if the mobile device is password protected the security process will not establish a session and optionally alert the user of the reason for failure.

Once a secure session is successfully established the mobile device and the access device can exchange sensitive information e.g. passwords personal information and remote access to the mobile device can be granted to one or more services e.g. navigation service messaging service media service syncing service activation service . In some implementations the mobile services daemon multiplexes commands and data for transmission over the communication channel . This multiplexing allows several remote services to have access to the mobile device in a single session without the need to start a new session or handshaking for each service requesting access to the mobile device .

A user can provide a gesture input which can be incident or near on the display to indicate that they want to bring up a control panel. The gesture input which can be incident on the display can be a tap e.g. with a finger or a stylus a double tap a tap and a slide a squeeze or press a pulling apart of two fingers or some other gesture. In response to the gesture a control panel can be displayed as will be described next.

The content can be divided into adjacent or non adjacent periods of time called chapters. For example each chapter can represent a section of a video and each chapter can have an associated time or frame offset within the video. Chapters can be predetermined e.g. by the video content producer or distributor or the video can be processed at runtime to determine chapters. For example the video content can be divided into chapters of equal length. Chapters may also be determined based on automatic recognition of when scene or location changes occur in the video.

The control panel can include a chapter indicator control . If the user selects the chapter indicator control or performs an equivalent gesture a list of chapter indicators can be presented as will be described next.

The chapter indicator list can display a set of chapter indicators where each chapter indicator can include a thumbnail image a chapter name and a time offset within the video for example. Chapter indicators can also be displayed in other forms such as thumbnail images or chapter names without images for example. In this example chapter indicator in the chapter indicator list includes a thumbnail image a chapter name of Flying to the Island and a time offset of 1 16 . And a chapter indicator includes a thumbnail image a chapter name of Speeding Away and a time offset of 16 12 . The chapter indicator list is scrollable through user gestures on display or other means. In various implementations user selection of any part of a chapter indicator will cause the movie to be played beginning at the time offset associated with the selected chapter indicator.

A thumbnail image e.g. is a still image of a video frame representing the chapter. The thumbnail image can be a scaled version of the a non blank e.g. non black frame within the chapter for example. Alternatively a thumbnail image can be selected from all of the frames in the chapter based on a determination as to whether a certain frame conveys enough information to be a visual representation of the chapter. In another alternative a thumbnail image is an image other than a frame in the chapter. Other thumbnail images are possible such as animated thumbnail images or thumbnail images that loop through one or more sequences of a movie or all frames of a movie thereby playing the movie.

In response to the first gesture input a list of chapter indicators for a video is presented with each chapter indicator including a thumbnail image and associated with a time offset in the video step . For example the chapter indicator list can be displayed as previously discussed with respect to . The displayed list of chapter indicators can include one or more chapter indicators such as the chapter indicator which includes a thumbnail image a time offset and a chapter name or the chapter indicator which includes a thumbnail image a time offset and a chapter name . As discussed previously with respect to the chapters in the video can be predetermined or can be determined at runtime.

A second input e.g. gesture input incident on the display is received to select a chapter indicator in the list of chapter indicators step . For example the chapter indicator or chapter indicator can be selected from the chapter indicator list as discussed previously with respect to . The second input can be detected for example by the touch screen and touch screen controller .

In response to the second input the video is played from the selected chapter indicator s respective offset step . For example if the chapter indicator is the selected chapter indicator the associated video can be played from the respective offset i.e. the video can be played starting at the time offset of 1 16 . As another example if the chapter indicator is the selected chapter indicator the video can be played from the respective offset i.e. the video can be played starting at the time offset of 16 12 . The video can be played for example using functionality found in the media processing instructions . As another example the video can be played using the media player object and or the video player object . In some implementations the video can be played using a different video playing application included in the applications .

The chapter indicator can display thumbnail images representing different frames in response to the scrubbing gestures of the user. For example if the user provides a right to left gesture the chapter indicator can display a thumbnail image representing the next frame in the chapter. If the user provides a left to right gesture the chapter indicator can display a thumbnail image representing the previous frame in the chapter. The chapter indicator here shows a transition between the first frame of a chapter represented by the partial thumbnail image and a later frame in the chapter represented by the partial thumbnail image . For example the user may have gestured in a right to left fashion and in response to the gesture the current thumbnail image i.e. is being replaced with a thumbnail image i.e. representing the next frame. The thumbnail image will continue to move leftward and will replace the thumbnail image .

The image illustrates a partial expansion of the thumbnail image and the image illustrates the thumbnail image expanded to a full sized video image i.e. the thumbnail image is expanded to a size which occupies the display . An expansion of the thumbnail image over time is illustrated in by a transition illustrated by arrows from the thumbnail image to the partially enlarged image followed by a transition illustrated by arrows to the full sized image . The zoom out or expansion can appear to the user as a smooth animation of the enlarging of the thumbnail image to its full size i.e. the thumbnail image can smoothly grow increasingly in size over time until it reaches full size as shown in the image . Other animated transitions are also possible.

The user can select a thumbnail image displayed in the grid e.g. by tapping on the thumbnail image or by selecting the thumbnail image through some other gesture . For example the user can select a thumbnail image or a thumbnail image . The video can play in place in the selected thumbnail image starting from the chapter represented by the selected thumbnail image. As another example the selected thumbnail image can expand or zoom out as described previously with respect to and the video can play full screen starting from the chapter represented by the selected thumbnail image. The user can provide a gesture input such as sliding a finger across a thumbnail image to scrub through frames of a chapter as illustrated by the transition from the frame represented by the partial thumbnail image to the frame represented by the partial thumbnail image in the upper left cell of the grid. The scrubbing can occur in a manner similar to the frame scrubbing discussed previously with respect to .

Similar to the previous discussion with respect to the associated video can be played in place in a selected thumbnail image starting from the chapter represented by the selected thumbnail image or a selected thumbnail image can be expanded and the associated video can play full screen starting from the chapter represented by the selected thumbnail image . Also similar to the discussion with respect to the user can scrub through frames of a selected thumbnail image. In various implementations two or more thumbnail images can be scrubbed or played simultaneously.

The user can scroll left or right to view thumbnail images not currently visible on the display as illustrated by arrows and . For example the user can scroll left e.g. by proving a left to right sliding gesture to see thumbnail images corresponding to chapters appearing earlier in the video and the user can scroll right e.g. by providing a right to left sliding gesture to see thumbnail images corresponding to chapters appearing later in the video.

In various implementations a video license identifies one or more videos and corresponding periods of time e.g. 30 days during which the videos can be accessed e.g. played back . A license can be stored on the mobile device or accessed from a remote service such as the license service . For example a video might have a license that allows a user to view the video without limitation during a three day period. Once the license period has expired the video can no longer be accessed and in some implementations is automatically deleted from the user s mobile device. Alternatively once the license period has expired the user is given only partial access to the video e.g. such as the ability to view a trailer for the video .

In some implementations a time period is associated with a count down timer that is started as soon as a video is downloaded to the mobile device or the video is first accessed. Even if a user has paused the playback of a video the count down timer continues until the count is zero at which point access to the video is prevented or restricted. In other implementations a time period is a calendar period such as between March 12and March 15. In this example only during the calendar period will full access to the video be allowed. In a further implementation the a count down timer is only decremented when the video is accessed. Other implementations are possible.

If a user selects a Remind me later button the license renewal reminder is dismissed but will reappear at a later time e.g. the license renewal reminder can appear the next time the user attempts to access or accesses the video . If a user selects a No button the license renewal reminder is dismissed. If the user does not renew the license before the license expires the video will no longer be able to be accessed after the license expiration date. In some implementations the video is deleted from the mobile device after the license expires.

Other reminders are possible including displaying a meter or a count down timer associated with the video at times when the user is attempted to play the video or during the video playback. Alternatively the color of the video s title can be changed a symbol can be placed next to the video s title or other indicia can be presented on a device s display to indicate that the license for a video is nearing expiration or has already expired.

A license renewal request is sent over one or more wireless networks step . For example a license renewal request can be sent by the mobile device to the license service over the network . A license renewal response for the request is then received by the device over the one or more wireless networks step . For example a license renewal response can be received by the mobile device over the network from the license service . The license is then renewed based on the renewal response such that the video can be accessed during a second period of time step . For example the license renewal response can indicate that the video can be accessed for an additional 30 days.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of duties is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may also include separate analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD display or an OLED display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication e.g. via a docking procedure or for wireless communication e.g. via Bluetooth or other such technologies .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or MRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal.

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS receiver module may provide additional wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communication audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codex may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in . For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example various forms of the flows shown above may be used with steps re ordered added or removed. Also although several applications of the payment systems and methods have been described it should be recognized that numerous other applications are contemplated. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

