---

title: Insulated gate bipolar conduction transistors (IBCTS) and related methods of fabrication
abstract: Insulated gate bipolar conduction transistors (IBCTs) are provided. The IBCT includes a drift layer having a first conductivity type. An emitter well region is provided in the drift layer and has a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type. A well region is provided in the drift layer and has the second conductivity type. The well region is spaced apart from the emitter well region. A space between the emitter well region and the well region defines a JFET region of the IBCT. An emitter region is provided in the well region and has the first conductivity type and a buried channel layer is provided on the emitter well region, the well region and the JFET region and has the first conductivity type. Related methods of fabrication are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07687825&OS=07687825&RS=07687825
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 07687825
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070918
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. N00014 05 C 0202 awarded by ONR DARPA. The Government may have certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to power semiconductor devices and related methods of fabricating power semiconductor devices and more particularly to high power bipolar transistors and related methods of fabricating high power bipolar transistors.

Power devices made with silicon carbide SiC are expected to show great advantages as compared to those on silicon for high speed high power and or high temperature applications due to the high critical field and wide band gap of SiC. For devices capable of blocking high voltages such as voltages in excess of about 5 kV it may be desirable to have bipolar operation to reduce the drift layer resistance via conductivity modulation resulting from injected minority carriers. However one technical challenge for bipolar devices in silicon carbide is forward voltage degradation over time possibly due to the presence of Basal Plane Dislocations BPD in single crystals of silicon carbide. Thus unipolar devices such as SiC Schottky diodes and MOSFETs are typically used for high power applications.

SiC DMOSFET devices with a 10 kV blocking capability have been fabricated with a specific on resistance of about 100 m cm. DMOSFET devices may exhibit very fast switching speed of for example less than 100 ns due to their majority carrier nature. However as the desired blocking voltage of devices increases for example up to 15 kV or more the on resistance of a MOSFET device may increase substantially due to the corresponding increase in the drift layer thickness. This problem may be exacerbated at high temperatures due to bulk mobility reduction which may result in excessive power dissipation.

With the progress of SiC crystal material growth several approaches have been developed to mitigate BPD related problems. See e.g. B. Hull M. Das J. Sumakeris J. Richmond and S. Krishinaswami Drift Free 10 kV 20 A 4H SiC PiN Diodes Journal of Electrical Materials Vol. 34 No. 4 2005. These developments may enhance the development and or potential applications of SiC bipolar devices such as thyristors GTOs etc. Even though thyristors and or GTOs may offer low forward voltage drops they may require bulky commutating circuits for the gate drive and protections. Accordingly it may be desirable for a SiC bipolar device to have gate turn off capability.

SiC devices may provide specific on resistances two orders of magnitude lower than that of conventional silicon devices. Due to their superior on state characteristics reasonable switching speed and or excellent safe operation area SOA 4H SiC insulated gate bipolar transistors IGBTs are becoming more suitable for power switching applications. SiC IGBTs are discussed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 831 288 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 121 633 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein as if set forth in their entirety.

However due to the nature of bipolar devices SiC IGBTs may lack current saturation capability and may have a higher activation percentage at high temperatures for p type dopants in SiC. A high p type activation percentage may cause lower JFET effect between n wells for p channel IGBTs or a higher minority injection efficiency from p type collector for n channel IGBTs. Both of these conditions may result in a negative temperature coefficient of on resistance.

Due to low carrier lifetimes on SiC the majority carriers modulation in the emitter side may be low which may result in a high forward voltage for IGBTs.

Some embodiments of the invention provide an insulated gate bipolar conduction transistor IBCT . The IBCT includes a drift layer having a first conductivity type. An emitter well region is provided in the drift layer and has a second conductivity type opposite the first conductivity type. A well region is provided in the drift layer and has the second conductivity type. The well region is spaced apart from the emitter well region. A space between the emitter well region and the well region defines a JFET region of the IBCT. An emitter region is provided in the well region and has the first conductivity type and a buried channel layer is provided on the emitter well region the well region and the JFET region and has the second conductivity type.

In further embodiments of the present invention the buried channel layer may include an epitaxial layer. The buried channel layer may have a thickness of from about 1000 to about 3000 and a doping concentration of from about 5 10to about 1 10cm.

In still further embodiments of the present invention a substrate may be provided and the substrate may be an off axis n type silicon carbide substrate and the drift layer and the buried channel layer may be p type silicon carbide epitaxial layers.

In some embodiments of the present invention the drift layer may have a doping concentration of from about 2 10cmto about 6 10cmand a thickness of from about 100 m to about 120 m for greater than 10 kV applications.

In further embodiments of the present invention the IBCT may have a blocking voltage of about 8.0 kV and a leakage current of less than about 0.1 mA cm.

In still further embodiments of the present invention the IBCT may have a differential on resistance of 50 m cmat a gate bias of 16V at 25 C.

In some embodiments of the present invention the first conductivity type may be n type and the second conductivity type may be p type. In certain embodiments the first conductivity type may be p type and the second conductivity type may be n type.

In further embodiments of the present invention a buffer layer may be provided between a substrate and the drift layer wherein the buffer layer has the first conductivity type.

Still further embodiments of the present invention provide IBCTs including a bipolar junction transistor BJT portion and an insulated gate bipolar transistor IGBT portion.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide silicon carbide insulated gate bipolar conduction transistors IBCTs . The IBCTs include an n type conductivity silicon carbide substrate and a p type silicon carbide drift layer on the silicon carbide substrate. An n type silicon carbide emitter well region is provided in the p type silicon carbide drift layer and an n type silicon carbide well region in the p type silicon carbide drift layer spaced apart from the n type silicon carbide emitter well region. A space between the n type silicon carbide emitter well region and the n type silicon carbide well region defines a JFET region of the IBCT. A p type silicon carbide emitter region is provided in the well region and a p type silicon carbide buried channel layer is provided on the emitter well region the well region and the JFET region.

Although embodiments of the present invention are discussed above with respect to device embodiments method embodiments are also provided herein.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first element could be termed a second element and similarly a second element could be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms used herein should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of this specification and the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

It will be understood that when an element such as a layer region or substrate is referred to as being on or extending onto another element it can be directly on or extend directly onto the other element or intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or extending directly onto another element there are no intervening elements present. It will also be understood that when an element is referred to as being connected or coupled to another element it can be directly connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present.

Relative terms such as below or above or upper or lower or horizontal or lateral or vertical may be used herein to describe a relationship of one element layer or region to another element layer or region as illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that these terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures.

Embodiments of the invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments and intermediate structures of the invention. The thickness of layers and regions in the drawings may be exaggerated for clarity. Additionally variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a discrete change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Some embodiments of the invention are described with reference to semiconductor layers and or regions which are characterized as having a conductivity type such as n type or p type which refers to the majority carrier concentration in the layer and or region. Thus n type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of negatively charged electrons while p type material has a majority equilibrium concentration of positively charged holes. Some material may be designated with a or as in n n p p n n p p or the like to indicate a relatively larger or smaller concentration of majority carriers compared to another layer or region. However such notation does not imply the existence of a particular concentration of majority or minority carriers in a layer or region.

As will be discussed further herein with respect to some embodiments of the invention provide SiC Insulated gate Bipolar Conduction Transistors IBCTs for high power applications and methods of fabricating the same. IBCTs according to some embodiments of the present invention incorporate elements from both the Bipolar Junction Transistor BJT structure and the Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistor IGBT structure. It will be understood that in some embodiments of the present invention the emitter well region of the BJT portion can be electrically shorted to the emitter contact or floating without departing from the scope of the present invention. Provision of a metal oxide semiconductor MOS channel on a BJT portion of the IBCT as discussed herein may provide a voltage driven device which may require a less complicated gate driver and a lower power loss. Furthermore the provision of an epitaxial buried channel as discussed herein may provide eliminate surface roughness caused by previous ion implantation processes. The buried channel may be grown after a high temperature anneal for activation of implants thus providing IBCTs having improved MOS interfaces as will be discussed herein.

Some embodiments of the present invention will now be discussed with respect to . Referring first to a unit cell of an IBCT structure according to some embodiments of the present invention will be discussed. According to some embodiments of the present invention IBCTs having the structure of may exhibit current saturation at device operation conditions and a reduced positive temperature coefficient of on resistance. In some embodiments of the present invention a negative temperature coefficient may be achieved.

As a preliminary note the cross section of the device in contains two halves. The first half A of the device has a structure similar to a conventional BJT but has a metal semiconductor oxide MOS channel therein. The second half B of the device has a structure similar to a conventional IGBT.

Referring again to the device of includes a SiC semiconductor substrate . In some embodiments of the present invention the substrate is an n type 4H SiC off axis semiconductor substrate for example 8.0 degrees off axis. The substrate may be highly conductive and have a thickness of from about 200 to about 300 m. A p type buffer layer and a p drift epitaxial layer may be provided on the substrate . The p type buffer layer may have a thickness of from about 1.0 to about 2.0 m and a doping concentration of about 1 10cm. In some embodiments of the present invention the p type buffer layer may be provided as a channel field stop layer to reduce the likelihood or possibly prevent punch through. The p drift layer may have a thickness of from about 100 to about 120 m and a doping concentration of about 2.0 10cmto about 6.0 10cmto provide a blocking capability of about 10 kV.

As further illustrated in the device may further include an optional p type top conductive layer on the p drift layer . The dotted lines indicate the optional nature of the p type top conductive layer. The p type top conductive layer may have a thickness of about 1.0 m and a doping concentration of about 1.0 10cm. The presence of this p type top conductive layer may reduce or possibly eliminate JFET effects and may achieve a high carrier lifetime. As discussed above the p type top conductive layer is optional. A cross section of IBCTs not including the optional p type top conductive layer is illustrated .

As further illustrated in an n type emitter well region and an n well region are provided in the p type top conductive layer . As discussed above in some embodiments of the present invention the emitter well region of the BJT portion can be electrically shorted to the emitter contact as illustrated in . However in some embodiments of the present invention the emitter well region of the BJT portion can be floating as illustrated in without departing from the scope of the present invention. In particular as illustrated in an oxide region may be provided between the emitter well region and the emitter contact .

In embodiments of the present invention where the p type top conductive layer is not present for example embodiments of the present invention illustrated in the n type emitter well region and the n well region are provided in the p drift layer . A p emitter region is also provided in the n well region . As further illustrated the device further includes an n contact region in the well region . The n contact region may have a doping concentration of about 1 10cm. A guard ring based termination not shown may be provided around the device periphery in some embodiments of the present invention.

As further illustrated in a buried MOS channel may be provided on the surface of the device and in the MOS channel region of the device . The buried MOS channel may be p type SiC have a doping concentration of about 1 10and have a thickness of about 3000 . The formation and or presence of the buried channel layer may eliminate surface roughness caused by ion implantation and may exhibit less crystal defects because an activation anneal may before performed before formation thereof as will be discussed further below. A field oxide including for example silicon dioxide is provided on the buried MOS channel such that it exposes an active region of the device. The field oxide may have a thickness of about 1.0 m. A gate oxide layer may also be provided on the device and such that a final gate oxide thickness is from about 400 to about 600 .

A polysilicon gate may be provided on the resulting device as illustrated in . Ohmic contacts and may provide an emitter contact metal and a collector contact metal respectively. In some embodiments of the present invention the emitter contact metal may include aluminum and nickel Al Ni and the collector contact metal may include Ni.

Accordingly as discussed above some embodiments of the present invention provide IBCTs which combine elements of IGBTs and BJTs. IBCTs according to some embodiments of the present invention include a MOS channel on the IGBT side to provide base current which may allow current saturation unlike conventional IGBT devices for use in current sensitive devices. Furthermore devices according to embodiments of the present invention are voltage driven devices and therefore may have a relatively less complicated driver and much lower power loss i.e. as the voltage increases the current saturates. Furthermore the JFET region according to some embodiments of the present invention may be wider for example from about 5.0 to about 10.0 m wider than in conventional devices thereby enhancing current conduction and increasing the electric field.

Referring now to processing steps in the fabrication of IBCTs according to some embodiments of the present invention will be discussed. Referring first to a p type buffer layer and a p drift epitaxial layer are formed on a SiC semiconductor substrate . In some embodiments of the present invention the substrate is an n type 4H SiC off axis semiconductor substrate for example 8.0 degrees off axis. The substrate may be highly conductive and have a thickness of from about 200 to about 300 m. The p type buffer layer may have a thickness of from about 1.0 to about 2.0 m and a doping concentration of about 1 10cm. In some embodiments of the present invention the p type buffer layer may be provided as a channel field stop layer to reduce the likelihood or possibly prevent punch through. The p drift layer may have a thickness of from about 100 to about 120 m and may be doped with p type dopants at a doping concentration of about 2.0 10cmto about 6.0 10cmfor a blocking capability of about 10 kV.

Referring now to an optional p type top conductive layer may be formed on the p drift layer . The p type top conductive layer may have a thickness of about 1.0 m and a doping concentration of about 1.0 10cm. The presence of this p type top conductive layer may reduce or possibly eliminate JFET effects and may achieve a high carrier lifetime. Embodiments of the present invention omitting the formation of the p type top conductive layer are illustrated in the cross section of IBCTs according to some embodiments of the present invention illustrated in .

The p type top conductive layer may be formed for example by implantation of aluminum in the p drift layer . The p type top conductive layer may be implanted with p type dopants to reduce the JFET resistance from the adjacent n type well regions. In particular the JFET implantation dose may be selected to reduce the JFET resistance while keeping implant damage at an acceptable level. In some embodiments implantation may be performed at a dose sufficient to provide a dopant concentration of about 1.0 10cmin the JFET region. In some embodiments of the present invention the p type top conductive layer may be formed by an epitaxial growth process which may achieve a high carrier lifetime. Implanted and epitaxial top conductive layers are discussed in detail in commonly assigned copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 711 383 to Zhang filed Feb. 27 2007 entitled the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference as if set forth in its entirety. Thus further details with respect to the p type top conductive layer will not be discussed further herein.

Referring still to an n type emitter well region and an n well region are formed in the p drift layer or the p type top conductive layer if present. The emitter well region and well region may be formed using ion implantation or eptiaxial growth. The n type regions may be implanted selectively using nitrogen. In embodiments of the present invention using epitaxial growth the n or p type wells and emitter wells formed by epitaxial growth may have reduced crystal damages and achieve a high hole carrier concentration. Furthermore according to some embodiments of the present invention n or p type top emitter wells can be localized to further improve an on resistance of the IBCTs by providing more current conduction paths in JFET region. The cell can be linear but may also have other shapes.

Referring now to a p emitter region is formed in the n well region . The p type regions may be implanted selectively using aluminum. In some embodiments of the present invention the p emitter region may be epitaxially grown without departing from the scope of the present invention. An n contact region having a doping concentration of about 1 10cmmay be formed in the well region adjacent the p emitter region . The n contact region may be implanted or epitaxially grown without departing from the scope of the present invention. All of the implants may be annealed at a temperature of from about 1650 to about 1850 C.

As further illustrated in a buried MOS channel may be provided on the surface of the device. The buried MOS channel may be p type SiC have a doping concentration of about 1 10and have a thickness of about 3000 . The formation and or presence of the buried channel layer may eliminate surface roughness caused by ion implantation and may exhibit less crystal defects because an activation anneal may be performed before formation thereof as will be discussed further below.

The buried channel layer may be formed using ion implantation and or epitaxial regrowth techniques. For example after the activation anneal discussed above a buried channel layer may be grown by epitaxial regrowth. In these embodiments of the present invention the buried channel may also permit formation of a deep n well that may prevent latch up by lifting the p type emitter implants to the buried channel regrowth layer. The deep n well may cause a lower n well resistance and may increase the device latch up current. In further embodiments of the present invention the buried channel may be formed by ion implantation. The buried channel may also be formed by p type epitaxial growth which may provide a high channel mobility and or a long carrier lifetime.

As discussed above all of the implanted dopants may be activated by annealing the structure at a temperature of from about 1650 to about 1850 C. with a silicon over pressure and or covered by an encapsulation layer such as a graphite film. A high temperature anneal may damage the surface of the silicon carbide epitaxy. In some embodiments of the present invention in order to reduce such damage a graphite coating may be formed on the surface of the device. Prior to annealing the device to activate the implanted ions a graphite coating may be applied to the top front side of the structure in order to protect the surface of the structure during the anneal. The graphite coating may be applied by a conventional resist coating method and may have a thickness of about 1.0 m. The graphite coating may be heated to form a crystalline coating on the p drift layer . The implanted ions may be activated by a thermal anneal that may be performed for example in an inert gas at a temperature of about 1600 C. or greater. In particular the thermal anneal may be performed at a temperature of about 1600 C. in argon for about 5 minutes. The graphite coating may help to protect the surface of the drift layer during the high temperature anneal.

Referring now to the graphite coating may then be removed for example by ashing and thermal oxidation. After implant annealing a field oxide of silicon dioxide having a thickness of about 1.0 m is deposited and patterned to expose the active region of the device. A gate oxide layer may be formed by a gate oxidation process with a final gate oxide thickness of from about 400 to about 600 .

In particular the gate oxide may be grown by a dry wet oxidation process that includes a growth of bulk oxide in dry Ofollowed by an anneal of the bulk oxide in wet Oas described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 972 801 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As used herein anneal of oxide in wet O refers to anneal of an oxide in an ambient containing both Oand vaporized HO. An anneal may be performed in between the dry oxide growth and the wet oxide growth. The dry Ooxide growth may be performed for example in a quartz tube at a temperature of up to about 1200 C. in dry Ofor a time of at least about 2.5 hours. Dry oxide growth is performed to grow the bulk oxide layer to a desired thickness. The temperature of the dry oxide growth may affect the oxide growth rate. For example higher process temperatures may produce higher oxide growth rates. The maximum growth temperature may be dependent on the system used.

In some embodiments the dry Ooxide growth may be performed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in dry Ofor about 3.5 hours. The resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of tip to about 1200 C. in an inert atmosphere. In particular the resulting oxide layer may be annealed at a temperature of about 1175 C. in Ar for about 1 hour. The wet Ooxide anneal may be performed at a temperature of about 950 C. or less for a time of at least about 1 hour. The temperature of the wet Oanneal may be limited to discourage further thermal oxide growth at the SiC SiOinterface which may introduce additional interface states. In particular the wet Oanneal may be performed in wet Oat a temperature of about 950 C. for about 3 hours. The resulting gate oxide layer may have a thickness of about 500 .

Referring again to after formation of the gate oxide a polysilicon gate may be deposited and doped for example with boron followed by a metallization process to reduce the gate resistance. Al Ni contacts may be deposited as the p type ohmic emitter contact metal and Ni as the n type collector contact metal . All contacts may be sintered in a Rapid Thermal Annealer RTA and thick Ti Au layers may be used for pad metals.

Thus according to some embodiments of the present invention high channel mobility may be achieved by using buried channel epitaxial regrowth with the same polarity as the drift layer or activating channel implants at high temperature with or without an encapsulation layer such as graphite film as discussed herein. Furthermore n or p type wells and emitter wells can be formed by epitaxial growth instead of ion implantation to reduce the crystal damages from ion implantation and achieve a high hole carrier concentration. The n or p type top emitter wells may also be localized to further improve the IBCT s on resistance by providing more current conduction paths in JFET region the cell could be linear and other shapes.

Referring now to layout diagrams illustrating A continuous and B local emitter wells for IBCTs according to some embodiments of the present invention will be discussed. Referring first to a 50 50 ratio layout for IBCTs according to some embodiments of the present invention is illustrated i.e. half of the die corresponds to the BJT portion A of the IBCT and half the die correspond to the IGBT portion B of the IBCT.

Referring now to FIGS. and A example simulation results for IBCTs according to some embodiments of the present invention will be discussed. A p channel IBCT was fabricated in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. A cross section and die layout of the planar IBCT structure used for the simulation is illustrated in . A p type buffer layer and drift epilayer were grown on an n type off axis 4H SiC substrate. The p type buffer layer had a doping concentration of about 1.0 10cmto reduce the likelihood or possibly prevent punch through. The p drift layer was selected based on the blocking rating. For example the p drift layer had a thickness of about 100 m and a doping concentration of from about 2.0 10to about 6.0 10cm which provided 10 kV blocking capability. A P type top conductive layer having a thickness of 1.0 m thick and a doping concentration of about 1.0 10cmwas formed on the p drift layer to reduce or possibly eliminate JFET effects and achieve a high carrier lifetime.

The n well n emitter of BJT portion and p emitter regions were implanted selectively with Nitrogen and Aluminum. A p type buried channel concept was used to modify the threshold voltage and improve the inversion channel mobility. It will be understood that the buried channel can formed as an as grown material or by additional layer regrowth without departing from the scope of the present invention. In embodiments of the present invention using regrowth to form the buried channel after high temperature implantation activation a buried channel was grown. All implants were activated at high temperature with silicon over pressure or covered by an encapsulation layer such as a graphite film. A layer of SiOhave a thickness of about 1.0 m was deposited on the device as the field oxide . A MOS oxide was thermally grown on the device and had a thickness of from about 400 to about 600 . Subsequently a polysilicon gate was deposited and doped with Boron. Al Ni was used as p type ohmic contact emitter contact and Ni as the n type contact metal collector contact . All contacts were annealed using RTA and thick Ti Au layers were used for overlayer metals. The demonstrated IBCT has an active area of about 0.4 mm.

IBCTs according to some embodiments of the present invention fabricated as discussed above demonstrated a blocking voltage of 8.0 kV with a leakage current of less than about 0.1 mA cm. A differential on resistance of 50 m cmat the gate bias of 16V was achieved at 25 C. and decreased to 38 m cmat 200 C. as shown in which illustrates a graph of on state J V characteristics for IBCT devices according to some embodiments of the invention.

For comparison the on state characteristics of an IGBT fabricated in conjunction with IBCTs are illustrated in . A differential on resistance of 39 m cmat the gate bias of 16V was achieved at 25 C. and decreased to 23 m cmat 200 C. At a gate bias of 16 V the conduction current of IGBTs keeps exponentially increasing with the collector voltage while a clear current saturation can be observed in IBCTs.

It will be appreciated that although some embodiments of the invention have been described in connection with silicon carbide IBCT devices having n type substrates and p type drift layers and in which the minority carriers injected into the drift layer include electrons the present invention is not limited thereto and may be embodied in devices having p type substrates and or n type drift layers.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

