---

title: Method and apparatus for determining the significance and relevance of a web page, or a portion thereof
abstract: A method for determining the significance of a web page, or a portion thereof, is disclosed. Accordingly, a search engine or some other application analyzes user-generated highlights (as well as user-provided comments associated with the highlights) of a document to determine a document relevance score (e.g., Highlight Rank) for the document containing the user-generated highlights. The particular algorithm for determining the document relevance score will vary depending upon the particular implementation, but may generally be based upon an analysis of the number and quality of user-generated highlights and associated comments within a document. Based on this analysis, the search engine assigns the document a document relevance score, which is used for processing the document in accordance with instructions associated with a search query. For example, the document relevance score may be used in selecting and ordering documents returned in search results for a particular search query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08661031&OS=08661031&RS=08661031
owner: 
number: 08661031
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070621
---
The present application claims the benefit of the filing date of the U.S. Provisional Patent Application with Ser. No. 60 815 467 filed on Jun. 22 2006 the contents of which is incorporated herewith.

The present invention relates generally to computer network based information retrieval techniques. More particularly the present invention relates to methods and systems for searching for and ranking rating or otherwise indicating the significance of a web page or a portion thereof.

A variety of attempts have been made at organizing the vast amount of material e.g. internet documents or web pages available on the Internet in general and the World Wide Web in particular. Many attempts at organizing internet documents are directed at making it easier to perform searches and for identifying the most relevant material. Although certain techniques for organizing internet documents have proven more successful than others each method suffers from one or more flaws.

One approach to the problem involves organizing internet documents into a predetermined hierarchy to form a directory of content. Under this approach a directory or hierarchical structure is created that includes several categories and perhaps several sub categories based on subject matter. Next one or more persons individually analyzes each internet document and assigns the document to one or more categories.

This general approach suffers from numerous problems. First because this approach does not depend on automated analysis the vast amount of material that requires analysis makes this approach expensive in terms of man hours to implement. That is employees of the enterprise providing the search service must spend significant amounts of time at the employer s expense analyzing and categorizing web pages. Furthermore because the analysis is dependent upon human reasoning and the number of persons needed to perform the analysis is significant there is a significant likelihood that inconsistencies will exist. For instance the interpretation by different persons analyzing the content is likely to differ thereby resulting in inconsistent organization of the content. Moreover as web authoring tools have improved web based content has become much more dynamic. Consequently content must be frequently revisited and re analyzed in order to maintain accurate categorization.

A second approach to the problem involves automating the task of organizing content by using software agents referred to as bots to analyze content including metadata associated with each document. Under this approach a software agent referred to as a bot or web crawler automatically performs an analysis of a large number of interact documents and creates an index based on the analysis. The index is then used by a search engine to perform a look up of those documents that include key words or phrases specified in a search query. The search results will generally be ordered or ranked based on document relevance for example measured as the number of times a key word is included in a document.

One problem with this approach is that content authors can easily manipulate search results by including metadata in an internet document. For instance if enterprise A is a competitor of enterprise B enterprise A can include as metadata the name of enterprise B in its internet documents. This will raise the level of significance of enterprise A s internet documents for searches that include as a keyword the name of enterprise B. For example if a user performs a search for the name of enterprise B an internet document of enterprise A is likely to be included in the search results and possibly listed higher in order than an internet document for enterprise B. This ability to manipulate search results makes this method problematic.

In yet another approach to the problem metadata manipulation is overcome by determining an internet document s relevance based on an analysis of incoming links directed to a particular internet document. For example if the analysis of a large number of internet documents indicates that a particular internet document is the most frequently linked to document in the group then there is an assumption that the internet document is the most relevant. Moreover the weight given to each incoming link to a document might vary in accordance with the relevance of the document containing the link. That is if a document that is deemed highly relevant includes a link to another document that link may be given greater weight because of the high relevance of the document containing the link. This type of analysis is explained in greater detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 285 999 entitled Method for Node Ranking in a Linked Database. 

One of the primary problems with this approach is that an internet document s relevance is determined not by the end users e.g. the readers of the internet document but by the authors of other internet documents. Consequently only content authors have a vote in determining a document s relevance. Many users e.g. readers of Internet content either have no desire to be publishers of content or do not have the technical savvy to publish content. In any case these users are not provided a voice in determining the relevance of Internet content. Consequently a better method of determining content relevance is desirable.

A method for determining the significance of a web page or a portion thereof is disclosed. Accordingly a search engine or some other application analyzes user generated highlights as well as user provided comments associated with the highlights of a document to determine a document relevance score e.g. Highlight Rank for the document containing the user generated highlights. The particular algorithm for determining the document relevance score will vary depending upon the particular implementation but may generally be based upon an analysis of the number and quality of user generated highlights and associated comments within a document. Based on this analysis the search engine assigns the document a document relevance score which is used for processing the document in accordance with instructions associated with a search query. For example the document relevance score may be used in selecting and ordering documents returned in search results for a particular search query.

In another aspect of the invention search results to a search query are provided. In one embodiment of the invention a search engine provides a user with the ability to search for documents containing search terms that have been highlighted. Moreover various search parameters enable the user to fine tune the search. In another embodiment a search engine provides search results to a search query based in part on an analysis of user generated highlights associated with documents that otherwise satisfy various user specified search parameters. Other aspects of the invention are described in greater detail below.

Reference will now be made in detail to an implementation consistent with the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like parts. Although discussed with reference to these illustrations the present invention is not limited to the implementations illustrated therein. Hence the reader should regard these illustrations merely as examples of embodiments of the present invention the full scope of which is measured only in terms of the claims following this description.

Consistent with one embodiment of the invention a search engine receives a search query specifying one or more keywords or search terms. The search engine processes the search query by identifying internet documents that satisfy the search query. For example the search engine may process the search query by identifying those documents that include one or more of the search terms. In addition the search engine orders the internet documents that satisfy the search query based in part on a document relevance score assigned to each internet document where the document relevance score referred to herein as a Highlight Rank is based on an analysis of user generated highlights associated with the internet documents.

In various embodiments of the invention the particular analysis of the user generated highlights which is used to rank or rate document relevance in a search may vary. For example in one embodiment of the invention the document relevance score is assigned to each document based on how many times the internet document has been highlighted. In another embodiment of the invention the document relevance score is assigned based on the number of unique users who have made a highlight in the internet document. In yet another embodiment of the invention the document relevance score is determined in connection with a particular keyword or words appearing in the internet document. For instance the document relevance score may be based on the number of times a particular keyword or words have been highlighted in the document.

In yet another aspect of the invention data associated with highlights may be used as a search parameter and or to rate or rank the relevance of a document or a portion thereof. For example in one embodiment of the invention the highlighting service which enables the creation of highlights may also allow users to associate comments with the highlights. Accordingly a search may be performed to locate a particular search term within a comment that is a associated with a highlight. Similarly the number of comments associated with a highlight particularly a certain word that has been highlighted may be an indication of the document s relevance with respect to search terms that include the highlighted word. Accordingly a document with a highlight that has many comments may in one embodiment of the invention be assigned a higher document relevance score.

In yet another aspect of the invention searchers may specify the source of a highlight or a comment associated with a highlight as a search parameter for a search query. For example a searcher may be interested only in documents that have been highlighted by or include comments from a particular source such as a particular user or person a person within the searcher s social network and or a member of a particular group.

In various embodiments of the invention other attributes and characteristics of a highlighting service may be used as search parameters in a search query or as data for weighting ranking or rating a document s relevance. For instance a highlighting service may enable users to rate or rank other user s highlights or comments. The rating or ranking may be as simple as selecting a number on a scale such as one to five or one stars through five stars. Alternatively a highlight or comment may be marked as a favorite by a user. Accordingly a searcher may specify as a search parameter a particular ranking or rating associated with a highlight or comment. For example a searcher may perform a search only for documents containing highlights that have an aggregate user rating equal to or above some threshold rating. Similarly the ranking or rating information may be aggregated such that all user rankings or ratings associated with a document highlight or comment may be used to determine the relevance of a particular object e.g. the document highlight or comment . Other aspects of the invention are described in detail below.

Referring again to in accordance with an embodiment of the invention a user can perform a search to locate internet documents or web pages which include search terms in highlighted portions of the document. Accordingly if user A is responsible for the highlighted portions of the web page illustrated in the highlights made by user A are available to be searched by any user. For example user B may perform a search for all documents that contain the search term BOEING in a highlighted portion of the document. In this case a link to the web page illustrated in would be provided as a search result to user B s search.

In another aspect of the invention highlights are analyzed in the aggregate. That is highlights made by all users of a highlighting service may be analyzed in the aggregate to determine a document s relevance. For example if numerous user s highlight the same word phrase or passage in a particular document the document may be particularly relevant with respect to searches having search terms found in the highlighted portion of the document. Consequently tallying the total number of times a particular word or words are highlighted in a particular document can be used to provide a measure of that document s relevance with respect to that key word or words. By using information mined from user generated highlights search engine accuracy can be improved.

In general a user e.g. a searcher performs a search by specifying one or more search terms and or parameters. Referring again to for example a searcher may perform a search by inputting search terms in text input box and selecting the SEARCH button . In addition the searcher may specify other search parameters. For example as illustrated in in drop down box a searcher can specify a location in which to search for the particular user specified search terms. In one embodiment of the invention a search can be performed to locate documents that include the search terms within a highlighted portion of the document. For instance by specifying in drop down box to run the search for ALL HIGHLIGHTS a user can find all documents that include the search term BOEING within a highlighted portion of the document.

Alternatively a user may wish to narrow the search by specifying that the search term be located within highlights that were made only by members of the searcher s network. In various embodiments of the invention different mechanisms may be used to build out and determine who is in a particular searcher s network. In any case by specifying something like MY NETWORK HIGHLIGHTS in drop down box a user can search for documents which contain the search term in a highlight made by a member of the searcher s network.

In addition a searcher may specify that the search is to be executed only against the searcher s own highlights. For example by specifying MY HIGHLIGHTS in the drop down box in the searcher can search for documents that include the search term BOEING in a portion of a document previously highlighted by the searcher.

The drop down box in the search page of provides a variety of other examples of search parameters that may be specified by a searcher according to an embodiment of the invention. For example a searcher may specify that the search term is to be located within the title of a highlighted page e.g. by specifying TITLE OF PAGE . In yet another example the searcher may specify what domain a target document with a highlight should be located within. For instance a user may specify that the search term be found in a highlighted portion of a document that is hosted at a particular domain such as Wikipedia or eBay. In various embodiments of the invention the drop down box illustrated in may be customized with any number of other search parameters. Furthermore those skilled in the art will appreciate that the search parameters illustrated in may be implemented with a wide variety of alternative user interface objects consistent with the invention and that the drop down box illustrated in is simply one example.

In one embodiment of the invention a great number of other search parameters may be specified for an advanced search. illustrates an example of an internet document or web page providing an advanced search interface according to an embodiment of the invention. As illustrated in several text input boxes are provided e.g. text input boxes associated with reference numbers and thereby enabling a searcher to select a particular type of search. For example by entering search terms in the text box with reference a search can specify that all of the search terms are required to be found in the target objects. Similarly by entering search terms at text box the searcher can specify an exact phrase as a search term. By using text boxes and or a searcher can specify that the target object include at least one search term or none of the search terms. In this case the type of the target object is set by checking one or more of the target location boxes associated with each text entry box e.g. and or . For instance a searcher can perform a search for internet documents that include certain user specified search terms within such targets as 1 a highlighted portion of the internet document 2 a title of an internet document 3 a comment associated with a highlighted portion of an internet document and or 4 a web page or internet document. For instance by entering a search term e.g. BOEING in the text entry box associated with reference and checking the box for on pages a searcher can perform a search for all documents that include the term BOEING in the text of the document. After entering the appropriate search terms and selecting the target requirements a searcher simply selects the search button to perform the search.

As illustrated in other search parameters may be specified as well. For example the drop down box with reference number enables a user to select a source for the target object. That is if a searcher is performing a search to find a particular search term within a highlight then the searcher can specify that the search is to return only those highlights that include the search term and that were made by a particular user a user from a particular group or a person within the searcher s network etc. Similarly drop down box enables a user to specify when a particular target object e.g highlight comment etc. was made. For example a searcher can specify that only highlights or comments made on or before a particular date or after a particular date be returned in the search results.

The drop down boxes associated with reference number enable a searcher to specify a rating associated with a target object. For example in one embodiment of the invention users can rate highlights and or comments. Accordingly a searcher may be interested in only finding highlights or comments that have an aggregate or overall rating that exceeds some predetermined user specified level. Similarly a searcher may specify whether the target object is to have any associated comments or not. For example a searcher may be interested in only those highlights that have received user comments. A searcher may also specify a particular number of highlights to be included in a target document. For example the searcher may only want to view internet documents that have been highlighted a certain number of times. Finally with the radio buttons associated with reference number a searcher may set a search parameter controlling the domains that are searched. For instance another search parameter that may be controlled via the advanced search interface is the domain associated with the target object. A searcher may specify that the search only return documents from a particular domain or from all domains except a particular domain.

According to the method illustrated in the set of internet documents to be searched may include both documents with and without user generated highlights. In one embodiment of the invention method operation orders the documents satisfying the search parameters such that the documents that have highlights are listed prior to any documents that have not been highlighted. Alternatively in one embodiment only the documents that have highlights are listed in search results. For example by default a document must have been highlighted to be included in a list of search results thereby reducing the overall number of documents that are listed in any given set of search results.

In an alterative embodiment of the invention the search engine may target only those documents that have user generated highlights. For example as illustrated in one method for providing search results to a search query begins at step when a search engine receives user specified search parameters including one or more search terms. At step the search query is processed by identifying those documents from a group of previously highlighted documents that otherwise satisfy the search parameters. For example the universe of documents to be searched is limited to those documents that a user has already highlighted. Finally at step the results of the search query are provided in an order that is based in part on an analysis of the user generated highlights.

At method operation a document relevance score e.g. Highlight Rank which is determined at method operation is assigned to the document. The document relevance score may be based directly on any one of the measures described above e.g. number of highlights number of comments etc. or some combination of such measures. For instance one or more of the above described measures may be weighted and then combined in some manner to arrive at an overall document relevance score referred to as a Highlight Rank. Finally at method operation the document is processed in accordance with instructions associated with a search query. For example the document may be positioned in the search results of a search query based in part on its document relevance score or Highlight Rank prior to being returned or displayed to a searcher.

Consistent with an embodiment of the invention the level of significance of an object or document is determined based on an analysis of user generated highlights or data associated with user generated highlights. For example in one embodiment of the invention the level of significance of an internet document may be determined in part on the total number of user generated highlights associated with a particular internet document. In this case the document relevance score representing the level of significance is independent of any search terms and can be calculated and assigned prior to a search being performed. For example a tally of user generated highlights can be kept on an on going basis. Then when a search is performed those documents that satisfy the search can be presented in an order that is based on the predetermined document relevance score of each document.

In another embodiment of the invention the level of significance of each internet document may be determined based on the number of search terms that appear within a highlighted portion of a document. For instance internet documents that have been highlighted by a user may be analyzed to determine a count of the number of times each word in the document has been highlighted. Accordingly as the documents that satisfy a search query are identified the count of the times that each search term has been highlighted can be used to determine document relevance. Accordingly the document relevance can be used to order the documents as they are listed or otherwise provided in search results.

In one embodiment of the invention in addition to analyzing user generated highlights document relevance scores are determined based on a wide variety of user initiated activities associated with documents. For example the score assigned to a particular document might be based in whole or in part on the number of comments associated with the document the number of user ratings associated with a document an average user rating associated with the document the number of relevance flags associated with the document the number of times the document has been viewed the number of times the document has been emailed the number of times the document has been marked as a user favorite and or the number of times the document has been copied. Similarly the document relevance score may be based on one or more of the following the number of users who have generated highlights on the document the number of users who have provided comments on the document or a highlight associated with the document the number of users who have provided a rating for the document a highlight associated with the document or a comment on the document the number of users who have flagged relevance the number of users who have viewed the document the number of users who have emailed the document the number of viewers who have marked the document as a favorite and or the number of users who have copied the document.

In one embodiment of the invention one or more of the components that comprise the document relevance score may be weighted according to a weighting factor. For instance in one embodiment of the invention a user of the highlighting service may be assigned a user rating or score based in whole or in part on how other users rank or rate the user or past highlights or comments made by the user. Accordingly a highlight or comment made by a user who has a high user rating will carry more weight in determining the document relevance score. For example a document with several highlights made by users with high ratings will have a greater document relevance score than a similar document with highlights made by users who have low user ratings. In addition a user s level of activity may play a part in determining his or her user rating and therefore affect the weight of any highlights or comments made by that user in determining a document relevance score. For instance in one embodiment active users who make a relatively large number of comments or highlights may have higher or lower user ratings thereby increasing or decreasing the user weighting factor for highlights or comments made by those users. In yet another embodiment of the invention a highlight or comment may be weighted based on how many people have subscribed to receive highlights from the person who made the highlight or comments. For instance in one embodiment of the invention users can subscribe to receive other user s highlights. Accordingly a user who has been highly subscribed to e.g. many other users have subscribed to receive the user s highlights will generally have a greater user rating and thus highlights or comments made by that user will carry greater weight in determining a document relevance score. A user s rating may change over time for example as other users continually provide new ratings for the user and his or her highlights and or comments. Furthermore a user s rating may be different with respect to different subjects and or objects. For instance a user may have a rating that is dependent upon or based upon highlights the user has made to documents in a given domain. Accordingly the user may have a rating for that domain that is different than his or her rating for other domains. Similarly a user may have one rating for comments and another rating for highlights.

In one embodiment of the invention the document relevance score may be normalized and then presented with the search results associated with a search query. For example the document relevance score may be normalized to a number between one and ten and then displayed along with the document to which it is associated. Similarly a graphical icon or image may be presented to indicate a summary of the document relevance score. For example the graphic may be a number of stars where more stars represent a greater document relevance of higher Highlight Rank. Similarly the graphic may be a number of highlighter markers where the number of highlighter markers indicates the overall relevance of the document based on the analysis of the highlights associated with the document.

In yet another embodiment of the invention multiple document relevance scores may be determined and displayed. For instance one graphic or icon may represent a document s relevance as measured under one algorithm while a second graphic represents the document s relevance as measured under another algorithm. For example separate graphics or icons may be used to display information about the highlights and comments in the associated documents. One icon may represent the number of comments while the other icon represents the number of highlights. Other variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

In one embodiment of the invention the search engine may be tightly integrated with the highlighting service that is used to manage the highlights associated with the internet documents. Accordingly in one embodiment the universe of searchable documents may be only those documents that have been highlighted by a user of the highlighting service. In another embodiment of the invention the search engine may be operated on a server that is remote from the highlighting server providing the highlighting service. In this case the highlighting service may be consulted only for purposes of ranking or ordering documents that the search engine has identified as satisfying the search query. Accordingly the search engine may simply communicate messages e.g. via an applications programming interface or API with the highlighting service to obtain document relevance scores based in part on an analysis of user generated highlights performed by the highlighting service.

Consistent with an embodiment of the invention and in contrast to prior art methods for assessing document relevance the relevance of a document is determined by a potentially large group of users of the document. For example by highlighting a document a user is implicitly casting a vote for the document. Accordingly rather than determine document relevance based on the number of incoming links to a document which are controlled solely by the authors of documents document relevance is determined based on user generated highlights which can easily be generated by users of a highlighting service.

The foregoing description of various implementations of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not exhaustive and does not limit the invention to the precise form or forms disclosed. Furthermore it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the present invention may find practical application in a variety of alternative contexts that have not explicitly been addressed herein. Finally the illustrative processing steps performed by a computer implemented program e.g. instructions may be executed simultaneously or in a different order than described above and additional processing steps may be incorporated. The invention may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented partly in software the invention may be embodied as a set of instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The scope of the invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

