---

title: Multiple hearth furnace for reducing iron oxide
abstract: A multiple moving hearth furnace () having a furnace housing () with at least two moving hearths () positioned laterally within the furnace housing, the hearths moving in opposite directions and each moving hearth () capable of being charged with at least one layer of iron oxide and carbon bearing material at one end, and being capable of discharging reduced material at the other end. A heat insulating partition () is positioned between adjacent moving hearths of at least portions of the conversion zones (), and is capable of communicating gases between the atmospheres of the conversion zones of adjacent moving hearths. A drying/preheat zone (), a conversion zone (), and optionally a cooling zone () are sequentially positioned along each moving hearth () in the furnace housing ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08133299&OS=08133299&RS=08133299
owner: Nu-Iron Technology, LLC
number: 08133299
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071108
---
This application is a U.S. national stage application of International Application No. PCT US2007 084029 filed Nov. 8 2007 which claims priority from and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 866 237 filed Nov. 17 2006. The disclosures of both applications are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.

The present invention was made with support by the Economic Development Administration Grant No. 06 69 04501 and the Department of Energy Sponsor Award DE FG36 05G015185. The United States government may have certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to a system and method for producing metallic iron by thermally reducing an iron oxide with a carbon bearing reductant in a moving hearth furnace.

Many different iron ore reduction processes and furnaces have been described and or used in the past. These processes may be traditionally classified into direct reduction processes and smelting reduction processes. Generally direct reduction processes convert iron ores into a metallic form with for example use of shaft furnaces e.g. natural gas based shaft furnaces whereas smelting reduction converts iron ores into molten hot metal without the use of blast furnaces. The shaft furnace processes include the Midrex process where an iron oxide source is reduced in a furnace by blowing a reducing gas e.g. a natural gas through a tuyere disposed at a lower portion of the shaft furnace. A SL RN process is another example of a direct iron making process. In the SL RN process a carbon bearing material such as coal is used as the reducing agent and the carbon material is heated together with the iron oxide source e.g. iron ores in a rotary kiln to reduce the iron oxide source.

The conventional reduction processes for production of direct reduced iron DRI involve heating beneficiated iron ores to below the melting point of iron below 1200 C. 2372 F. either by gas based processes or coal based processes. For example in the gas based process direct reduction of iron oxide e.g. iron ores or iron oxide pellets employs the use of a reducing gas e.g. reformed natural gas to reduce the iron oxide and obtain DRI. Methods of making DRI have employed the use of materials that include carbon such as coal and coke as a reducing agent. A typical composition of DRI is 90 to 95 metallization and 2 4 gangue but has not been practical for use in steelmaking processes as a replacement of scrap because its oxygen and gangue content increases energy usage increase slag volume and necessitates the addition of costly reagents.

Natural gas based direct reduced iron accounts for over 90 of the world s production of DRI. Coal based processes are generally used in producing the remaining DRI production. However in many geographical regions the use of coal may be more desirable because coal prices may be more stable than natural gas prices. Further many geographical regions are far away from steel mills that use the processed product.

Another gas based or coal based reduction process for directly reducing iron bearing material to metallic nodules is often referred to as fusion reduction. Such fusion reduction processes for example generally involve the following processing steps feed preparation drying preheating reduction fusion melting cooling product discharge and metallic iron slag product separation. These processes result in direct reduction of iron bearing material to metallic iron nodules and slag. Metallic iron nodules produced by these direct reduction processes are characterized by high grade reduction nearing 100 metal e.g. about 96 to about 97 metallic Fe .Percents herein are percents by weight unless otherwise stated.

Unlike conventional direct reduced iron DRI these metallic iron nodules have low oxygen content because they are metallic iron and have little or no porosity. These metallic iron nodules are also low in gangue because silicon dioxide has been removed as slag. Such metallic iron nodules are desirable in many circumstances such as use in place of scrap in electric arc furnaces. These metallic iron nodules can be also produced from beneficiated taconite iron ore which may contain 30 oxygen and 5 gangue. As a result with such metallic iron nodules there is less volume to transport than with beneficiated taconite pellets or DRI. In addition generally such metallic iron nodules are just as easy to handle as taconite pellets and DRI.

Various types of hearth furnaces have been described and used for direct reduction of metallic iron nodules. One type of hearth furnace referred to as a rotary hearth furnace RHF has been used as a furnace for coal based direct reduction. An example of such a rotary hearth furnace is described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 443 931. Another type is the linear hearth furnace such as described in US 2005 229748.

Both the rotary hearth furnace and the linear hearth furnace involve making mixtures of carbon bearing material with iron ore or other iron oxide fines into balls briquettes or other compacts and heating them on a moving hearth furnace to reduce the iron oxide to metallic iron nodules and slag. Typically both the rotary and linear hearth furnaces are partitioned into a preheating zone a reduction zone a fusion zone and a cooling zone between the supply location and the discharge location of the furnace. In operation raw reducible material comprising a mixture of iron ore and reducing material is charged onto the moving hearth and moved into the preheat zone where the raw materials are dried and preheated. After preheating the iron ore mixture on the hearth is moved to the reduction zone where the iron ore is reduced in the presence of the reducing material and fused into metallic iron nodules using one or more heat sources e.g. gas burners . The reduced and fused product after completion of the reduction process is cooled in the cooling zone on the moving hearth preventing oxidation and facilitating discharge from the furnace.

A limitation of these furnaces and the methods of operating these furnaces in the past has been their energy efficiency. The iron oxide bearing material and associated carbon bearing material generally had to be heated in the furnace to about 2500 F. 1370 C. or higher to reduce the iron oxide and produce metallic iron material. The furnace generally required natural gas or coal to be burned to produce the heat necessary to heat the iron oxide bearing material and associated carbon bearing material to the high temperatures to reduce the iron oxide and produce a metallic iron material. Furthermore the reduction process involved production of volatiles in the furnace that had to remove from the furnace and secondarily combusted to avoid an environmental hazard which added to the energy needs to perform the iron reduction. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 390 810.

What has been needed is a furnace that reduces the energy consumption needed to reduce the iron oxide bearing material such that a large part if not all of the energy to heat the iron oxide bearing source to the temperature necessary to cause the iron oxide to be reduced to metallic iron and slag comes from combusting volatiles directly in the furnace itself and otherwise using heat generated in one part of the furnace in another part of the furnace. Such a furnace is described in Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 828 170 filed Oct. 4 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference. Still there is a need for a furnace that has a higher production capacity is more efficient in transferring fluids between different parts of the furnace and has a lower capital and operating cost for a given production capacity.

a. a furnace housing having at least two moving hearths positioned laterally within the furnace housing at least two of said hearths moving in opposite directions and each moving hearth capable of being charged with at least one layer of iron oxide source and carbon bearing material adjacent one end of the furnace housing and being capable of discharging reduced material adjacent the other end of the furnace housing 

b. each moving hearth capable of passing within the furnace housing sequentially through a drying preheat zone providing an atmosphere capable of drying an iron oxide source and carbon bearing material a conversion zone providing an atmosphere capable of fluidizing volatile material in the iron oxide source and at least partially reducing iron oxide and optionally a cooling zone capable of providing a cooling atmosphere for cooling reduced material containing metallic iron on the moving hearth positioned within the furnace housing 

c. a heat insulating partition positioned between adjacent moving hearths in at least portions of the conversion zones at least partially separating the atmospheres adjacent opposite sides of the partition and

d. at least one communication passageway capable of transferring fluid between the atmospheres of the conversion zones of moving hearths moving in opposite directions within the furnace housing.

Heat insulating partitions may also be provided between drying preheating zones and cooling zones of adjacent moving hearths. These heat insulating partitions may be an extension of the heat insulating partition between conversion zones of adjacent moving hearths.

A separation barrier may be positioned in at least a portion of the conversion zone of each moving hearth separating the conversion zone into a combustion region and a reducing region with the reducing region adjacent the moving hearth and the combustion region adjacent the reducing region and spaced from the moving hearth. In each moving hearth fluidized volatiles produced by heating the iron oxide source and carbon bearing material in the reducing region of a conversion zone are transferred through at least one passageway to the combustion region of the conversion zone of a moving hearth within the furnace housing moving in the opposite direction where the fluidized volatiles may be combusted to heat and at least partially reduce iron oxide on the moving hearth in the adjacent reducing region of the conversion zone without inhibiting contact of the combusted fluid with the iron oxide source in the reducing region.

Adjacent the conversion zone in each moving hearth and before the cooling zone if present may be a fusion zone providing an atmosphere capable of fusing iron oxide on each moving hearth into metallic iron nodules. Fluids produced in the fusion zone of one moving hearth may be transferred through at least one passageway to the combustion region of the conversion zone of a hearth moving in the opposite direction where the fluids may be combusted to heat and at least partially reduce iron oxide and carbon bearing material on the moving hearth in the adjacent reducing region of the conversion zone without inhibiting contact of the combusted fluid with the iron oxide source in the reducing region.

The multiple hearth furnace may also have a circulation system capable of circulating fluids between the atmospheres of the cooling zone of a moving hearth and the drying preheat zone of an adjacent moving hearths moving in an opposite direction within the furnace housing. These moving hearths moving in opposite directions may be positioned adjacent each other with only the heat insulating partition between them. In any event at least one passageway may be provided capable of transferring fluids between the atmospheres of the drying preheating and cooling zones of moving hearths moving in opposite directions within the furnace housing. Each moving hearth may be a continuous belt or be comprised of removable sections or hearth cars positioned end to end. The multiple hearth furnace may also have a drive system capable of causing each moving hearth to move through the furnace housing from a charging end to a discharging end of the furnace. The drive system may be hydraulic pneumatic gear or any other suitable drive.

Also the multiple hearth furnace may have a maintenance apparatus capable of receiving removable hearth sections from either end of the furnace housing and capable of returning removable hearth sections to either end of the furnace housing.

providing a furnace housing having at least two moving hearths positioned laterally therein where the moving hearths are formed of a plurality of removable hearth sections that move through the furnace housing 

causing in each moving hearth within the furnace housing hearth sections to sequentially move through a drying preheat zone providing an atmosphere capable of drying an iron oxide source and carbon bearing material a conversion zone providing an atmosphere capable of fluidizing volatile material in the iron oxide source and carbon bearing material and at least partially reduce iron oxide in the iron oxide source and optionally a cooling zone capable of providing a cooling atmosphere for cooling reduced iron and carbon bearing material on the moving hearth within the furnace housing 

providing a heat insulating partition positioned between the adjacent moving hearths in at least a portion of the conversion zones to at least partially separate the atmospheres on opposite sides of the partition 

charging at least one layer of iron oxide source and carbon bearing material to the moving hearth sections at one end of each moving hearth 

moving the charged iron oxide source and carbon bearing material on removable hearth sections as at least two separate hearths moving through the furnace housing in opposite directions 

drying and preheating the charged iron oxide source and carbon bearing material on the removable hearth sections in the drying preheating zone of each moving hearth 

fluidizing volatiles from the charged iron oxide source and carbon bearing material on the moving hearth sections of each moving hearth in the conversion zone within the furnace housing 

transferring fluidized volatiles from the atmosphere of the conversion zone of one moving hearth to the atmosphere of the conversion zone of a moving hearth moving in the opposite direction within the furnace housing 

combusting the transferred fluidized volatiles within the conversion zone of a moving hearth moving in the opposite direction within the furnace housing to heat the iron oxide source and carbon bearing material on removable hearth sections moving through the conversion zone and

optionally cooling the reduced iron on the removable hearth sections in a cooling zone of the moving hearth.

The method may be used to produce metallic iron nodules and slag by positioning in each moving hearth within the furnace housing a fusion zone providing an atmosphere capable of at least partially fusing reduced iron into metallic iron nodules adjacent the conversion zone and before the cooling zone if provided. Alternatively the method may be used to produce DRI material which contain metallic iron and typically between 2 and 4 gangue.

The method may further comprise the step of circulating gas between the atmospheres of a cooling zone of a moving hearth and a drying preheat zone of an adjacent moving hearth within the furnace housing.

The method of producing iron from iron oxide may further comprise transferring a selected removable hearth section from either end of the moving hearth to a maintenance track and transferring the selected removable hearth section from the maintenance track back to either end of the moving hearth.

The foregoing and other aspects will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Shown in the FIGURES is a multiple moving hearth furnace . At least two moving hearths are positioned laterally to one another within furnace housing of furnace . The drawings show embodiments with two moving hearths positioned laterally adjacent each other within furnace housing and moving in opposite directions through furnace housing . However the multiple hearth moving hearth furnace can include any number of similar moving hearths and may or may not be in multiples of two.

Referring to a hearth furnace is shown for producing metallic iron nodules directly from iron ore and other iron oxide sources. Alternatively the furnace may be used to produce DRI. The furnace has a furnace housing internally lined with a refractory material suitable to withstand the temperatures involved in the direct reduction process carried out in the furnace. Each moving hearth in furnace housing of hearth furnace is divided into a drying preheat zone capable of providing a drying preheating atmosphere for reducible material a conversion zone capable of providing a reducing atmosphere for at least partially reducing reducible material a fusion zone capable of providing an atmosphere to at least partially form metallic iron nodules and optionally a cooling zone capable of providing a cooling atmosphere for reduced material containing metallic iron material.

The conversion zone is positioned between the drying preheat zone and the fusion zone . The conversion zone is the zone in which volatiles from the reducible material including carbon bearing material is fluidized as well as the zone in which at least the initial reduction of reducible iron oxide material occurs. The entry end of each moving hearth at the drying preheat zone is closed by a restricting baffle that inhibits fluid flow between the outside ambient atmosphere and the atmosphere of the drying preheat zone yet provides clearance so as not to inhibit the movement of reducible material into the furnace housing . The baffle may be made of suitable refractory material or a metal material if the temperatures are sufficiently low.

Each moving hearth may be a plurality of removable hearth sections or cars positioned to move through the furnace housing as part of the moving hearth as shown in . Hearth cars are moved on wheels which typically engage railroad rails . The upper portion of the hearth cars are lined with a refractory material suitable to withstand the temperatures for reduction of the iron oxide bearing material into metallic iron as explained herein. The removable hearth cars are positioned contiguously end to end to move through the furnace housing and curb with a sand seal are positioned along opposite sides of each hearth car . The curbs are shaped to move in refractory portions on the opposite sides of each moving hearth . The sand seal is comprised of trough containing sand in the furnace housing on opposite sides of each moving hearth and knife seal extending downwardly from opposite sides of each hearth car to engage the sand in the trough as the hearth car moves through the furnace housing as part of moving hearth . By this assembly the lower portions of the furnace housing and the lower portions of the hearth cars are protected from damage from the heat generated in the furnace as the process of reducing iron oxide bearing material into metallic iron proceeds. Alternatively each moving hearth may be a movement belt or other suitable conveyance medium that with the refractory material described below is able to within the high temperatures of the furnace atmospheres as described below.

One end of each moving hearth is a charging end and the other end is a discharging end . The charging end of one moving hearth may be positioned adjacent the discharging end of an adjacent moving hearth as shown in . Outside the furnace housing at the charging ends of each moving hearth the reducible material is positioned on the hearth cars by a charging system not shown generally in the form of a mixture of finely divided iron ore or other iron oxide bearing material and a carbon bearing material such as coke char anthracite coal or non caking bituminous and sub bituminous coal. The reducible material is in mixtures of finely divided iron oxide bearing material that are formed into compacts. The compacts may be preformed as briquettes or balls or formed in situ as mounds on the hearth cars so that the mixtures of reducible material are presented in discrete portions on the hearth cars in each moving hearth . Also a hearth layer of finely divided carbon bearing material such as coke char or coal may be provided on the hearth cars with the reducible material positioned on the hearth layer to avoid damage to the refractory material forming the upper portion of the hearth cars from the slag generated on reducing the metallic iron in the furnace.

Each moving hearth in furnace housing may be linear as generally illustrated in . In this connection the building in which the furnace is housed or other considerations may require that certain parts of the furnace be arcuate or at angles to accommodate these needs. For these purposes the hearth furnace is classified as linear if a part of its length usually the conversion zone is substantially linear in the direction of travel of each moving hearth .

The zones of each moving hearth are generally characterized by the temperature reached in each zone. In the drying preheat zone moisture is generally driven off from the reducible material and the reducible material is heated to a temperature short of substantial fluidizing of volatiles in and associated with the reducible material positioned on the hearth cars . The design is to reach in the drying preheat atmosphere a cut off temperature in the reducible material just short of significant volatilization of carbon bearing material in and associated with the reducible material. This temperature is generally somewhere in the range of about 300 600 F. 150 315 C. depending in part on the particular composition of the reducible material.

The conversion zone of each moving hearth is characterized by heating the reducible material first to drive off remaining moisture and a majority of the volatiles in the reducible material and then to initiate the reduction process in forming the reducible material into metallic iron material and slag. The conversion zone is generally characterized by heating the reducible material to about 1500 to 2100 F. 815 to 1150 C. depending on the particular composition and form of reducible material.

The fusion zone of each moving hearth involves further heating the reducible material now absent a majority of volatile materials and commencing reduction of reducible iron oxide to fuse into metallic iron nodules and slag. The fusion zone generally involves heating the reducible material to about 2400 to 2550 F. 1315 1400 C. or higher so that metallic iron nodules are formed with only a low percentage of iron oxide in the metallic iron. If the process is carried out efficiently there will also be a low percentage of iron oxide in the slag since the process is designed to reduce very high percentage of the iron oxide in the reducible material to metallic iron.

The heating of the reducible material in the conversion zone and fusion zone of each moving heath may be done by oxy fuel burners in the roof and or side wall of the furnace housing adjacent each moving hearth . The oxy fuel burners may be positioned on about 10 foot centers about 3 m along outside side walls about a foot down from the roof of the furnace housing . Alternatively or in addition the oxy fuel burners may be positioned in the roof of the furnace housing at each moving hearth . In any case the oxy fuel burners are positioned to provide for efficient combustion of the fluidized volatile materials in the conversion zone as described in detail below and to efficiently reduce the reducible material to metallic iron nodules in fusion zone . The oxy fuel burners should be positioned to provide for efficient heat transfer and efficient reduction of the iron oxide in the reducible material in each moving hearth with the least energy consumption. In addition oxygen lances may be positioned in the roof of the furnace housing of the conversion zone and the fusion zone to provide additional energy for generation of heat and reduction conversion into metallic iron nodules in the furnace.

In each moving hearth the metallic iron material is cooled in cooling zone from its formation temperature in the conversion zone and or fusion zone to a temperature at which the metallic iron material can be reasonably handled and further processed. This temperature is generally below 800 F. 425 C. and more typically about 550 F. 290 C. or below. Water spray may be used for the cooling in or beyond the cooling zone if desired where provision made for water handling in the system. Typically the temperature of the material on the moving hearth after cooling in and after the cooling zone is about 300 to 600 F. 150 315 C. depending on the design of the cooling system.

Shown in a separation barrier may be positioned in the conversion zone in each moving hearth separating the conversion zone into reducing region adjacent the moving hearth and combustion region adjacent the reducing region and spaced from the moving hearth . In one embodiment the separation barrier may be comprised of closed spaced pipes e.g. 2 foot on centers about 0.6 m positioned transverse between side walls at each moving hearth and supporting a plate or grate as shown in . The plate or grate may be made of silicon carbide or another suitable refractory ceramic material. Separation barrier may also have intermediately along its length and at its end gaps and respectively. The gaps are typically positioned to facilitate flow of the fluidized volatile material from the reducible material in the reducing region to the combustion region of the conversion zone for efficient combustion of the volatiles to produce heat that can be transferred to the reducing region and reducible material in the reducing region of the conversion zone of each moving hearth . To provide for this flow from the reducing region to the combustion region in each moving hearth a fluid flow is created through the atmosphere of the reducing region in the direction of travel of each moving hearth and in a part of the combustion region in a direction counter to the direction of movement of each moving hearth through the furnace housing .

Alternatively or in addition to gaps and the separation barrier may be perforated as with a grate for example or otherwise discontinuous to allow for efficient flow of fluidized volatile material from the reducing region into the combustion region of the conversion zone . To provide for efficient flow of the volatile material fluidized in the reducing region into the combustion region of the conversion zone the separation barrier may also ascend upwardly in the direction of movement of the hearth through the furnace . Such an ascending separation barrier where the separation barrier is angled as described in application Ser. No. 60 828 170 filed Oct. 4 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference. Alternatively the separation barrier may be provided in ascending steps to facilitate construction of an ascending separation barrier in sections along the furnace housing . In any case the separation barrier is ascending to allow for increased volume of fluidized volatile material in the reducing region as the temperature increases in the reducible material with the hearth moving the reducible material through the conversion zone of the furnace.

In any case the separation barrier in each moving hearth may be of a heat conductive material capable of conducting the heat generated in the combustion region to the reducing region to reduce the reducible material positioned on the moving hearth or heat radiating material capable of absorbing heat form the combustion of the fluidized volatile material in the combustion region and radiating heat into the reducing region to reduce the reducible material or both. As noted each separation barrier may be made of silicon carbide or other such higher heat conductive refractory material.

At the charging end of each moving hearth each removable hearth section or car is charged by the charging system typically with a first hearth layer of a finer carbon bearing material such as coke char or coal and then a second layer of a mixture of iron oxide and carbon bearing material. The mixture of the second layer may also comprise additives such as lime and fluorspar. The mixture of iron oxide and carbon bearing material may be comprised of preformed compacts e.g. briquettes or compacts formed in situ on the hearth layer. An overlayer of a coarse carbon bearing material such as coke char or coal may also be provided over the second layer as described in application Ser. No. 60 820 366 filed Jul. 26 2006 and incorporated herein by reference.

To provide for the flow of fluids in the combustion region of the conversion zone a first baffle is provided between drying preheat zone and conversion zone in each moving hearth . This first baffle is capable of inhibiting direct fluid communication between the atmosphere of the conversion zone and the atmosphere of the drying preheat zone . First baffle may be made of a suitable refractory material such as silicon carbide and may extend downwardly to within a few inches of the reducible material on the hearth . The design is to provide for efficient inhibiting of the direct fluids communication between the conversion zone and the drying preheat zone in the furnace without interfering with movement of reducible material on hearth through furnace housing .

In each the moving hearth first communication passageway may be also provided and capable of carrying fluids from the combustion region of the conversion zone to the drying preheat zone . The first communication passageway may be a chamber or chambers laterally positioned in the side wall s of the furnace housing with a double refractory wall or ducting which extends through the side wall s of the furnace housing .

The inlet to first communication passageway is located to provide for efficient combustion of the fluidized volatile material in combustion region and to efficiently move the combusted fluids from the combustion region . The flow through first communication passageway also is to facilitate flow of volatile fluids from the reducing region to the combustion region in each moving hearth to provide flow of the fluidized volatile material within the reducing region in the direction of travel of moving hearth through the furnace housing and to provide for flow of the fluidized volatile material and combusted fluids through the combustion region counter to the direction of travel of said moving hearth through the furnace housing to facilitate flow from the outlet of the first communication passageway . A damper not shown may also be provided in first communication passageway so that the flow through drying preheat zone from outlet can be coordinated with the flow through gas circulation system between the drying preheat zone and the cooling zone as described below. The damper in first communication passageway may thus restrict flow to the drying preheat zone and may be provided with a diverter to an exhaust stack if desired or to a heat exchanger not shown for recovery of additional heat from the combusted fluids.

In each moving hearth for efficient use of the transported fluids in the drying preheat zone and to provide for efficient heat transfer in drying preheating the reducible material a process fan is provided with its inlet adjacent the entrance baffle of the reducible material on the hearth cars into the furnace . The outlet of first communication passageway is provided adjacent the first baffle and near the reducible material to provide for efficient use of the fluid flow from passageway in drying and preheating the reducible material in drying preheat zone . To provide flow of the fluid through drying preheat zone counter to the movement of the hearth through the furnace housing a generally horizontal baffle may extend from first baffle into the drying preheat zone to direct flow of the fluid from outlet of first communication passageway through the drying preheat zone to efficiently transfer heat from the transported fluid to dry and preheat the reducible material on the moving hearth .

The temperature of the combusted fluids through first communication passageway associated with each moving hearth is generally too high for effective use of the drying preheat zone . For this reason a temperature controller is positioned in first communication passageway and is capable of controlling the temperature of the fluid flowing from the combustion region of the conversion zone to the drying preheat zone . The temperature controller may cool the fluid transported through first communication passageway by mixing with a cooling gas such as tempering air or nitrogen transported from cooling zone . Alternatively the temperature controller may be in the form of a heat exchanger capable of controlling the temperature of the fluid flowing through first communication passageway by extracting and recovering heat from the fluid flow in the first communication passageway . The extracted and recovered heat may be transferred to a secondary fluid in the heat exchanger and transferred by a duct to a heater not shown capable of heating gas supplied to the burners in the combustion region and the fusion zone or the gas supplied to burners may be heated directly in heat exchanger .

In each moving hearth second baffle is provided either between conversion zone and fusion zone or part way into fusion zone . Each second baffle is capable of inhibiting direct fluid communication between the atmospheres of the part of the fusion zone downstream of the baffle to the atmosphere of the conversion zone . Each second baffle may be a refractory material such as silicon carbide and extend to within a few inches of the reducible material positioned on the hearth as it moves through the furnace housing to effectively inhibit the direct fluid communication across the second baffle .

With each moving hearth a second communication passageway is also provided capable of carrying fluid from the downstream part of the combustion region of the conversion zone and or fusion zone of the moving hearth to the upstream part of the combustion region of the conversion zone adjacent the first baffle of adjacent hearth moving in the opposite direction. The interconnection of the passageway between adjacent moving hearths with the furnace housing is shown in . The inlet to second communication passageway is positioned in fusion zone downstream of second baffle to provide flow of fluid through the fusion zone counter to the travel of the hearth through fusion zone to the combustion region of the conversion zone of a hearth moving in the opposite direction. This provides for efficient transfer of the heat in reducing and melting of the metallic iron material in the fusion zone . For this purpose a horizontal baffle of refractory material may extend from second baffle downstream into the fusion zone to facilitate the counter current flow of fluid through the fusion zone and avoid turbulence in the vicinity of the reducible material as it passes under second baffle . The outlets from second communication passageway into the combustion region of conversion zone of the adjacent moving hearth provide for efficient transfer of heat from the fluids in the fusion zone to the combustion region of the adjacent moving hearth for their efficient use in combusting fluidized volatile material and produce heat assist in reducing the reducible material in the reducing region of the adjacent moving hearth .

In each moving hearth a cooling zone is optional since it may be desired in certain embodiments to perform the cooling of the metallic iron material outside the furnace housing to reduce furnace costs and other considerations. Alternatively a third baffle may be provided between the fusion zone and the cooling zone of each moving hearth . Each third baffle is capable of inhibiting direct fluid communication between the atmosphere of at least part of the cooling zone and the atmosphere of the fusion zone . Each third baffle may be made of a refractory material such as silicon carbide and may extend to within a few inches of the reducible material positioned on the moving hearth as reducible material moves through each moving hearth . The third baffle provides for efficient movement of fluid through the atmosphere of cooling zone counter to the direction of travel of each moving hearth . Horizontal baffle also of refractory material extends from third baffle into cooling zone to assist in inhibiting direct communication between the atmosphere of cooling zone and the atmosphere of fusion zone and to avoid turbulence in the vicinity of the material on the moving hearth cars as they pass under the third baffle .

The exit end of the hearth furnace at the cooling zone is closed by a restricting baffle that inhibits fluid flow between the outside ambient atmosphere and the atmosphere of the cooling zone yet provides clearance so as not to inhibit the movement of reducible material out the furnace housing . The baffle may be made of a suitable refractory material or a metal material if the temperatures are sufficiently low.

Heat insulating partition is positioned between adjacent moving hearths in at least portions of the conversion zones at least partially separating the atmospheres adjacent opposite sides of the partition . Since there no partition between the adjacent moving hearths in the drying preheat zones and the cooling zones the heat extracted in the cooling zone can be directly transferred to the drying preheat zone of the adjacent moving hearth . However vertical baffles of ceramic or other material suitable for the temperatures involved are positioned between the drying preheat zones and the cooling zones with perforations or like adjacent to curbs to direct the flow of fluids from the cooling zone through the drying preheat zone . Horizontal baffle of refractory material extends from vertical baffle into the cooling zone and horizontal baffle extends from first vertical baffle to assist in directing flow adjacent the material on the moving hearths through the cooling zone and the drying preheat zone .

As shown in the gas circulation system transfers the heated gas from the cooling zone of each moving hearth to the drying preheat zone of the adjacent moving hearth where the hot fluids dry and initially heat the reducible and carbon bearing materials on the removable hearth sections to drive off residual moisture in the materials preheating those materials to about 260 C. 500 F. . Fan blower recirculates the hot gas exiting the cooling zone through conduit and heat exchanger where a cooling source such as water or air not shown cools the hot gas. Cooled gas from heat exchange is then circulated by blower fan through gas conduit through inlet to the drying preheat zone under horizontal baffle . From drying preheat zone the gas circulation system circulates cooled gas into the cooling zone through perforations in vertical baffle under horizontal baffle to provide cold gas to cool the reduced iron nodules and related materials in the cooling zone as shown in . As needed nitrogen gas is added to the gas circulation system through makeup conduit to keep the gas circulation system fully charged.

Inlet horizontal baffles and and perforations in vertical baffles are positioned to provided for efficient circulation for drying and preheating the reducible material and associated carbon bearing material on the moving hearth in the drying preheat zone and for efficient cooling of the iron nodules and associated materials on the adjacent moving hearth in the cooling zone . The circulation of gas by gas circulation system through the drying preheat zone and the cooling zone is also coordinated with flow of combusted and cooled gases from the combustion region of conversion zone through communication passageway and heat exchanger and exiting through fan to provide for efficient drying and preheating in drying preheat zone .

Each charging end and discharging end of each moving hearth includes a hearth transfer system such as turntable . After each removable hearth section exits the discharging end of a moving hearth all or part of the contents of the removable hearth section are removed by any suitable a discharge system at the discharge end such as a conveyor. It may be beneficial to keep all or part of the hearth layer on the hearth section or car to facilitate refilling the hearth section for reentry into the adjacent moving hearth of furnace . Next the hearth sections are decoupled moved onto the turntable the turntable moved to orient the rails A to the rails of the adjacent moving hearth and the hearth section moved onto the rails of the adjacent moving hearth at the charging end . Note that this transfer by the hearth transfer system can be done in groups of two or more hearth sections depending on the capacity of the turntable . In any case at the charging end of the adjacent moving hearth the hearth sections are recoupled end to end with other hearth sections or cars and a charging system such as a conveyor refills the removable hearth sections or cars with a at least one layer of the mixture of iron oxide and carbon bearing material and the overlayer of carbon bearing material as described above. The charging at the charging end may involve filling the hearth section with a hearth layer first if the hearth layer was not carried over from the previous discharge at the discharge end . In any case the mixture of iron oxide source and carbon bearing material may in the form of preformed discrete pieces such as briquettes or balls of iron oxide and carbon bearing material or discrete portions or mounds formed in situ.

The hearth transfer system includes turntable having sections of rails A which can match to rails connecting to either the discharging end of one moving hearth or the charging end of an adjacent moving hearth . The turntable may be separately driven to move the heath sections or cars into position with the rails A under the hearth cars matching the rails of one moving hearth being serviced. As is apparent for the design of turntable more than two moving hearths through the furnace housing of furnace can be serviced at the hearth transfer system at either end of the furnace housing .

As shown in a hearth maintenance system may also be provided to permit removal of removable hearth sections from the moving hearth for maintenance or repair. The hearth maintenance system comprises sections of rails that can connect to the hearth transfer systems through turntable at the charging end and the discharging end of each moving hearth . Thus any removable hearth section can be removed from the hearth transfer system as desired at either end of the multiple hearth movable hearth furnace and transferred to the hearth maintenance system . In addition a removable hearth section can be transferred from the hearth maintenance system to the hearth transfer systems at either charging end or the discharging end of the multiple hearth movable hearth furnace . The hearth maintenance system allows removable hearth sections to be removed from the moving hearths and to be reintroduced to the moving hearths without interrupting the operation of the moving hearth furnace .

In an alternate embodiment shown in the heat insulating partition extends between the drying preheat zone of one moving hearth and the cooling zone of the adjacent moving hearth . In this embodiment the hot inert gas flows from the cooling zone to the adjacent drying preheat zone due to a pressure drop induced by fan blower . With this embodiment as shown in the cooling zone of one moving hearth is interconnected with the drying preheat zone of an adjacent moving hearth by conduit such that the residual heat in the hot materials on the removable hearth sections existing the fusion zone may be used to dry and preheat the just charged materials in the removable hearth sections of the adjacent moving hearth .

Referring to the gas circulation system is again provided to circulate the atmosphere from the cooling zone of the moving hearth to the drying preheat zone of the adjacent moving hearth . Gas circulation system may be filled with an inert gas such as nitrogen which is recirculated by a fan blower . Because of the high temperature of the removable hearth sections and the hot materials thereon the non oxidizing nitrogen atmosphere inhibits if not eliminates re oxidation of the reduced iron nodules and ignition of the remaining carbon bearing materials.

As previously explained the charging system not shown at charging end may be operated to refill each moving hearth car with a layer of fine carbon bearing material such as char or coal on each removable hearth section then at least one layer of mixed iron oxide and carbon bearing material on the hearth layer and then an overlayer of coarse carbon bearing material such as char or coal. After the materials are placed on each removable hearth section or car the removable hearth sections are pushed into and through moving hearth by pushers not shown . In one embodiment reciprocal hydraulic cylinders may be provided that are coordinated such that while one cylinder is extending and pushing on one removable hearth section into a moving hearth the other cylinder is retracting to a starting position to be ready to push the next removable hearth section into the same moving hearth . As a result by coordinated motion of the cylinders the removable hearth sections are continually moved through each moving hearth .

Upon exiting the cooling zone the removable hearth sections enter the discharge system at discharging end . The removed material may be transferred to a classifier system not shown that classifies the removed material by at least one of size weight and density into reduced iron nodules coarse carbon bearing material e.g. 6 mesh slag and fine carbon bearing material e.g. 6 mesh . The classified carbon bearing material is transferred back for re use by the charging system at charging end for the hearth layer or overlayer charged on the removable hearth section . The reduced iron nodules are removed as final product and the slag may be removed as a waste product.

It is seen from the description of the detailed embodiments that the present invention provides a multiple moving hearth furnace that has a higher production capacity is more efficient in transferring fluids between different parts of the furnace and has a lower capital and operating cost for a given production capacity. Specifically the production capacity of the furnace is at least twice the capacity of a moving hearth furnace have only one moving hearth. Fluids can be rapidly and efficiently transferred between different points in the conversion zone and fusion zone of adjacent moving hearths moving in opposite directions with minimum heat lose in the transfer. Further the heat generated in the cooling zone in cooling the material after the reduction can be directly used in drying preheating charged reducible material and carbon bearing materials in the drying preheat zone of an adjacent moving hearth. Also the residual heat in the removable hearth sections or cars after discharge at the discharge end can be efficiently used in the reduction operation of the furnace since the hearth sections or cars can be immediate reloaded and returned to operation in the furnace in the adjacent moving hearth . Finally the capital and operating costs for a given production capacity are substantially reduced since only one furnace housing and hearth furnace needs to be built and maintained. The invention may thus be practiced in other embodiments within the scope of the following claims.

