---

title: Systems and methods for scheduling contact center agents
abstract: Systems and methods for scheduling contact center agents are provided. In this regard, a representative method includes: receiving information corresponding to work schedules and skills of agents of a remote contact center that shares contacts with a local contact center; correlating the skills with skills that are to be used for scheduling agents of the local contact center; and generating work schedules for the agents of the local contact center based, at least in part, on a correlation between the skills of the agents of the remote contact center and the local contact center, and an evaluation of the work schedules of the agents of the remote contact center.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07660407&OS=07660407&RS=07660407
owner: Verint Americas Inc.
number: 07660407
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070626
---
This application is a continuation application that claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Utility Application having Ser. No. 11 540 451 which was filed Sep. 29 2006 and U.S. Provisional Applications having Ser. Nos. 60 816 785 and 60 817 680 which were filed on Jun. 27 2006 and Jun. 30 2006 respectively each of the aforementioned applications being incorporated by reference herein.

Resource allocation and planning including the generation of schedules for employees is a complex problem for enterprises. Telephone call center resource allocation and scheduling is an example of a problem with a large number of variables. Variables include contact volume at a particular time of day available staff skills of various staff members call type e.g. new order call and customer service call and number of call queues where a call queue may be assigned a particular call type. A basic goal of call center scheduling is to minimize the cost of agents available to answer calls while maximizing service.

Traditionally call center scheduling is performed by forecasting incoming contact volumes and estimating average talk times for each time period based on past history and other measures. These values are then correlated to produce a schedule. However due to the number of variables that may affect the suitability of a schedule many schedules need to be evaluated.

Recently call centers have evolved into contact centers in which the agent s contact with the customer can be through many contact media. For example a multi contact center may handle telephone email web callback web chat fax and voice over internet protocol. Therefore in addition to variation in the types of calls e.g. service call order call modem contact centers have the complication of variation in contact media. The variation in contact media adds complexity to the agent scheduling process. Additional complexity results when multiple geographically distributed contact center sites are involved.

Systems and methods for scheduling contact center agents are provided. In this regard an exemplary embodiment of such a method comprises receiving information corresponding to work schedules and skills of agents of a remote contact center that shares contacts with a local contact center correlating the skills with skills that are to be used for scheduling agents of the local contact center and generating work schedules for the agents of the local contact center based at least in part on a correlation between the skills of the agents of the remote contact center and the local contact center and an evaluation of the work schedules of the agents of the remote contact center.

An exemplary embodiment of a system for scheduling contact center agents comprises a data import system and a scheduling system. The data import system is operative to receive information corresponding to work schedules and skills of agents of a remote contact center that shares contacts with a local contact center. The scheduling system is operative to generate work schedules for the agents of the local contact center based at least in part on a correlation between the skills of the agents of the remote contact center and the local contact center and an evaluation of the work schedules for the agents of the remote contact center.

Other systems methods features and or advantages of the present invention will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and or advantages be included within this description and protected by the accompanying claims.

Systems and methods for scheduling contact center agents are provided. In this regard current workforce optimization WFO solutions can potentially provide planning forecasting scheduling and tracking and performance analysis services for customers who have full control over contact center work load as well as resources e.g. agents available to handle this work load. The typical implementation of such a solution is a centralized system with a single database deployed on premises. However this approach is changing due to outsourcing.

For contact centers that share contacts across their own sites and outsourced sites through percent allocation or virtual routing outsourcing of contact center activities e.g. scheduling of agents and agent handling of contacts tends to distribute control from a single local contact center to multiple other remote contact centers. As control over these activities is divested from the local contact center the ability of the local contact center to plan efficient agent staffing and scheduling can be degraded.

Currently in order to compensate for lack of information and control involving work resources available at remote contact centers a customer may attempt to model the resources available at the remote sites within the customer s system. However such a customer typically does not have full information about the resources available e.g. skills of the agents at the remote sites or schedules thereby reducing the accuracy of planning.

In order to alleviate these difficulties at least some embodiments of the systems for scheduling contact center agents among geographically distributed sites involve the use of a distributed set of servers. That is instead of operating only a centralized database and application server at the local site in some embodiments at least one server is deployed at each of the remote outsourcer sites in addition to a server being deployed at the local site. The servers are used to implement workforce manager applications that are used to generate agent schedules for staffing the respective contact centers. Additionally the servers located at the remote sites are used to export information relating to their scheduled agents with the information being imported to the server of the local site. The local server then uses the information for facilitating efficient planning for use of the local contact center resources.

Referring to the drawings is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment of a system for scheduling contact center agents. In this regard system incorporates a local contact center . The local contact center has access to various resources including a staff of agents that is used to interact with customers who communicate with the local contact center. It should be noted that interactions between an agent and a customer can be facilitated through the use of various media. By way of example interactions can take place via telephone such as via telephone voice over Internet Protocol VoIP email such as via workstation and chat for example with such communication taking place via network .

System also includes remote contact centers and each of which is geographically distributed with respect to local contact center . Each of these contact centers is able to communicate information to the local contact center and or receive information from the local contact center via the network. In particular communication of information between the remote contact centers and the local contact center can enable the local contact center to effectively utilize its staff of agents as will be described in detail below. It should be noted that although two remote contact centers are depicted in various other numbers of such contact centers can be provided in other embodiments.

In block the skills communicated by the information are correlated with skills that are to be used for scheduling agents of the local contact center. In some embodiments such as when the scheduling system used to provide the skills information is compatible e.g. identical with the scheduling system being used by the local contact center the correlation of information can be performed automatically. In other embodiments such correlation may be performed manually or in a semi automated manner as will be described in greater detail later.

In block work schedules for the agents of the local contact center are generated. Specifically the work schedules are based at least in part on a correlation between the skills of the agents of the remote contact center and the local contact center and an evaluation of the work schedules of the agents of the remote contact center.

System also includes remote contact centers and each of which typically is geographically distributed with respect to local contact center . Each of the remote contact centers is able to communicate information to the local contact center and or receive information from the local contact center via network . Notably each of the remote contact centers has access to various resources including a staff of agents that is used to interact with customers. In some embodiments contacts are distributed among the local and remote contact centers via percent allocation or virtual routing for example.

Notably each of the remote contact centers and the local contact center typically is responsible for staffing and scheduling of its respective staff of agents. In this regard each of the remote contact centers typically schedules its staff based on general contact handling requirements that are communicated to the remote contact center through an outsourcing agreement with the local contact center in the form of forecasted requirements. In contrast the local contact center uses more specific information obtained from the remote contact centers in order to facilitate staffing and scheduling of its agents as will be described in greater detail below.

In operation workforce management system is able to communicate forecasted requirements such as agent requirements workload to be handled and specific schedules to be staffed to one or more of the remote contact centers. It should be noted that in some embodiments the remote contact centers need not be provided with forecasted requirements. Regardless the remote contact centers generate work schedules for their agents such as by using other potentially disparate workforce management systems e.g. remote contact center uses workforce management system . Once generated information related to the generated schedules is communicated to the local contact center via the network such as by each of the remote contact centers exporting a file containing the information. By way of example in the embodiment of remote contact center communicates export file to the integration system of local contact center .

In this regard is a flowchart illustrating functionality or method steps that can be performed by an embodiment of a remote contact center. As shown in the functionality may be construed as beginning at block in which schedules for agents of the remote contact center are generated. In block information related to the schedules is exported.

In some embodiments a schedule export adapter of a workforce management system of the remote contact center is used to prepare and export information related to the schedules. In particular the information can include one or more of the following a list of agents skills of the agents and generated work schedules for the agents. The information then can be communicated such as in a selected file format to the local contact center via the network.

In some embodiments a schedule export adapter includes the following configuration items location of export file e.g. an edit box can specify the location of the export file an agent filter e.g. a drop down menu item that contains a list used to determine which agent schedules are to be exported and a timer setting e.g. a box used to specify how often a file should be exported for example every 30 minutes .

Once configured the schedule export adapter can place a file containing the agents skills and schedules in the specified location. Notably the schedules contain the activities that each agent is scheduled to perform.

It should be noted that various file types and arrangements of data can be used to provide the information to the local contact center. In this regard is a diagram illustrating an embodiment of a file in this case an XML file that can be exported by a workforce management system of a remote contact center and which includes such information.

As shown in the file includes an employee list that is delineated by organization . Within each organization is a list of agents. Included with each agent is information corresponding to the agent s name and as well as additional information. This additional information includes a work schedule and skills of the agent .

An integration system of the local contact center includes an schedule import adapter that is used to extract information from the files exported from the remote contact centers. An embodiment of such an adapter can include the location of the import file e.g. an edit box to specify the location of a file that was exported activity and skill maps and the name of the organization in which schedules associated with the export file should be placed on the local system.

In this regard is a diagram illustrating a representative screen that can be used to perform activity mapping. Specifically such a screen can be used to specify the name of an activity on the workforce management system of the local contact center that corresponds to an activity listed in the exported file. This may be necessary as the remote contact center may use different names for their activities than those used by the local contact center. By way of example screen incorporates a Name field that lists names of activities from the exported file. A Mapped Activity field is used to designate correspondence between activities from the exported file and activity names used by the local contact center. By way of example field includes an activity entitled Personal Day that is mapped to a corresponding mapped activity entitled CKA. Thus each instance of a Personal Day activity discovered in the exported file will be recognized as a CKA activity by the local contact center for scheduling purposes.

In order to use the file exported by a remote contact center some embodiments incorporate the use of a dialog box associated with the workforce management system. In this regard is a diagram illustrating a representative dialog box that can be used in importing of such information.

As shown in a user designates an organization from which information is to be imported. This is accomplished by entering an organization name in field . A date range also is entered in the fields and with the range designating a scheduling period of interest.

Responsive to actuating the import actuator the schedule import adapter parses the imported file and creates staffing profiles. These staffing profiles include agent skills and schedules. is a diagram illustrating a representative screen associated with a staffing profile. As shown in schedules of four agents of a remote contact center Outsourcers are shown.

Since each of the agents of the remote contact center has an established schedule and corresponding skills scheduling of agents of the local contact center can be generated using this knowledge. That is the staffing profiles are considered as counting towards service levels when scheduling or simulating by the local contact center. Thus more effective scheduling of the local contact center agents can be accomplished.

It should be noted that in this embodiment the schedules for the agents of the remote contact centers are locked. That is regardless of the schedules determined for the agents of the local contact center the schedules of the agents of the remote contact center are not altered. However in some embodiments the schedules of the agents of the remote contact centers can be unlocked thus allowing scheduling determinations from the local contact center to influence the schedules of the remote contact center agents.

More information on various aspects of multi site contact centers can be found for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 385 499 filed on Mar. 21 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The processing device can be a hardware device for executing software particularly software stored in memory. The processing device can be a custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU or an auxiliary processor among several processors a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions.

The memory can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory as well as various other components can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processing device. Additionally the memory can include an operating system as well as instructions associated with various subsystems such as a forecasting system which can be used to provide forecasted requirements a scheduling system which can be used to generate agent schedules and an integration system which can be used to receive information regarding agents of a remote contact center.

It should be noted that a system component embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system.

When the computer is in operation the processing device is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the system pursuant to the software. Software in memory in whole or in part is read by the processing device perhaps buffered and then executed.

It should be noted that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of implementations that may be configured using software. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

It should be noted that any of the executable instructions such as those depicted functionally in the accompanying flowcharts can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium could include an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . In addition the scope of the certain embodiments of this disclosure can include embodying the functionality described in logic embodied in hardware or software configured media.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

