---

title: Treatment method for MMP-implicated pathologies
abstract: A treatment method for pathologies in which increased levels of MMP production are implicated in pathogenesis. Examples of such pathologies include pterygium, kerataconus, and macular degeneration. Treatment is based on administration of cysteamine in therapeutically effective amounts. Treatment may be in one of several alternative forms, including eye drops and oral applications. Administration in the form of eye drops may be preferred for pathologies affecting the eyes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07652070&OS=07652070&RS=07652070
owner: 
number: 07652070
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070402
---
The present invention was made with support from the National Institutes of Health. Consequently the government retains certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to treatment methods for pathologies in which elevated MMP production is implicated in pathogenesis.

A pterygium is an elevated superficial external ocular mass that usually forms over the cornea and particularly in Bowman s layer. Pterygia can vary from small atrophic quiescent lesions to large aggressive rapidly growing fibrovascular lesions that can distort the corneal topography and in advanced cases obscure the optical center of the cornea. Growth is typically in a triangular shape.

The pathophysiology of pterygia is characterized by degeneration of collagen and fibrovascular proliferation with an overlying covering of epithelium. It is believed that pterygium cells may produce elevated levels of matrix metallopeptidase MMP including specifically MMP 1 MMP 2 and MMP 9. Proteins of the MMP family are involved in the breakdown of extracellular matrix in normal physiological processes such as embryonic development reproduction and tissue remodeling. It is believed that the over expressed MMP s are responsible for the dissolution of Bowman s layer.

Occurrence of ptyerigium varies with geographical location. Within the continental United States prevalence rates vary from less than 2 above the 40th parallel to 5 15 in latitudes between 28 36 . Outside of the U.S. a similar relationship is seen between incidence of pterygium and geographical location. There is a relatively high incidence of pterygium in the countries of the Middle East. A relationship is thought to exist between increased prevalence of pterygium and elevated levels of ultraviolet light exposure in the lower latitudes. There may also be a genetic predisposition to the formation of pterygia.

Pterygia can cause a significant alteration in visual function in advanced cases. They also can become inflamed resulting in redness and ocular irritation. Medical therapy of inflammation causing pterygia consists of application of over the counter artificial tears topical lubricating drops eg Refresh Tears GenTeal drops and or bland non preserved ointments eg Refresh P.M. Hypo Tears as well as occasional short term use of topical corticosteroid anti inflammatory drops eg Pred Forte 1 when symptoms are more intense. However such treatments address the inflammation symptoms only and do not interfere with the growth of the pterygium. A pterygium that is large enough to impair sight or is unsightly may need to be removed surgically.

Pterygium is one example of a pathology associated with increased MMP production. Other such pathologies include Kerataconus macular degeneration corneal melting occlusions in the choroid cancer and heart disease.

A need exists for a non surgical treatment for pterygium and other MMP implicated pathologies as well as a less toxic adjunct for pterygium glaucoma and vitreo retinal membranes

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a method for treating a host having a pathology in which increased production of MMP is implicated is disclosed. The method comprises administering to a host having a pathology in which increased production of MMP is implicated a composition including cysteamine.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a method for treating a host having a pathology in which increased production of MMP is implicated is disclosed. The method comprises administering to a host having a pathology in which increased production of MMP is implicated a composition including cysteamine wherein the pathology is pterygium and wherein the step of administering cysteamine comprises providing cysteamine in the form of eye drops.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a method for treating a host having a pathology in which increased production of MMP is implicated is disclosed. The method comprises administering to a host having a pathology in which increased production of MMP is implicated a composition including cysteamine wherein the pathology is pterygium wherein the step of administering cysteamine comprises providing cysteamine in the form of eye drops wherein the eye drops are provided between about two and twelve times per day and wherein the concentration of cysteamine in the composition in between about 0.1 and about 0.5 .

Generally the nomenclature used hereafter is that which is well known and commonly employed in the art. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention the preferred methods and materials are described. For the purposes of the present invention the foregoing terms are defined below.

Cysteamine HSCHCHNH is a stable aminothiol and a degradation product of the amino acid cysteine. Under the trade name Cystagon cysteamine is used in the treatment of disorders of cystine excretion such as cystinosis. Cystinosis patients precipitate crystals of cysteine throughout the body including particularly in the eye and kidney. Cysteamine cleaves the disulfide bond with cysteine to produce molecules that can escape the metabolic defect in cystinosis patients.

Cysteamine HCl is currently provided to cystinosis patients in an oral systemic form or as an eye drop at a concentration level of 0.5 and in a solution preserved with benzalkonium. It should be noted that concentrations of 0.1 have been shown to be effective. For the eye drop application patients may be advised to use the drops as many as 12 times per day. While there may be a slight burning sensation as the drops enter the eye no toxicity has not been observed. Oral cysteamine bitartrate is generally recommended where there is an impairment of renal function. Cysteamine therapy has been shown to produce improved growth and stabilized renal function in pre renal transplant cystinotics without substantial toxicity. Cysteamine is manufactured by Sigma Tau Pharmaceuticals Inc. and is currently provided to Cystinosis patients under IND 40593.

According to one embodiment of the present invention pterygia may be treated by administration of cysteamine. In one embodiment cysteamine may be provided in either of the forms currently used in the treatment of cystinosis i.e. either in the form of an eye drop or orally and in the concentrations and formulations previously utilized. Other therapeutically beneficial formulations and or concentrations of cysteamine may also be provided.

Where cysteamine is to be applied by eye drops application multiple times per day may be desired. In one embodiment application may occur four times per day. However fewer applications may provide some beneficial results and a greater number of applications may provide improved efficacy. It should be noted that applications of cysteamine drops 12 times per day has been prescribed for some cystinosis patients.

In one embodiment cysteamine is used in the treatment of pterygium. Applicant notes that pterygium represents an example of a pathology in which excess MMP production is implicated in pathogenesis. Kerataconus and macular degeneration are examples of other pathologies affecting the eye in which MMP is also implicated. Cysteamine therapy as described herein may also be utilized in the treatment of kerataconus and or macular degeneration with a topical application involving eye drops being one preferred treatment method. Cysteamine therapy may also be provided in the treatment of conditions causing corneal melting including auto immune disease inflammation and infection. Similarly cysteamine therapy may be provided for the treatment of subretinal choroidal neovascular membrane. Using this as an adjunct treatment may reduce the incidence of occlusions in the choroid produced as a side effect of the use of Avantis and or Lucentis as an antibody against VEGF.

Cysteamine may also be used after glaucoma surgery trabeculectomy or seton to reduce scar tissue proliferation. By inhibiting MMP production at a specific time in the healing process it is possible that scar tissue which can cause the surgery to fail will be minimized.

Further it should be noted that other pathologies also are accompanied by excess MMP production. These include certain cancers which use MMP s to spread and certain types of heart disease. Cysteamine may be provided as an effective therapy for such pathologies with an oral systemic application being considered preferred for pathologies that manifest themselves in places other than the eye.

It should be noted that the quantity of cysteamine necessary for effective therapy will depend on many different factors including means of administration target site physiological state of the patient and other medicaments administered. Thus treatment dosages should be titrated to optimize safety and efficacy. Typically dosages used in vitro may provide useful guidance in the amounts useful for in situ administration of the active ingredients in a quantity sufficient to constitute a therapeutic dose. Animal testing of effective doses for treatment of particular disorders will provide further predictive indication of a human therapeutic dosage. Various considerations are described for example in Goodman and Gilman s The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics 7th Edition 1985 MacMillan Publishing Company New York and Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Edition 1990 Mack Publishing Co Easton Pa. Methods for administration are discussed therein including oral intravenous intraperitoneal intramuscular transdermal nasal iontophoretic administration and the like.

Unit dosage forms suitable for oral administration include solid dosage forms such as powder tablets pills and capsules and internally consumable liquid dosage forms such as elixirs gums liquids syrups and suspensions. Gelatin capsules may contain the active ingredient and as therapeutically acceptable inactive ingredients powdered carriers such as glucose lactose sucrose mannitol starch cellulose or cellulose derivatives magnesium stearate stearic acid sodium saccharin talcum magnesium carbonate and the like. Examples of additional pharmaceutically acceptable inactive ingredients that may be added to provide desirable color taste stability buffering capacity dispersion or other known desirable features are red iron oxide silica gel sodium lauryl sulfate titanium dioxide edible white ink and the like. Similar diluents can be used to make compressed tablets. Both tablets and capsules can be manufactured as sustained release products to provide for continuous release of medication over a period of hours. Compressed tablets can be sugar coated or film coated to mask any unpleasant taste and protect the tablet from the atmosphere or enteric coated for selective disintegration in the gastrointestinal tract. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration can contain coloring and flavoring to increase patient acceptance.

For solid compositions conventional nontoxic therapeutically acceptable solid carriers may be used which include for example pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharin talcum cellulose glucose sucrose magnesium carbonate and the like. For oral administration a pharmaceutically acceptable nontoxic composition is formed by incorporating any of the normally employed excipients such as those carriers previously listed and generally 10 95 of active ingredient that is one or more compositions of the invention of the invention and more preferably at a concentration of 25 75 .

The concentration of the compositions of the invention in the pharmaceutical formulations can vary widely i.e. from less than about 0.1 usually at or at least about 2 to as much as 20 to 50 or more by weight and will be selected primarily by fluid volumes viscosities etc. in accordance with the particular mode of administration selected.

Any of the foregoing formulations may be appropriate in treatments and therapies in accordance with the present invention provided that the active agent in the formulation is not inactivated by the formulation and the formulation is physiologically compatible.

Although particular embodiments of the invention have been described in detail for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be limited except as by the appended claims.

