---

title: Distribution services reservation integration
abstract: Systems according to embodiments of the present invention include a core adapter module configured to receive reservation information from a reservation system in a first format useable be the reservation system, a web service module configured to identify a provider system based on the reservation information and to place the reservation information into a second format useable by the provider system, and a distribution module configured to send the reservation information in the second format to the provider system. Methods according to embodiments of the present invention include receiving reservation from a reservation system in a first format useable by the reservation system identifying a provider system based on the reservation information, processing the reservation information to place the reservation information into a second format useable by the provider system, and sending the reservation information in the second format to the provider system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08028890&OS=08028890&RS=08028890
owner: RTP, LLC
number: 08028890
owner_city: Avon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071029
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 863 208 filed on Oct. 27 2006 and entitled Distribution Services Reservation Integration which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to distribution services reservation and media activation integration and more specifically to systems and methods for facilitating electronic reservations and media activations.

Today people commonly book trip reservations online. For example a person may access an online travel reservation service such as Expedia.com to reserve basic items such as a hotel room airline tickets and a rental car which are necessary for people to get to and from the destination and stay at the destination during the trip. For these common elements of travel most online travel reservation systems have electronic interfaces to service providers to book and reconcile the reservation. In addition to basic travel components people typically want to reserve additional products services or activities which are not directly related to the travel or room accommodations. For example a person may want to purchase lift tickets to a ski resort reserve a sight seeing tour or tickets to a live show. Historically the processes and systems used to reserve additional components of a trip are not served by electronic interfaces and thus subject to risks related to data integrity fraud and reservation error.

Current systems are characterized by error prone manual steps in the process of taking and making a person s reservation. For example when the person i.e. the guest places a reservation for a resort through an online reservation service an email itinerary reservation is sent from the online reservation service to a receiving party e.g. accounting department at the resort. The email itinerary reservation typically remains in an email inbox at the resort without any real attention until later when the reservation and sale are reconciled. Later at the time of the reservation the guest arrives at the resort and presents a paper voucher that was provided to the guest by the online reservation service. The paper voucher indicates a product that was reserved or purchased by the guest as well as the online reservation service that was used to make the reservation. An employee e.g. desk attendant at the resort attempts to make a point of sale POS transaction based on the voucher.

The POS transaction involves carrying out the terms of the reservation for example by identifying the product e.g. sightseeing tour ski lift ticket represented by the paper voucher and providing the product using the resort s sales reservation system. In conventional systems the employee who accepts the voucher from the guest must interpret the paper voucher in order to properly carry out the product reservation purchase. This can be a challenging time consuming error prone task in part because every online reservation service typically generates a voucher with a unique data format or look. In addition the employee may often be unable to authenticate the voucher at the time of the POS transaction. As such the employee essentially trusts the voucher s legitimacy and his interpretation of the voucher when making the POS transaction.

In addition to the POS transaction the sale must be reconciled with the reservation that was sent earlier by the online reservation service to the resort. Accordingly the paper voucher from the guest is typically submitted to the receiving party at the resort who originally received the itinerary reservation from the online reservation service for reconciliation. The receiving party manually reconciles the paper voucher against the itinerary reservation that was originally sent and then attempts to collect payment from the online reservation service using the paper voucher. As such conventionally the POS transaction has been disconnected from the reservation reconciliation process. The disconnection between the POS transaction and the reconciliation introduce potential for error. In addition the manual reconciliation process is time consuming and error prone.

Systems for reservation integration and distribution according to embodiments of the present invention include a core adapter module configured to receive reservation information from a reservation system in a first format useable by the reservation system a web service module configured to identify a provider system based on the reservation information and to place the reservation information into a second format useable by the provider system and a distribution module configured to send the reservation information in the second format to the provider system. The reservation information may include at least a name a basic service and a credit card number for example. In some cases the basic service information includes an arrival date for a ski resort lodging reservation. According to some embodiments of the present invention the distribution module is further configured to create an advance sale on the provider system according to the reservation information.

Methods of reservation integration and distribution according to embodiments of the present invention include receiving reservation information from a reservation system in a first format useable by the reservation system identifying a provider system based on the reservation information processing the reservation information to place the reservation information into a second format useable by the provider system and sending the reservation information in the second format to the provider system. In some cases the reservation information includes at least a name a basic service a service provider providing the basic service and a credit card number. The basic service may be an arrival date for a ski resort lodging reservation and the service provider may be a ski resort for example. In addition an advance sale may be created on the provider system according to the reservation information.

Methods for media activation according to embodiments of the present invention include receiving a media activation request from a distribution point of sale system in a first format useable by the distribution point of sale system identifying a provider system based on the media activation request processing the media activation request to place the media activation request into a second format useable by the provider system and sending the media activation request in the second format to the provider system. According to some embodiments the media activation request includes at least a unique identification number and a service provider. According to other embodiments the media activation request is a request to activate a physical medium for use in accessing services provided by a service provider and embodiments of the methods further include updating a database of the provider system with an activation of the physical medium based on the media activation request and providing a supplier interface in communication with the database configured to read the physical medium and to permit access to the services based on the activation. In some cases the physical medium is a card with a magnetic strip and the supplier interface is a magnetic card stripe reader in other cases the physical medium is an object with an RFID transmitter and the supplier interface is an RFID receiver and in yet other cases the physical medium is an object including a bar code and the supplier interface is a bar code reader. According to some embodiments the object is a toy race car the service provider is a car racing venue and the supplier interface is configured to permit access to the car racing venue by unlocking a gate based on the media activation.

Systems for media activation according to embodiments of the present invention include a core adapter module configured to receive a media activation request from a distribution point of sale system in a first format useable by the distribution point of sale system a web service module configured to identify a provider system based on the media activation request and to place the media activation request into a second format useable by the provider system and a distribution module configured to send the media activation request in the second format to the provider system. According to some embodiments the media activation request includes at least a unique identification number and a service provider. According to other embodiments the media activation request is a request to activate a physical medium for use in accessing services provided by a service provider the systems according to such embodiments further including a database of the provider system configured to store an activation of the physical medium based on the media activation request and a supplier interface in communication with the database and configured to read the physical medium and to permit access to the services based on the activation. In some cases the physical medium is a card with a magnetic strip and the supplier interface is a magnetic card stripe reader in other cases the physical medium is an object with an RFID transmitter and the supplier interface is an RFID receiver and in yet other cases the physical medium is an object including a bar code and the supplier interface is a bar code reader. According to some embodiments the object is a toy race car the service provider is a car racing venue and the supplier interface is configured to permit access to the car racing venue by unlocking a gate based on the media activation.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

While the invention is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention however is not to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to systems and methods for facilitating making and reconciling reservations for products and services in an online environment. More specifically embodiments relate to a framework for logically integrating the reservation process among multiple systems in the reservation and reconciliation processes. Some embodiments relate to a scalable framework logically located between one or more online reservations systems and one or more product service provider systems to automatically push reservations to the product service provider system s and automatically reconcile product service sales with reservations made through online reservation systems. As such the reservation and reconciliation process appears as a seamless integrated system.

One embodiment of the reservation framework includes a multi tier architecture. In this embodiment various reservation and reconciliation processes are carried out by multiple modules. Some of these modules comprise a core framework that may interact with other modules executing at the online reservation systems and or the product service provider systems. The core framework includes interfaces and functionality for interacting with potentially multiple different online reservation systems interfaces and multiple different product service provider systems interfaces. In addition the core framework can be scaled to interact with other different interfaces. Interfaces at the online reservation system and the product service provider system may include adapter modules that interact seamlessly with the core framework.

One or more preferred embodiments are described below with reference to the accompanying figures. In addition the attached Appendix A describes one or more preferred embodiments. Prior to describing one or more preferred embodiments of the present invention definitions of some terms used throughout the description are presented.

The terms online reservation system and online reservation service refer broadly to any reservation taking system or service that is accessible via a network. By way of example but not limitation online reservation systems and online reservation services include Orbitz Travelocity and Expedia . Although embodiments described herein relate primarily to reservation services that are accessible over the Internet the invention is not limited to Internet based reservation services. For example other reservation services may take reservations over the phone or in person and enter the reservations itineraries into a network based system from which the reservations can be processed in a manner similar to reservations taken by Internet based online reservation services.

The terms customer and guest refer broadly to any consumer of services or products. This application relates primarily to the reservation advance sale and or sale of services and products. Products and services may be consumed during a trip e.g. a day trip a vacation that a customer takes.

The term trip refers broadly to any outing that is taken by a customer and may include trips of relatively short distance or long distance. For example a customer could take a trip to a resort that is close e.g. one to one hundred miles to the customer s home or the customer could take a trip to a resort that is relatively far e.g. one hundred to thousands of miles from the customer s home.

The term product service provider refers broadly to any entity that provides products and or services. By way of example but not limitation product service providers include attractions themed amusements resorts e.g. ski resorts tour providers and the like.

The term basic product service refers to products and or services that are essential to a trip taken by a customer. For example for overnight trips a hotel or motel room is typically considered a basic product service. Travel accommodations such as cars buses trains and or airline accommodations are typically also considered basic products services.

The term travel products refers to products services and or activities that are not necessarily essential to a consumer s trip. By way of example but not limitation the travel products include ski lift tickets spa appointments tickets to sight seeing tours and tickets to shows and performances.

The term module refers broadly to software hardware or firmware components or any combination thereof . Modules are typically functional components that can generate useful data or other output using specified input s . A module may or may not be self contained. An application program also called an application may include one or more modules or a module can include one or more application programs or applets.

The terms connected or coupled and related terms are used in an operational sense and are not necessarily limited to a direct connection or coupling.

The phrases in one embodiment according to one embodiment and the like generally mean the particular feature structure or characteristic following the phrase is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention and may be included in more than one embodiment of the present invention. Importantly such phrases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

If the specification states a component or feature may can could or might be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or have the characteristic.

The term computer readable media is media that is accessible by a computer or computer like device e.g. game console IP devices and can include without limitation computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media generally refers to any type of computer readable memory such as but not limited to volatile non volatile removable or non removable memory. Computer storage media may be magnetic optical or other format. Communication media refers to a modulated signal carrying computer readable data such as without limitation program modules instructions or data structures.

Beneficially the distribution framework can perform pre processing on the reservation to facilitate an integrated reservation process that is less error prone and more trustworthy that conventional processes. For example the distribution framework can be designed to accept only legitimate reservations from authorized online reservation services . In addition the distribution framework can process reservations from the online reservation system by creating reservations that are in a format that is similar to or compatible with reservations used by the resort system . In the embodiment of the distribution framework pushes the guest s processed reservation to the resort system to thereby create an advanced sale in the resort system . The pre processing and advanced sale process has the beneficial effect of automatically performing or obviating steps in the reservation process prior to the guest s arrival at the resort that in conventional systems would have been carried out by resort staff manually.

To illustrate after making the reservation the guest arrives at the resort on the scheduled date. The guest does not need to have a reservation voucher or other document with him in order to make use of the reserved products services. Rather a resort attendant enters identification data of the guest into the resort system to locate the guest s reservation. Because the reservation has been entered as an advanced sale the reservation is quickly retrieved and is already in a format that is commonly used by and readily understood by the resort attendant . For example any travel products may already have been entered into the resort system such that the resort attendant does not need to interpret a paper voucher from the guest to determine what products services the guest has reserved.

In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the advanced sale is reconciled with the reservation automatically and online reservation system supports such automatic reconciliation. The resort system may according to such embodiments automatically submit the advance sale to the online reservation system for payment.

Referring to the guest computer again the guest computer can be any computing device operable to communicate over the network with the online reservation system . By way of example but without limitation the guest computer could be a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer or a cell phone. The computer includes functionality to communicate via one or more network protocols such as Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP File Transfer Protocol FTP and or Simple Mail Transport Protocol SMTP . The computer typically includes a web browser application that can navigate web pages and present the web pages to the guest .

In various embodiments the online reservation system includes a web server that serves web pages in a markup language format e.g. Hypertext Markup Language . The browser on the guest computer reads web pages from the online reservation system . Through the web pages the guest can enter reservation data such as products needed services needed dates of travel name credit card information other payment information customer loyalty program information e.g. frequent flyer ID and the like. As such the online reservation system gathers the reservation information and builds an itinerary for the guest .

The network may be composed of one or more networks and or sub networks. For example the network may be the Internet which itself is composed of numerous sub networks. The network may include wired and wireless portions. The network may include switched networks such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP networks. The network may include Local Area Networks LANs Wide Area Networks WANs backbone networks and others. In addition one or more of the interactions among the systems in the network environment may be carried out via one or more virtual private networks VPN .

It will be understood that the embodiment shown in is greatly simplified from an actual network environment for purposes of illustration. In actual operation the network environment would include numerous guests guest computers online reservation systems resorts and potentially numerous distribution frameworks. As such a distribution framework can support numerous different online reservation systems and numerous different resorts . The capabilities of the distribution framework can be leveraged among the numerous online reservation systems as well as the numerous resorts .

The reservation originator tier includes a reservation taker module and an original reservation distributor module . The reservation taker interacts with another application or a user to take reservation information and produce an original reservation that may be in the form of a document or other set of data in memory. Typically the original reservation has its own distinct format such as the types of data included the organization or order of the data and so on. The original reservation distributor makes the original reservation available to the core tier . Alternatively the core tier may retrieve the reservation from a designated location.

An optional core adapter serves as an interface to the reservation originator . The core adapter may be implemented to handle an interface protocol that is specific to the reservation originator . In other embodiments the core adapter may not be necessary for example where the reservation originator includes a standard interface.

A web service uses reservation data from the reservation originator to create a reservation that is compatible with the appropriate product service provider . As such web service determines which product service provider is specified in the reservation and formats and or reformats as necessary a reservation that has a format corresponding to the reservation format used by the product service provider . After the original reservation is processed by the web service a core reservation distributor distributes the processed reservation to the appropriate product service provider .

The product service provider may interface with the core tier via a provider adapter that handles any special provider interface protocols as necessary. The provider reservation sales system is configured to receive and store the processed reservation. The provider reservation sales system is also operable to retrieve the reservation information when it is queried.

Core tier may be component tier coded using C and may be a multi threaded environment according to embodiments of the present invention. According to some embodiments core tier performs product activation. Both pre printed media and print on demand media can be activated through the core tier . When a media product is sold by a distribution partner the core tier may send a message to the supplier to activate the product within the supplier s operations system. Once the media is activated the customer can use the product for direct access to the resort or attraction. According to some embodiments of the present invention core tier performs order processing. More complex transactions that generate an itinerary may use core tier to process the non global distribution systems products in an itinerary. Such products may be passed through the core tier which in turn sends a message to the supplier s system to create an order. Once the order is placed the supplier s normal fulfillment process is used to fulfill the order. The itinerary order interface is designed to pass both available customer information and itinerary confirmation numbers to the supplier system. This allows the customer to fulfill the order at the location specified by the resort or attraction according to embodiments of the present invention. According to some embodiments of the present invention the core tier performs transaction processing. Core tier can process products that do not fall into the activation or order processing categories such as for example direct product sales or access to resort programs like resort charge voucher and loyalty. Data collected at the distribution point may then be translated into the supplier s system for normal processing at the resort property according to embodiments of the present invention.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the core tier may further include various modules to perform services. For example the core tier may include a message orchestration service module to communicate with the service distributors and a message validation service module and a message automation service module in communication with the message orchestration service module. The message automation service module may be in communication with a message formatter which can communicate in substantially real time updates to a message delivery service module or in a staged fashion to a message queuing service module. The message delivery service module may deliver messages to one or more suppliers or suppliers agents after receiving them from the message formatter module or the message queuing module according to embodiments of the present invention.

One or more portions of the architecture of may be implemented using a virtual machine such as .NET from Microsoft Corporation or Java Virtual Machine from Sun . Data may be stored in databases in accordance with any number of database models such as flat hierarchical network relational object oriented or others. By way of example but not limitation Microsoft Structured Query Language SQL MySQL or Oracle databases may be used. Servers and their related services may be implemented using Microsoft s Internet Information Services IIS or Apache Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP Servers or others as appropriate to a particular implementation.

In a receiving operation an original reservation itinerary is received from a reservation originator. The receiving operation may involve adapting data or data formats communicated between the core tier and the reservation originator to facilitate communication of the original reservation to the core tier. In a determining operation it is determined which product service provider the received reservation applies to. The product service provider is typically specified in the original reservation. The core tier is operable to read the original reservation to identify the specified product service provider. Of course the reservation may include multiple product service providers. In this case all of the product service providers are identified.

In a processing operation data from the original reservation is processed to create a reservation that is compatible with the product service provider s reservation or sales systems. In one embodiment the processing operation utilizes Extensible Markup Language XML schemas to perform the processing. The processing operation may be viewed as a mapping from one reservation or itinerary format to another format. After the reservation is processed a providing operation provides the processed reservation to the appropriate product service provider s system s . In one embodiment the providing operation includes pushing the reservation to the appropriate system where it can be stored as an advanced sale in the provider s reservation sales system.

According to some embodiments of the present invention goods and or services may be purchased for a piece of media which evidences the purchase rather than identifiable information of guest which is then verified by the resort attendant as illustrated in embodiments of . Use of media according to embodiments of the present invention permits guest to access goods and or services at a venue directly without having to provide additional proof of purchase and without having to redeem or exchange one form of media bought at the store with another form of media useable at a supplier venue . For example guests currently must buy vouchers or gift cards for a certain company or type of goods or services and upon arrival at the supplier venue the guests must often surrender and exchange the vouchers and or gift cards for tokens or entry passes or other supplier specific media used to access the goods or services. Embodiments of the present invention however permit activation of media by an authorized media activation distributor to be translated into a record in the supplier s system which permits the media to be used directly at the supplier venue to directly access the purchased goods and or services.

Beneficially the distribution framework can perform pre processing on the media activation to facilitate an integrated media activation process that is less error prone and more trustworthy than conventional manual processes. For example the distribution framework can be designed to accept only legitimate media activations from authorized distributors and or distributor POSs . In addition the distribution framework can process media activations from the distributor POS by creating media activations that are in a format that is similar to or compatible with media activations used by the supplier system . In the embodiment of the distribution framework pushes the guest s processed media activation to the supplier system to thereby create a record of transaction in the supplier system . The pre processing and record of transaction process has the beneficial effect of automatically performing or obviating steps in media activation and or media redemption prior to the guest s arrival at the supplier venue that in conventional systems would have been carried out by resort staff manually.

To illustrate after purchasing and or activating the media the guest arrives at the supplier venue . The guest does not need to have a sales receipt for the media activation or other document with her in order to make use of the media to access the purchased goods and or services. Furthermore the guest does not need to redeem or exchange the media for another corresponding token or media used by supplier venue because distribution framework will have already provided supplier system with the media activation information sufficient to update supplier system and permit media to be used to provide direct access to purchased goods or services at supplier venue . Because the media activation has been entered as a transaction the media is already in a format that is commonly used by and readily understood by one or more supplier interfaces in communication with supplier systems at supplier venue .

In accordance with one embodiment the transaction corresponding to the activation of media is reconciled with the supplier system automatically. The supplier system automatically submits the advance sale to the distributor POS for payment.

Referring to the distributor POS again the distributor POS can be any computing device operable to communicate over the network with the distribution framework . By way of example but without limitation the distributor POS could be a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer or a cell phone. The computer includes functionality to communicate via one or more network protocols such as Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP File Transfer Protocol FTP and or Simple Mail Transport Protocol SMTP . The computer may in some embodiments include a web browser application that can navigate web pages and present the web pages to the guest .

The network may be composed of one or more networks and or sub networks. For example the network may be the Internet which itself is composed of numerous sub networks. The network may include wired and wireless portions. The network may include switched networks such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP networks. The network may include Local Area Networks LANs Wide Area Networks WANs backbone networks and others. In addition one or more of the interactions among the systems in the network environment may be carried out via one or more virtual private networks VPN .

It will be understood that the embodiment shown in is greatly simplified from an actual network environment for purposes of illustration. In actual operation the network environment would include numerous guests guest computers online reservation systems resorts and potentially numerous distribution frameworks. As such a distribution framework can support numerous different distributor points of sale and numerous different supplier systems . The capabilities of the distribution framework can be leveraged among the numerous distributor points of sale systems as well as the numerous venues .

According to some embodiments of the present invention media is a plastic card with a magnetic strip which contains a unique identifier and supplier interface is a magnetic card reader which correlates the unique identifier with the media activation received in system from distribution framework to provide direct access to the purchased goods or services. According to other embodiments media contains a radio frequency identification RFID chip which is operable to transmit a unique identifier and supplier interface is an RFID receiver transceiver operable to read the unique identifier from media . According to yet other embodiments media is an item which includes a bar code or other visual pattern with a unique configuration and supplier interface is a scanner operable to associate the unique configuration of the bar code or other visual pattern with the media activation received in system from distribution framework .

Media may also be a form of nontraditional media such as a three dimensional and or non flat media according to embodiments of the present invention. Media may be a replica or representation of a concept associated with supplier venue and or the goods or services offered by the supplier. For example media could be a small toy car containing an RFID chip which upon activation of the media could provide direct access at an entry turnstile to a professional car racing event. As another nonlimiting example the media could be distinctive toy building blocks imprinted with a bar code which upon media activation using embodiments of the present invention could be used to obtain entry to a theme park dedicated to the particular toy building blocks by presenting the building blocks media to a scanner at the theme park entrance. Embodiments of the present invention permit such distinctive and unique items to be used as media to directly access purchased goods and or services at a supplier venue without having to be exchanged or redeemed.

The distribution originator tier includes a media activation taker module and an original media activation distributor module . The media activation taker interacts with another application or a user to take media activation information and produce an original media activation request that may be in the form of a document or other set of data in memory. Typically the original media activation request has its own distinct format such as the types of data included the organization or order of the data and so on. The original media activation distributor makes the original media activation available to the core tier for example by emailing the transaction to the core tier . Alternatively the core tier may retrieve the transaction from a designated location.

An optional core adapter serves as an interface to the distribution originator . The core adapter may be implemented to handle an interface protocol that is specific to the distribution originator . In other embodiments the core adapter may not be necessary for example where the distribution originator includes a standard interface.

A web service uses media activation data from the distribution originator to create a media activation request that is compatible with the appropriate product service provider . As such web service determines which product service provider is specified in the media activation and formats and or reformats as necessary a media activation request that has a format corresponding to the media activation format used by the product service provider . After the original media activation request is processed by the web service a core media activation distributor distributes the processed media activation to the appropriate product service provider .

The product service provider may interface with the core tier via a provider adapter that handles any special provider interface protocols as necessary. The provider media acceptance system is configured to receive and store the processed media activation. The provider media acceptance system is also operable to retrieve the media activation information when it is queried.

One or more portions of the architecture of may be implemented using a virtual machine such as .NET from Microsoft Corporation or Java Virtual Machine from Sun . Data may be stored in databases in accordance with any number of database models such as flat hierarchical network relational object oriented or the like. By way of example but not limitation Microsoft Structured Query Language SQL MySQL or Oracle databases may be used. Servers and their related services may be implemented using Microsoft s Internet Information Services IIS or Apache Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP Servers or others as appropriate to a particular implementation.

In a receiving operation an original media activation is received from a distribution originator. The receiving operation may involve adapting data or data formats communicated between the core tier and the media activation originator to facilitate communication of the original media activation to the core tier. In a determining operation it is determined which product service provider the received media activation applies to. The product service provider is typically specified in the original media activation request received from the distribution originator. The core tier is operable to read the original media activation to identify the specified product service provider. Of course the media activation may include multiple product service providers. In this case all of the product service providers are identified.

In a processing operation data from the original media activation is processed to create a media activation that is compatible with the product service provider s reservation or sales systems. In one embodiment the processing operation utilizes Extensible Markup Language XML schemas to perform the processing. The processing operation may be viewed as a mapping from one media activation or media format to another format. After the media activation is processed a providing operation provides the processed media activation to the appropriate product service provider s system s . In one embodiment the providing operation includes pushing the media activation to the appropriate system where it can be stored as a transaction in the provider s reservation sales system.

As discussed herein embodiments of the present invention include various steps. A variety of these steps may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware.

According to the present example the computing device includes a bus at least one processor at least one communication port a main memory a removable storage media a read only memory and a mass storage . Processor s can be any know processor such as but not limited to an Intel Itanium or Itanium 2 processor s or AMD Opteron or Athlon MP processor s or Motorola lines of processors. Communication port s can be any of an RS 232 port for use with a modem based dialup connection a 10 100 Ethernet port a Gigabit port using copper or fiber or a Universal Serial Bus USB port. Communication port s may be chosen depending on a network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or any network to which the computing device connects. The computing device may be in communication with peripheral devices not shown such as but not limited to printers speakers cameras microphones or scanners.

Main memory can be Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device s commonly known in the art. Read only memory can be any static storage device s such as Programmable Read Only Memory PROM chips for storing static information such as instructions for processor . Mass storage can be used to store information and instructions. For example hard disks such as the Adaptec family of SCSI drives an optical disc an array of disks such as RAID such as the Adaptec family of RAID drives or any other mass storage devices may be used.

Bus communicatively couples processor s with the other memory storage and communication blocks. Bus can be a PCI PCI X SCSI or USB based system bus or other depending on the storage devices used. Removable storage media can be any kind of external hard drives floppy drives IOMEGA Zip Drives Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disc Re Writable CD RW Digital Video Disk Read Only Memory DVD ROM .

In the streamlined process of the embodiment depicted in a guest books a reservation on an online reservation system step . The online reservation system then e mails an itinerary to the guest step . The distribution framework then retrives the itinerary from the online reservation system step . The distribution framework then processes and routes the itinerary to the resort system creating an advanced sale in the resort system step . When the guest arrives and identifies himself or herself to utilize products booked through the online reservation system step the resort employee locates and fulfills the advanced sale created in step step . The fulfilled advanced sales are then submitted to the online reservation system for payment step according to embodiments of the present invention. A similar process may be used for a media activation system as described herein to reduce risk associated with data integrity fraud and manual reconciliation. In the process of all steps except for and involve direct human intervention whereas in the process of only steps and potentially involve direct human intervention according to embodiments of the present invention. According to some embodiments of the present invention data and or price consistency is managed via automated processes such as for example price discrepancy alerts and manual processes like comparing reports from the distribution framework to the resort system .

Schemas written in extended markup language XML may be used to instruct a processor of a distribution framework such as distribution framework according to embodiments of the present invention. The following illustrates non limiting examples of XML schemas that may be employed for various purposes as described below. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the structure organization and other attributes of the following XML schemas may vary in order to accomplish the purposes described below and that some all or none of the following XML schemas may be used according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS ActivateAccessMediaRQ This schema defines a request to Activate Media valid for Access to a venue goods or services according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS ActivateAccessMediaRS This schema contains the response to a request to Activate Access Media according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS ActivateValueMediaRQ This schema defines a request to Activate Media valid for a denominated Value dollar amount according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS ActivateValueMediaRS This schema contains the response to a request to Activate Value Media according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS BalanceInquryValueMediaRQ This schema defines a request to Check the Balance of Value Media according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS CancelOrderRQ This schema defines a request to Cancel an Order Advances Sale or Reservation according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS CancelOrderRS This schema contains the response to a request to Cancel an Order according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS CreateOrderRQ This schema defines a request to Create a New Order Advanced Sale or Reservation according to embodiments of the present

RTPDS CreateOrderRS This schema contains the response to a request to Create a New Order according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS CreditDebitValueMediaRQ This schema defines a request to increment or decrement the Balance of Value Media according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS Header This schema defines a standard Distribution Services message according to embodiments of the present invention.

RTPDS InactiveAccessMediaRQ This schema defines a request to Inactivate Access Media according to embodiments of the present invention.

Various modifications and additions can be made to the exemplary embodiments discussed without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example while the embodiments described above refer to particular features the scope of this invention also includes embodiments having different combinations of features and embodiments that do not include to include all of the described features. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations as fall within the scope of the claims together with all equivalents thereof.

