---

title: Surface wave resonator with reduced acceleration sensitivity
abstract: A restrained surface wave resonator with reduced or abated acceleration sensitivity is provided with a stiffening layer, adhesive layers and subsurface horizontal indentations on the substrate to achieve reduced acceleration sensitivity, increased structural rigidity, decreased sensitivity to in-plane deformations, a lightweight device and reduced deleterious effects from environmental shocks and vibration. The substrate of the restrained surface wave resonators features multiple subsurface horizontal indentations in one major substrate surface deposited on a stiffening layer to provide improved structural rigidity against flexure caused by normal acceleration based upon the diminished mass and reduced weight resulting from removal of portions of the substrate subsurface through micro-machining, and it also tends to improve excessive sensitivity to other flexural deformations. The present invention encompasses a restrained surface wave resonator device and a restrained surface wave resonator system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07397165&OS=07397165&RS=07397165
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07397165
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070327
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment by the Government of any royalties to me thereon.

The invention relates generally to piezoelectric devices and in particular to surface acoustic wave crystal resonators.

Piezoelectric resonators are well known in the art as electronic elements used to select and stabilize a particular frequency. Piezoelectric resonators are widely used in various kinds of civilian electronic equipment including mobile communication systems such as cellular cordless and satellite telephones and military electronic equipment such as radars and weapons seekers. Piezoelectric resonators can also be used as sensors of temperature pressure force acceleration and mass. In all cases the purpose of the resonator is to precisely determine the allowed frequency and to provide immunity against unwanted external environmental influences. The basic design of piezoelectric resonators is well known to those skilled in the art. The properties of the crystal resonator depend on the angles of cut as the piezoelectric crystal material is formed into a substrate often in the form of a wafer. Metal electrodes are disposed upon the crystal wafer which is mounted in a structure designed to hold the crystal wafer and to provide electrical contact to an external circuit. This crystal and holder assembly is called a piezoelectric resonator. Surface acoustic wave SAW resonators and shallow bulk acoustic wave devices can be made to operate at frequencies from several MHz to well above 1 GHz.

The frequency of a piezoelectric resonator is affected by environmental stresses that deform the resonator including vibration shock gravitational stress temperature aging thermal hysteresis and so on. While these effects may be used as the basis for sensors they are considered adverse effects in the case of a resonator. For example even acceleration due to gravity produces measurable effects and the frequency of a piezoelectric resonator can shift significantly when turned upside down. In a specific example when an oscillator using an ST cut SAW resonator is turned upside down the frequency typically shifts about 4 10due to the acceleration sensitivity of approximately 2 10g. The sensitivity is the same when the crystal is subjected to vibration i.e. the time varying acceleration due to the vibration modulates the resonator frequency at the vibration frequency with a peak deviation of 2 10g. In the frequency domain the vibration sensitivity manifests itself as vibration induced sidebands that appear at plus and minus the vibration frequency away from the carrier frequency.

The stresses caused by acceleration vibration and shock are well known to those skilled in the art. illustrates a prior art piezoelectric surface wave resonator that suffers from inadequate structural rigidity and is therefore subject to excessive sensitivity arising from flexural deformations. The prior art piezoelectric surface wave resonator comprises a substrate with electrodes A and B deposited on one of the major surfaces of substrate . The surface wave resonator may be a SAW employing a Rayleigh wave mode or a surface transverse wave STW resonator employing a shear horizontal wave mode. The surface wave resonator is bonded to a circuit board by an adhesive that is applied uniformly over another major surface of substrate . The adhesive may be a rigid adhesive such as an epoxy or a compliant adhesive such as RTV silicone. Electrodes A and B are coupled to circuit traces A and B with wire bonds A and B respectively. The substrate is a rectangular parallelepiped with a rectangular cross section and rectangular plan view.

Such prior art arrangements suffer from inherent disadvantages with respect to both normal i.e. perpendicular to the major surfaces and in plane i.e. in the plane of the major surfaces acceleration sensitivities. Regarding the normal or perpendicular acceleration sensitivity the prior art suffers from at least two distinct disadvantages. First the simple rectangular shape of the device s cross sectional and plan views does not permit optimal structural rigidity with respect to the flexural deformations of interest. Secondly the application of adhesive over the full extent of a major surface as well as the direct mounting of the resonator onto the circuit board provides little or no isolation from accelerations normal to the circuit board and flexural deformations of the circuit board. Concerning excessive in plane acceleration sensitivity the prior art arrangement has two somewhat similar disadvantages. The simple rectangular shape of the device s cross sectional and plan views does not permit optimal structural rigidity to withstand the shear and anti symmetric flexural deformations of interest. And applying adhesive over the full extent of a major surface as well as the direct mounting of the resonator onto the circuit board provides little or no isolation from in plane accelerations.

The two disadvantages of inadequate structural rigidity and lack of any degree of structural isolation contribute directly to excessively large acceleration sensitivity. This follows directly from the basic nature of acceleration sensitivity wherein the frequency shifts are directly proportional to the physical deformation of the crystal substrate. In turn isolation from applied forces reduces the resulting deformation as does an optimization of the structural rigidity of the resonator both resulting in a lower acceleration sensitivity relative to a resonator lacking these features. Thus the inadequate structural rigidity and lack of structural isolation lead to deleterious effects on piezoelectric frequency stability such as acceleration sensitivity and related effects including excessive aging due to mounting stress relief.

Thus there has been a long felt need to overcome the problems caused by the inadequate structural rigidity and excessive sensitivity to in plane deformations in prior art surface wave piezoelectric resonators. A number of techniques have tried to resolve these long standing difficulties with limited success each obtaining some reduction in acceleration sensitivity at the price of increased size weight and so on. For example one technique for eliminating or minimizing unwanted lack of rigidity and excessive sensitivity has been to introduce a simple slab like stiffener to the structure but the use of such simple stiffeners has proven inadequate because of their enormous size relative to the crystal substrate practical examples include 1 cm thick stiffeners applied to 0.35 mm thick resonators. Other alternative approaches to these long standing problems such as micro machined isolation systems have also shown initial promise but they come at the cost of additional size sophisticated fabrication and possibly additional electronics to drive an active cancellation system.

Until now there are no currently available lightweight simple and low cost piezoelectric restraint mechanisms and packaging techniques that satisfactorily strengthen and stiffen the surface wave piezoelectric resonator against the unwanted lack of adequate structural rigidity and excessive sensitivity to in plane deformations. The present invention provides an innovative restraint technique that combines a stiffening layer adhesive and horizontal slotted indentations in a surface wave resonator that has solved the sensitivity problems that have retarded advances in piezoelectric equipment without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art devices.

In order to satisfy the long felt needs for practical lightweight and cost efficient piezoelectric restraint techniques that advantageously restrain mechanical and structural resonances the inventor has developed a surface wave resonator structure comprising a stiffening layer as a mounting support adhesives and a group of subsurface horizontal slotted indentations that innovatively and successfully resolve the long felt difficulties and shortcomings of inadequate structural rigidity and excessive sensitivity to externally applied forces and accelerations. The present invention solves the long standing shortcomings drawbacks and limitations of flexure caused by normal acceleration with the subsurface horizontal slotted indentations that serve to remove mass from the resonator structure. By removing mass from the resonator structure the subsurface horizontal slotted indentations of the present invention provide a lightweight device that also reduces the body force that ordinarily drives flexural deformation. This invention s use of multiple subsurface horizontal indentations together with the additional support provided by the stiffening layers and adhesive advantageously decreases unwanted flexural deformation to a level below that experienced by prior art devices without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art devices.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide a restrained surface wave resonator with reduced acceleration sensitivity which attacks all of the above problems and provides a complete restraint system that eliminates the known practical barriers to its full deployment.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a restrained surface wave resonator having a stiffening layer adhesive and subsurface horizontal indentations to provide reduced acceleration sensitivity.

It is still another object of the present invention to provide a restrained surface wave resonator with multiple subsurface horizontal indentations in the substrate stiffening layers and adhesive layers to provide increased structural rigidity decreased sensitivity to in plane deformations a lightweight device and reduced deleterious effects from environmental shocks and vibration.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a restrained surface wave resonator with multiple substrate subsurface horizontal indentations stiffening layers and adhesive layers to provide increased structural rigidity decreased sensitivity to in plane deformations a lightweight device and reduced deleterious effects from environmental shocks and vibration without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art piezoelectric packaging arrangements.

These and other objects and advantages are provided by the restrained surface wave resonators of the present invention comprising a substrate with multiple subsurface horizontal indentations in one major substrate surface deposited on a stiffening layer a circuit board and multiple adhesive layers. The substrate with its multiple subsurface horizontal slotted indentations provides improved structural rigidity against flexure caused by normal acceleration based upon the diminished mass and reduced weight resulting from removal of portions of the substrate subsurface through micro machining and it also tends to improve excessive sensitivity to other flexural deformations without suffering from the disadvantages shortcomings and limitations of prior art packaging arrangements. The present invention encompasses a restrained surface wave resonator device and a restrained surface wave resonator system.

The various embodiments of the restrained surface wave resonator devices structures and systems of the present invention comprise depositing a metallization layer a substrate and a stiffening layer on a circuit board with the substrate having multiple subsurface horizontal slotted indentations in one of its major surfaces along with several layers of adhesive for added rigidity. In accordance with the present invention the substrate its multiple subsurface horizontal indentations the stiffening and adhesive layers provide significantly improved structural rigidity against flexure caused by normal acceleration and a substantial decrease in excessive sensitivity to other flexural deformations by advantageously removing mass from the substrate thereby reducing the mass weight and the body forces that typically drive flexural deformations.

Referring now to the drawings depicts one embodiment of the restrained surface wave resonator system of the present invention. The restrained surface wave resonator system with abated acceleration sensitivity comprises depositing metallization layers on a first major surface of a substrate . A first adhesive layer fastens the substrate to a stiffening layer . The stiffening layer is attached to a circuit board with a second adhesive layer . The electrode metallization layers are connected to a circuit trace with a pair of wire bonds . The substrate has multiple subsurface horizontal indentations etched or micro machined into the second major substrate surface. The subsurface horizontal indentations are separated by structural support members which provide additional structural stability to the substrate reduced mass and a lighter weight resonator system . The structural support members can be seen in more detail in .

The second major surface of substrate includes multiple subsurface horizontal indentations which are micro machined slots or voids that remove portions of the substrate material from substrate . By micro machining a major surface of substrate the multiple subsurface horizontal slotted indentations allow for improved structural rigidity and prevent or substantially diminish flexure caused by normal acceleration due to the removal of mass and reduced weight by virtue of the indentations . Structural members retain essentially the same structural stiffness of the un machined regions of the major surface while the reduction in mass and weight resulting from the micro machining reduces the body force driving flexural deformation. Thus the tendency of substrate toward flexural deformation is greatly reduced as compared to the prior art arrangement. Micro machining one major surface of substrate allows for improved structural rigidity with respect to flexure and shear that are caused by in plane acceleration in a similar fashion to the improved structural rigidity achieved with respect to the unwanted normal accelerations. The micro machining of one major surface of substrate can be accomplished by any number of techniques known to those skilled in the art including wet and dry etching and micromachining techniques.

In operation the first and second adhesive layers and cooperate with the stiffening layer to further isolate substrate from flexural deformations of circuit board . This occurs through a proper selection of the material properties of the stiffener and adhesives. The stiffening layer needs to be composed of a material that is substantially more rigid than the circuit board . The stiffener will typically be more rigid than the substrate but this is not a requirement and there are advantages to using a crystal substrate structure that is more rigid than the stiffener. One preferred material for the stiffening layer is alumina ceramic. The stiffening layer should be formed from a lightweight structure with its own slotted indentations and structural elements similar to those of substrate . The multiple subsurface horizontal indentations in the second major surface of substrate serve to reduce the contact area between substrate and the first adhesive layer . The reduced adhesive contact area increases the force per unit area transferred to the first adhesive layer in the contact area which causes an increased relative deformation of the first adhesive layer and enhanced isolation of the substrate . The same effect should also occur for an appropriately shaped stiffening layer and second adhesive layer . These components work together to reduce the deformation of the crystal substrate as follows when subjected to an acceleration normal to the plane of the crystal plate the circuit board stiffener crystal substrate and adhesive layers and experience body forces proportional to their masses. These forces are minimized by minimization of their masses through micromachining. The circuit board will flex but the stiffener will flex less since it is both stiffer and attached using soft adhesive layers and . The crystal resonator can be further isolated from the flexure of the stiffener by using a soft adhesive.

A number of variations to the restrained surface wave resonator system of the present invention. For example the subsurface horizontal slotted indentations can either be etched or micro machined into one of the major surfaces of the substrate. Or a suitable restrained surface wave resonator could be mounted inside a hermetically sealed package which in turn is mounted on the circuit board instead of having the resonator and other layers mounted directly on the circuit board. Other variations include alternative choices in the relative stiffnesses of the various layers in order to minimize the deformation of the crystal substrate. These selections will involve trade offs in material stiffness and structural design against size and mass. For example it may be possible to fabricate a crystal substrate structure with greater rigidity than that of the stiffener in which case soft adhesive should be used whereas in another choice where the crystal substrate is made thinner and thus less rigid than the stiffener a relatively more rigid adhesive should be used.

These embodiments of the present invention are intended to be illustrative and not limiting with respect to the variety of possible embodiments. It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description of the restrained surface wave resonator devices and methods and are all considered to be within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components geometrical arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

