---

title: Sales force automation and method
abstract: A salesforce automation system which integrates computerized, intelligent automated salesperson support for multiple phases of the sales process. Various subsystems may be provided to facilitate the sales process which may include pre-sales lead generation, maximize time spent with the customer, effectively manage an order, ensure customer satisfaction and retain the customer for future sales. Also provided to support the phases of the sales process are additional tools, integrated in the system. The additional tools may include self management subsystems, sales management subsystems and training subsystems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07949578&OS=07949578&RS=07949578
owner: SFA Systems, LLC
number: 07949578
owner_city: Marshall
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071030
---
This application is a Divisional Application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 537 953 filed Oct. 2 2006 entitled Sales Force Automation System and Method which is a Continuation Application of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 566 872 filed May 8 2000 entitled Computer Readable Data Product for an Integrated Computerized Sales Force Automation System now abandoned which is a Continuation Application of U.S. application Ser. No. 08 550 089 filed Oct. 30 1995 entitled Integrated Computerized Sales Force Automation System now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 067 525 on May 23 2000. This application hereby incorporates in their entireties the disclosures of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 537 953 U.S. application Ser. No. 09 566 872 and U.S. application Ser. No. 08 550 089.

The present invention is directed to a sales force automation system and more particularly to an automated sales system which facilitates the sale of an item or service by intelligently integrating into a single system tools used by a salesperson in the sales process

Most conventional sales systems have been implemented in a limited manner and are typically directed solely to a particular event task or small subset of tasks in the sales process. Such systems are constructed by examining a particular sales event and by developing an automated tool to assist the salesperson confronted by the particular event. Such systems are individually developed without regard for other events occurring in the overall sales process in which the salesperson is engaged. As a result conventional systems fail to provide full support for the salesperson.

Conventional lead management systems have been developed for example to assist sales personnel in developing customer leads into potential customers. Such systems may use a letter library for producing mail merges to a list of leads. Such systems are developed for independent action and do not consider other events in sales process. For example no consideration is given to events occurring during the order management stage of the sales process where a purchased item or service purchased by the customer is actually being ordered processed built manufactured delivered etc.

Using conventional systems a salesperson may use the lead management system to prepare a mass mailing directed to specific types of customers having a particular need for a product. As a result of this mailing a certain number of customers may be attracted to the salesperson s product. If one of these customers purchases the item from the salesperson an order for the item must be generated and the salesperson must manage the order to insure proper delivery. Typically a separately developed order processing package is used by the salesperson to generate the order. The order processing package does not take into consideration information which may have been generated or available in the system during the initial mass mailing stage of the process. Even within the order management phase of the sales process different processing packages are often used to monitor the order process to ensure proper delivery is made.

Such conventional sales automation systems are often developed by separate vendors and as described above the vendors develop the systems in consideration of only that portion of the overall sales process in which the sales automation system is to be used. As a result the different systems are oftentimes incompatible with one another. This leads to an inefficient overall process and in many instances requires redundant information to be stored in multiple locations for use by the various systems. The use of multiple often incompatible sales tools throughout the sales process increases the costs associated with making the sale and lessens the likelihood of making the sale by diminishing the impact of the sales presentation and by failing to effectively use all of the information available to the salesperson.

Conventional attempts to couple different sales tools together have also failed to appreciate the overall sales process. Such multiple task systems typically take different conventional sales tools and tie them into a single system. However sales tools tied together in this manner still fail to appreciate the overall sales process and do not use valuable information obtained during the sales process as it is relevant to other phases of the sales process. Typically the individual tools of such systems are developed in consideration of only the particular event in the sales process for which the tool will be used.

Like the individual systems typical prior art multiple task sales tools are also developed without an appreciation for the complete sales process. Due to the lack of appreciation for the entire sales process such conventional systems do not use much of the information made available to the system upon occurrence of an event in the sales process. For example no consideration is given to how one event in the sales process relates to other tasks and events in the sales process. While a particular event occurring in one phase of the sales process may be relevant to tasks or events in another phase of the process conventional systems have failed to recognize the significance of the event or to use the information consistently throughout the sales process.

The following presents a simplified summary of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an exhaustive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is discussed later. In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a sales force automation system is used to generate a proposal in a sales process. The system includes a data component configured to store data developed and used in the sales process. This stored date may include data from a lead generation phase time with customer phase and purchase order management phase. The system also includes a communication component configured to support remote access communications with a back office system. A proposal software module is used to generate the proposal by retrieving data from the data component for the proposal. The software module is programmed to i tag features and benefits for the proposal ii tag competitive information for the proposal and iii create a customer solution. A management module is configured to detect a proposal generation and instruct a module in the back office system to update to reflect the proposal generation. The management module is configured to operate even when disconnected from the back office system such that data to instruct the module in the back office system to update is placed in the communication component and automatically transmitted at a next connected session with the back office system. In addition a method is described for generating a proposal using the sales force automation system components.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a sales force automation system is used to submit a purchase order in a sales process. The system includes a data component configured to store order requirements information configuration information from proposals and customer information. The system also includes a communication component configured to support remote access communications with a back office system. An order management software module is used to submit a purchase order by retrieving data from the data component. The software module is programmed to i check purchase order requirements based on order requirements information from the data component ii retrieve configuration information from a proposal iii retrieve customer information iv create a work session file used to manage information related to the purchase order. A management module is configured to detect a purchase order submittal process and instruct a module in a back office system to update a sales management forecast to reflect the purchase order submittal process. The management module is configured to operate even when disconnected from the back office system such that data to instruct the module in the back office system to update is placed in the communication component and automatically transmitted at a next connected session with the back office system. In addition a method is described for submitting a purchase order using the sales force automation system components.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a sales force automation system is used to update price information in a sales process. The system includes a data component configured to store price data. The system also includes a communication component configured to support remote access communications with a back office system. A management module is configured to detect a price information update from the back office system and update the price data stored in the data component and mark old information as invalid in a configuration database of the data component. The management module is configured to operate even when disconnected from the back office system such that a price information update in the back office system is received in the communication component and automatically processed at a next connected session with the back office system. In addition a method is described for updating price information using the sales force automation system components.

The present system is a fully integrated sales automation system in which each aspect of the entire system is integrated with each other aspect of the entire system to intelligently form a complete sales tool. The preferred system is constructed such that relative information generated or available as a result of an event occurring in any portion of the overall system is automatically reflected and used in a maximally efficient manner by all other portions of the system to which the information is relevant.

Exemplary components of a tool designed to support the complete sales process are illustrated in . A salesperson support system is made up of a number of different subsystems which generally relate to various phases of the sales process. The system as disclosed is divided into four core process components namely a Lead Generation component a Time with Customer component an Order Management component and a Customer Retention component . Additional support components may be integrated into the system to support the function and use of the core process components . For example in the disclosed embodiment three support process components provide support for the core process components . Support process components typically include a Self Management component a Sales Management component and a Training component . Two hardware or system components namely Data component and Communications component are provided in the preferred system for use by the core process components and support process components . Each of the core process components relate generally to a particular phase of the overall sales process from initial generation of a name as a lead to retention of a satisfied customer for future sales. The support process components relate generally to those tasks carried out by sales personnel throughout the entire sales process. The general functions and integration of the various components as implemented in the preferred embodiment are described more fully below.

The lead generation component is provided to assist sales personnel to identify leads to generate qualified leads and to begin the sales process. The lead generation component may include for example automated systems designed to assist the sales personnel in carrying out such tasks as telemarketing kiosk presentations trade show demonstrations database marketing electronic advertising etc. Data developed and used during the lead generation phase of the sales process is stored in and retrieved from a database in the data component . For example a kiosk may be set up at a trade show through which information such as names addresses and product interests of potential customers is gathered. This information is stored in a database of the data component of the system and is made available for use by other components of the system. Sales information currently available in a database such as information previously gathered purchased databases or previous customers may also be used in conjunction with the lead generation component to identify potential customers. For example such information may be used to generate an electronic mailing to potential leads. Such a process can be fully automated in accordance with parameters set by the salesperson using the system.

The lead generation component is intelligently integrated with the other components of the system to provide a complete system. As described more fully below the intelligent integration of the lead generation component with the rest of the system operates to recognize events occurring in the system which are relevant to functions of the lead generation component and may automatically implement such functions as appropriate.

The second core process component of the salesperson support system is the time with customer component . This component is used by the salesperson during the phase of the sales process which occurs from the time a qualified lead is identified to the time a sale is completed and an order is created. The time with customer component is in many respects the heart of the system since it is used by the salesperson at a time in the sales process where maximum payback is received. During this phase of the process the system assists salespeople in generating revenue by committing a customer to a specific purchase i.e. converting the lead into a purchasing customer.

The time with customer component may include a number of subcomponent modules each automated to assist sales personnel in efficiently performing their function during this important phase of the sales process. For example presentation and proposal modules assist the sales personnel to electronically give a presentation to a customer and prepare a proposal for the customer which reflects the presentation. Integration of these modules with other components and modules of the system provides for efficient generation of presentation and proposals which are tailored to the needs and preferences of the customer. As described more fully below the preferred system also intelligently recognizes significant events occurring during the time with customer phase of the sales process and informs other components of the system when the recognized event indicates other action should be taken.

Customer requirements modules configuration modules features and benefits modules performance modules quotation and financing modules life cycle modules services modules comparative presentation modules goods etc. provide assistance to sales personnel making the maximum amount of information regarding a potential product or service available to the potential customer in order to successfully complete the sales process. In a preferred system all such modules are integrated with each other as well as with the other components to permit an efficient exchange and use of information.

As conceptually illustrated in the time with customer component receives necessary information for example pricing and financing data from the data component and stores information obtained during the time spent with the customer such as the customer s particular needs and desires in the databases of the data component .

The order management component assists sales personnel in efficiently managing the critical sales process phase that encompasses the time between the purchase decision and the time the product or service is delivered. For some products or services this could be a short period of time while for others it may be many months or even years. The order management component allows the sales personnel to electronically manage changes and provide needed information to the customer during this critical time. Moreover by integrating the order management component with the time with customer component the actual order can be directly created from the proposal information. Furthermore in the preferred system any information related to the customer s specific needs or desires gleaned from the customer during the time with the customer phase of the sales process may be used by the order management component to ensure the needs and desires are met. For example if a change order is processed the changes may be automatically checked to evaluate their impact on any other needs of the customer.

The order management component may include for example subcomponent modules such as change order modules order status modules invoicing modules order acknowledgment modules etc. Each of the modules assist the sales personnel to electronically manage the order process. The order management component is also coupled to the data component so that change order information for example will be automatically reflected in the one or more databases of data component . In the preferred system the order management component is intelligently integrated with the other components of the system to recognize events occurring in the order management phase of the sales process.

A further core process component of preferred system is the customer retention component . This component assists sales personnel during the phase of the sales process after delivery of the service or product purchased by the customer. Component assists sales personnel in retaining a customer this is accomplished through processes that ensure a customer remains satisfied with the purchase decision and that increase repeat sales opportunities. For example in the customer retention component is shown as feeding back information via line to line connecting the lead generation component and the time with customer component . This diagrammatically illustrates an integration between the customer retention component as it is used to convert and satisfy the customer into a new potential customer. It is understood that the function of certain modules of the customer retention component and the lead generation component may overlap.

The customer retention component is also connected to store and retrieve data using the one or more databases of the data component . The customer retention component may include for example customer contact modules newsletter modules customer satisfaction modules after sales incentive modules customer business plan modules promotion modules etc. to facilitate its function of converting satisfied customers into repeat customers. As with the other components the customer retention component is intelligently integrated into the preferred system.

The support process components are provided to assist the sales personnel in more efficiently utilizing the core process components and in carrying out the tasks associated with the various phases of the sales process in an intelligently automated manner. The self management component assists sales personnel to manage their opportunities time contacts schedules goals tasks etc. This component is used by the salesperson as a support for each of the core process components . By way of example the sales management component may be intelligently integrated into the system to monitor for certain types of events occurring in the other system components and when such an event occurs in one component for example the time with customer component an automatic to do list is automatically generated in the self management component . The to do list represents actions which will need to be carried out as a result of the event using other components of the system such as the order management component . Thus the self management component both assists the sales personnel in utilizing the core process components of the salesperson support system and provides for increased integration of the complete system.

The sales management component supports the sales process by allowing sales managers access to current information from salespeople for which they have managing responsibilities. The sales management component may be implemented using client server technology to allow sales managers to electronically manage sales activities including coaching planning and forecasting even when sales personnel are away from the main office. As with the self management component the sales management component may be intelligently integrated to interact with each of the other components of the system. With such an implementation key sales events are recognized by the system and the sales management component automatically implements management tasks on the basis of these events.

A training component facilitates the sales process by electronically providing training activities. In the preferred system the training component is integrated to the entire system such that salespeople are trained on product knowledge sales skills and the system usage using computer based training without spending valuable time away from their sales territory. Moreover integration of training component with the core processing components as well as the self management component and the sales management component facilitates automated training exercises on how to effectively use of each of these components. By integrating training component with the data component training opportunities may be implemented using real information. For example if sales personnel are being trained to prepare customer proposals and orders actual up to date information and product descriptions can be used to ensure that the training process accurately reflects the actual sales process.

The preferred system also recognizes sales events which are significant to training and may automatically initiate certain training functions on the basis of these training events.

Preferred data component is an integral component of the salesperson support system . Each of the above described components are driven in some respect by data and information such as prices specifications competition features and benefits leads names financing sales programs etc. The data component provides for data management synchronization storage and distribution all of which are key to a fully integrated salesforce automation system.

The communications component also supports each of the above described components. This component may include for example electronic data and software distribution using client server messaging diskette and CD ROM technology. In many sales industries the sales personnel are widely distributed over large geographic territories. In such systems the communication component includes capabilities to support remote access communications including cellular networks and satellite communications. If the various components are implemented on different platforms communication between the platforms must also be handled. It is noted that each of the components and associated modules may be configured to operate in a multinational environment to facilitate sales in various countries.

The above described components provide support for the complete sales process. However each of the above described components may not be needed in a particular sales environment. Thus various subset combinations of the sales system can be constructed depending on the functionality requirements of the product or service to be sold. What is particularly advantageous however is that each of the components used in a particular sales system be fully integrated into a system which allows for a common exchange of relevant information between the various components used. The salesperson support system may be constructed using a foundation system described more fully below to which the various components can be loosely coupled as pluggable modules to from a customized integrated sales system.

A complete salesforce automation system as an exemplary embodiment of a preferred system is illustrated in . In the salesperson support system includes the above described components with slight modifications described below. also illustrates a server based back office system which provides support for the salesperson support system and includes a number of additional functions. As described below the back office system may be used by data maintenance and system administration personnel to facilitate the overall sales process by providing complete electronic support for salespeople using the salesperson support system . Preferred system integrates one or more of distributed system technology object oriented architecture multimedia presentation technology and workgroup workflow automation capabilities to provide a fully integrated computerized salesforce automation system. System may be implemented using distributed technology which enables salespeople to work using the salesperson support system while disconnected from the back office system . In this manner a salesperson is able to complete sales activities in any location at any time. A distributed technology implementation is particularly advantageous in sales industries where a number of salespeople are located at diverse geographic areas but require a significant amount of sales information to facilitate an effective sales presentation and complete the sale. Such a system preferably integrates all of the tools needed by the salesperson for the time spent with the customer as well as time away from the customer. The system further may be integrated with e mail and facsimile capabilities to provide a complete automated sales tool.

As illustrated in each of the various components of the salesperson support system are communicatively coupled to an event manager A via respective lines and . The various components of the salesperson support system communicate with the event manager using respective application programming interfaces APIs . The event manager A intelligently controls the flow of data and other information through the system. For example data required by or input through one of the components will be handled by the event manager to retrieve or store the data from and to a database of the data component A.

As described more fully below the event manager A provides intelligent integration of the components of the system. The event manager A recognizes events occurring in the system and determines on the basis of the event and the context in which the event occurs what if any other actions or operations should be carried out by the system. If actions are necessary the event manager A notifies the appropriate component of the needed action grants the component access to any needed data or other information and instructs the component to carry out the operation.

Certain types of data are typically made available to the various component in various forms. For example one component may have rights to alter data stored in a local storage area of the data component. Other components may be granted limited access to view such data but will not be allowed to alter the data. The event manager A also controls access to the data and oversees the transfer of information between the various components.

The event manager A also recognizes when a particular operation in one component requires a component in different module and handles the communication between the two components. The intelligent integration of the various components and modules of the system under operation of the event manager is described more fully below.

The salesperson support system also includes a system administration subsystem connected to the event manager A. This subsystem includes a tool box manager for handling administrative functions such as setting user passwords managing default settings performing update processes etc.

As illustrated in the data component is comprised of a data component A directly supporting the salesperson support system and a data component B supporting the operations and functions implemented in the back office system . As described more fully below each of the data components A and B include one or more databases holding sales related information. Further some data may be stored in both systems in order to maximize the efficient operation of the system.

Portions of the communications component also reside in both the salesperson support system and the back office support system . Communications component A located in the salesperson support system is communicatively coupled to the communication component B of the back office system . The particular type of communicative coupling between the salesperson support system and the back office support system will depend on the physical proximity of the two systems.

The communications component B of the back office system is linked to the event manager B. The event manager B handles information processed in the back office system . The event manager B intelligently integrates the various components of the back office system . The event managers A and B perform similar operations for their respective systems. Sales information is exchanged between the two systems as needed using the communications components A and B.

The back office system includes a number of subsystems designed to further facilitate and support the sales process. A system administration subsystem is provided to administer the back office system . This subsystem allows a system administrator to manage the administration of users and the system. The subsystem includes tools to define names addresses security rules passwords version control geography etc. The system administration subsystem is also used to handle distribution of data updates functional updates as well as version creation and management of the overall system . A report manager tool is also provided in the system administration subsystem to handle audit reports data books and other documents.

A data tools subsystem is provided in the back office system . As described more fully below the data tools subsystem is used to edit and maintain data within the system. The data tools subsystem may be integrated into the functionality of the various sales system components. In such a system users having access rights granted may gain access to the data tools subsystem which using the system.

A system tools subsystem is provided to facilitate the creation and management of reports and templates screen terminology and system default values. An enterprise systems subsystem is provided to manage enterprise information. The back office system may also include a dealer business subsystem which includes a data manager for handling dealer inventory customer data credit approval service records purchase histories etc.

As illustrated in the sales management component may be provided in both the salesperson support system sales management component A and the back office system sales management component B . Depending upon the particular sales industry sales managers may be located at the home office or may be mobile. When the sales manager is located at the home office principle functions of the sales management component reside in the sales management component B and the sales management component A contains the necessary support functions to facilitate electronic management of the salesperson using the salesperson support system . When the sales manager is located away from the home office the sales manager can use the sales management component A to access the sales management component B and perform managing duties. As needed the functions of the sales management operations may be provided in the system used by the remotely located sales management personnel.

The various components and subsystems illustrated in may be implemented as software modules executing on general purpose computers. Alternatively separate processors or computing platforms may be used for each component of the system or for various combinations of components. When for example the salesperson support system is detached from the back office system separate processor elements must be used by the systems. However a single processor such as a mini mainframe connected to a number of individual terminals can be used when the salespeople are all located in a close proximity. For example a number of automobile salespeople may be located a single dealership each having their own terminal to support their sales activities.

It is noted that system is particularly adaptable for use by sales personnel which must travel over wide geographic areas. A portable computer may be used to implement the salesperson support system which has full functionality when detached from the back office system . The portable computer may be communicatively coupled via the communications subcomponents A and B to the back office system as needed to update data and exchange sales information. In this manner the system provides complete automated support for the entire sales process even while traveling away from the home office. The salesperson may travel to the customers facilities where he can utilize up to date prices and availability deliver presentations and generate proposals in a highly automated and efficient manner. This greatly increases the salesperson s opportunity for closing a sale with the customer. In addition since each sales event in the sales process uses the system the system can recognize the occurrence of the events and initiate any further action dictated by the event.

The operation of the various components of the system will be better understood by reference to the following exemplary embodiment. It is noted however the subcomponent modules and features described below in connection with the various components may alternatively be provided in other components of the system or in more than one component. The description is provided to demonstrate how the various components are integrated into a complete salesforce automation system. It is also noted that the system can be used to sell any kind of service or product. For ease of illustration specific examples related to the use of the system in selling motor vehicles are used. The concepts disclosed herein however can be implemented in other types of sales processes without departing from the invention.

As illustrated the kiosk module may include a stand alone kiosk station operating pursuant to kiosk software interfaced through the event manager to the rest of the system to receive data regarding a potential customers. This data is then commonly available to the other components of the system and their respective subcomponent modules. Alternative to a stand alone station the portable computer of the salesperson can be used as part of a kiosk type interface with potential customers. Such a kiosk interface could be set up in locations where potential customers might be found.

The lead generation component directed primarily to pre sales activities and includes a number of modules that may be installed at various sites for the purpose of providing sales information with or without a salesperson present. These modules facilitate the connection of lead information that can be provided to the appropriate salesperson. Remote sites include trade shows kiosks Internet Web sites or electronic advertising. The lead generation component is highly integrated with the time with customer component and the self management component . All three of these components share a common functionality and are utilized to disseminate the higher quality leads from the lead qualification process.

The lead generation component also includes the ability to process and or receive lead data from other enterprise systems such as telemarketing telesales or customer service records.

As illustrated in the lead generation component is integrated to the other components of the system via the event manager A. The intelligent operation of the event manager A allows information and interests provided to the lead generation component by a prospective customer to be transferred to the other components of the salesperson system for action or follow up. Similarly information developed using other components for example the time with customer component can be reused by the lead generation component to generate additional leads. The event manager A may intelligently recognize an event occurring while the salesperson is using the time with customer component which suggests that the particular customer may be prospective lead for another type of service or product. This information can be transferred to the lead generation component so that the prospective lead can be used for further action by the salesperson when using the lead generation component .

The kiosk module illustrated in is utilized at public forums where the salesperson may not necessarily be present. An interactive format is provided most commonly with touch screen interface to generate interest by the prospective customer and collect customer information. The kiosk module may run disconnected from any remote data source or may be implemented in real time utilizing two way data sharing across a network communications provider.

The Web site module may utilize much of the same functionality and interface used by the salesperson when using the time with customer component described more fully below . The Web site component while providing an interactive information supply to the Web site user collects information about the user which is provided to the salesperson in the form of a lead. The lead information provided to the salesperson may include a profile of the product or service selected by the prospective customer lead for follow up sales activity by the salesperson.

A telemarketing module is provided to integrate the system with enterprise telemarketing functionality. Data received through the enterprise telemarketing functionality is recognized by the event manager A and is provided directly to the salesperson via the self management component .

As described above the time with customer component is used by salespeople when they are with a customer or preparing a proposal or presentation for a customer in order to generate a sale of the product or service. The integrated subcomponent modules facilitate interaction between the salesperson and the customer through the sales process to develop specific solutions that meet the customers needs thereby enabling the salesperson to close the sale as described below.

The product module is designed to present a variety of product information to the customer using a combination of text graphic illustrations motion video and sound. The product module allows the user i.e. salesperson to present product manufacturer competitive comparison dealership and salesperson information to the customer. The product information may be set up in a table of contents format including paging and search functionality to facilitate the retrieval of product information for display to the customer. The product information module may include a number of viewers engines and communications modules. The viewers may include a text view graphics illustration view a motion view and a video and sound view. A product information engine may be provided. In the communications portion of the product module communication with other portions of the system is provided. The product information module allows an interactive presentation for display of product information to the potential customer rather than a fixed sequential series of slides. The module presents information formatted in graphical features and benefits styles.

The product module when incorporating the competitive comparison module also provides the ability to present the company s product information side by side with a competitor s product information. The module supports various states including graphic states e.g. still animation movies sound white papers etc. and has the capability of importing selected standard graphic formats e.g. BMP PCX etc. as well as using selective presentation software output e.g. PowerPoint Freelance etc. . The product information module also includes the capability of merging the specifications of a selected unit into either pre defined formats or user defined formats to facilitate bid specification creation. It also provides access to dealer information and salesperson information during this phase of the sales process.

The product module is integrated to the rest of the system via the event manager A and includes the capability of exporting a sample of any information to the proposal module and or presentation module for use as described fully below. The information generated may be tagged using the product module and automatically inserted as a section of a proposal generated using the proposal module .

The product module may also be provided with the ability to print any of the information presented export text based information to a text file format and graphic based information to a graphic file format for use by word processing software and graphic editing software respectively. Fax modem and e mail functions are built into the module to communicate the generated information between the customer and the salesperson.

The customer module is used by the salesperson to facilitate gathering of customer specific information that is used throughout the sales system for example in printed material and on order creation templates. Depending upon the specific industry in which the customer module is designed for use the information may include data such as the customer s current units required performance standards account type or family as well as the standard information including names addresses phone numbers etc. The customer module also allows the user to enter free form notes related to a particular customer s needs proposal or presentation. The customer module is integrated to the rest of the system via the event manager A for a common exchange of information. For example data from the self management component of the system and may be used to populate the customer information from the self management component .

The customer module typically includes reporting capabilities to print the customer information collected which can also be tagged and printed as a section of a proposal generated using the proposal module . The customer module may also be programmed with customized API integration capabilities to allow the system to be used with contact management programs developed by other vendors e.g. ACT or Gold Mine. As with the other components and modules the event manager recognizes events in the sales process evaluates the events and initials appropriate action.

The configuration module is comprised of multiple engines APIs and various other subcomponents each optimized for a particular portion of the configuration process. The configuration module is supported by a data manager and editor provided in the data tools subsystem of the back office system described more fully below . The configuration module receives data from a compiled run time version database located in data component A. The run time version database is built from an open product knowledge database located in the data component B while the two systems are connected. The salesperson uses the configuration module to accurately configure and price a product that passes engineering manufacturing and customer requirements. As with the other modules the results can be tagged and automatically included in a proposal presentation and or order submitted to the factory.

The configuration module may be implemented on a portable computer allowing the salesperson to configure product or service information at any time or place even while disconnected from the back office system . The configuration module is interactive checking for option and pricing relationships and updating unit status after each selection. In this manner the unit being configured is accurate at all points during the sales process. Using the construction described herein very short response time to support operations are provided when the salesperson is with the customer. Such a system may perform all option and pricing checks within one to three seconds after a selection is made.

As noted above configuration module may be built around a small secure encrypted run time database. A typical configuration database of the data component A without images will be approximately one to two MB assuming 5 000 options with 20 million configuration possibilities . The configuration module may also be used to provide simulated performance results based on the configuration selected. Sales functions such as inventory locators and supplier inserts information provided by third party manufacturer suppliers may also be integrated into the module to support the sales process.

Once a product is configured the configuration module may be used to carry out performance simulations for the product to determine if the product meets the customer s needs or desires. For example the configuration module may be used to configure a truck for a customer. Once the truck is configured a performance simulation may be carried out to determine if the configured truck meets customer s needs. The customer may need the truck to be able to haul a certain size load up a particular grade at a specified speed. The configuration module will simulate the performance characteristics for the configured truck to see if it meets this criterion.

The quotation module facilitates calculation and preparation of a bottom line quotation thus enabling the salesperson to provide the customers immediate and accurate quotes for one or more units. Unit price quantity tradein value discounts fees and taxes are all taken into consideration in order to present an accurate and consistent quote. The quotation module may include quotation module worksheet that is able to calculate a quote price based on profitability requirements.

The quotation module automatically provides defaults parameters and tax formulas which can be established using a tool box in the system administration subsystem to prompt for specific information required to accurately and consistently calculate a quotation. The quotation module is integrated to the configuration module to allow the salesperson to quote a unit specified in the configuration module if desired. The quotation module is also fully integrated with the rest of the system to allow the salesperson to apply purchase incentive programs and discounts on a fixed dollar or percentage basis. Fees can be added to the quote on a fixed dollar or percentage basis from a list established using the tool box of the system administration subsystem or added uniquely to the particular quotation.

The quotation module may also be provided with the ability to include trade in information entered by the user. Alternatively a separate trade in module may be provided in the time with customer component to directly assist the salesperson in gathering information regarding a unit the customer wishes to trade in. The information collected may include any necessary repairs or reconditioning required to bring the unit to a saleable condition lineholder information and an evaluation process. Using such information an accurate value for the trade in can be automatically generated. Depending upon the specific industry a variety of forms and reports can be made available and printed to assist with this process.

The quotation module also provides utilities for calculating tax formulas as a percentage of unit price percentage of unit less trade in allowance or net or a flat amount. Specific various dollar ranges for the tax can also be applied e.g. 1 k on zero dollars to 15 000 10 on 15 001 to 30 000 etc. . The quotation module may also include profitability worksheets to facilitate the calculation of a effects of miscellaneous costs on the bottom line. The parameters for the worksheet can be set using the system administration tool box. Profitability functionality may be used to determine a price based on desired profit percentage unit costs or flat product amounts.

As with the other modules the quote module is intelligently integrated to the rest of the system via the event manager A. The event manager may recognize that a firm quote has been given to a potential customer using the quote module . In an environment where product quantities are limited the event manager may notify the back office system which in turn may automatically generate an order to increase the inventory on hand. Such an intelligent operation may be further enhanced using knowledge of how many firm quotes result in actual purchases. For example the system may monitor the quote module and order extra inventory every third quote when experience has indicated that one out of three quotes results in an order.

The finance module may be comprised of multiple engines provided to assist the salesperson in quickly calculating and presenting finance and lease alternatives to customers based on information collected from other modules. The finance module may include the ability to select from preset plans calculate and customize plans compare various plans solve for financial goals and print reports and forms. The finance module can be used to generate a plan consisting of three groups of data reflecting 1 values that accumulate in the amount financed 2 financial parameters and 3 a payment schedule which is generated using a payment calculation engine.

Various financing plans can be generated by corporate personnel using the back office system and distributed to salespeople during connect sessions with the salesperson support system . Alternatively plans may be created by the salesperson using the tool box. Defaults and limitations can also be controlled at either level. The finance module provides the ability to apply business rules desired by the company to the proposed financing options presented by the salesperson. Again the financing module is fully integrated to the system such that presentations and proposals as well as order management and customer retention tasks are integrated with the finance options selected.

The finance module may be used to assist the salesperson to edit the amount financed variables including price net trade value cash down requirements insurance fees etc. The salesperson may also be able to edit finance parameter variables such as interest rates payment schedule dates payment frequency payment method terms and options. The various payment method alternatives include standard irregular blended rate variable rate skip accelerated step rent and fixed principal.

The finance module also assists the salesperson in providing leasing information to the customer. The system allows the salesperson to edit the amount leased variables including capitalized costs acquisition fees insurance fees lease rates payment factors payment schedules payment methods security deposits and taxes and fees to present various lease options.

A payment calculation engine is used by the finance module to utilize information provided by the plans and return a payment scheduled based on the actuarial general equation. A plan analysis engine is used to calculate and evaluate various characteristics of a plan such as amortization payment goals net present value internal rate of return and finance income. The finance module also allows the salesperson to display simultaneous comparisons of various plans of any type and key elements of the plans or print the information in a report. A fit your budget engine can also be provided in the finance module which qualifies a customer s purchase price range monthly payment range or cash down requirements. The information entered using the finance module is fully integrated to the other components and modules in the system. For example selected financing options may be incorporated into a proposal generated using the proposal module .

A life cycle cost module is provided to prepare a comprehensive analysis of the cost associated with utilizing a product over a time period. The analysis may include a comparison to an existing product competitor s product or the same product financed differently. The product analysis may incorporate both fixed and variable costs to demonstrate to the customer the overall impact of a purchase decision including owning costs operating costs maintenance costs and depreciation. Graphic presentations of the results may be generated to display side by side competitive analysis of cash flow and annual savings. As with the other modules this module is fully integrated to the rest of the system for intelligent interaction via the event manager A.

The presentation module and proposal module provide a similar function of effectively presenting a solution to the customers needs. The presentation module assists the salesperson in converting the proposed solution to the customer s needs into an effective presentation for use while with the customer. Even the most effective customer solutions will not be sold unless properly presented to the customer. The presentation module provides highly automated presentation generation which draws upon information obtained from other modules and components of the system. The module is designed to allow the user to specify organize and create a high quality interactive presentation based on the information collected from the customer canned information about the product or service offered as well as any other information which the salesperson imports into the sales system. Pre defined templates are provided to facilitate the format of the buyer specific contents. Editing capabilities can also be provided for sections of the presentation to enhance flexibility.

The presentation module is preferably implemented using easy to use user interface such as a drag and drop interface for selection of presentation sections and sequences. This eliminates cut and paste tasks by the salesperson. Because the information is generated by the fully integrated system automatic preparation of presentations can be implemented without any modification of the data previously entered. The system may utilize all media formats including text graphical images video and sound to provide the presentation. The presentation is preferably provided interactive and non sequential to allow the salesperson to move from one topic to another as desired and dictated by the customer s needs. Pre defined as well as user defined presentation templates can be easily created to build consistent presentation formats based on buyer type product or any specific selling situation. The complete presentation may be previewed and edited on screen. The overall system is controlled by a system administrator using the back office system . As described above the material content for the presentation is automatically created on the basis of information collectable while the salesperson is interacting with the customer in other modules of the system.

While an effective presentation is a key aspect to the sales process salespeople are often unable to get face to face with the final decision maker. Thus some people who are involved in the buying decision may not have viewed the presentation presented using the presentation module . The information developed during the sales process by the salesperson must be presented to such people in a printed proposal form. For this purpose the proposal module is provided. The proposal module automatically converts the customer solution developed using the other components and modules into a high quality personalized printed proposal including colors and graphics.

As with the presentation the proposal generated using the proposal module contains information generated or presented to the customer using other modules of the sales system. As described above while using the other modules of the system information may have been tagged for use in a proposal. The information is automatically generated and incorporated into the proposal by the proposal module .

Many of the tools provided in the presentation module are also provided in the proposal module such as an easy to use user interface predefined and user defined templates etc. The system allows for preview of the report on screen and appropriate editing capability. The fully integrated system facilitates the salesperson s preparation of the proposal while the user is interacting with the customer for example using the various modules of the system. Accordingly at the conclusion of a meeting with the customer a complete customized proposal can be generated using all the information obtained from the customer throughout the process.

The proposal and presentation modules and are integrated with the rest of the system via the event manager A. The system recognizes key sales events as described above. For example the generation of a proposal may automatically generate a follow up to do list in the self management portion of the system. Additionally the system may recognize the significance of proposal generation and note in the lead generation component the name of a customer and the type of product or service the customer is interested in. This information can be used to generate automatic mailings to the customer about new related products.

The order creation and submittal module is provided as part of the order management component to facilitate creation and submission of an order by adding any addition information to a proposal or quote required by the company s order fulfillment process such as bill to ship to deliver instructions etc. All information previously entered via the other components and modules of the system as relevant to the order will automatically be reflected in the order creation and submission module . For example product and option data for the order are obtained from the configuration module of the time with customer component to prevent errors in the order process. The module may prompt the salesperson for all additional required information and provide error checking and acceptance criteria to ensure adequate customer solutions are provided. The order acknowledgement module receives an order acknowledgement which is passed back to the user through the communications component in the back office system .

An order status module is provided to allow the salesperson to inquire and monitor the status of an order at any time throughout the order process. The module may include facilities for automatically generating a periodic report for the salesperson to monitor the status of outstanding orders.

The change order module allows the salesperson to request changes to orders that have already been submitted to the manufacturer. This module may be integrated via the back office system with the enterprise order fulfillment process. Product and option data for a revised order may be provided from the configuration module to prevent errors. For example the configuration module can be used when a change is requested to ensure that the change to the order does not affect other components of the ordered product. This information may then be directly passed to the change order module of the order management component for preparation and submission of a change order. The user is again prompted for all required information. Alternatively the change orders may be produced directly in the change order module with the change order module being integrated to the configuration module automatically checking the changed configuration for compatibility. Error checking and acceptance criteria can be applied to the changed order by the system to ensure adequate customer satisfaction.

The event manager A recognizes order events and initiates appropriate action. For example the event manager may recognize an order for a customer and pass the customer name and product ordered to lead generation component . Like the proposal the order process may indicate a customer s potential interest in other related products. The event manager will further note the context in which a customer is linked to a product. A customer who has ordered a product is different than one who merely requested a proposal. While both information is useful the event manager A recognizes the context in which the information was obtained and can automatically generate different responses based on the context. The event manager may also determine by accessing customer information databases whether the order is submitted by an existing customer on a first time purchase. If the order comes from a first time purchase a letter can be automatically generated which reflects the new customer status.

The customer satisfaction module is connected to the event manager A for integration with the self management component . The self management component provides the functionality for the user to track and schedule the customer retention activities and objectives established using the customer satisfaction module . It is noted that the event manager A will recognize operations carried in the customer satisfaction module the context in which the plan is developed and may direct the self management component to automatically insert tasks and to do lists to assist the salesperson in following the plan.

The newsletters component provides a mechanism for the system to generate and mail out newsletters to customers based on the information about the customer available within the databases of the data component . For example the event manager may automatically recognize an event which occurs during the sales process with a potential customer and notify the newsletter module of the customer retention component to place the particular customer on a newsletter mail out list.

The customer contact module assists the salesperson in remaining aware at all times of any contact or activity between a customer and the company such as warranty service marketing responses and customer support. The event manager A recognizes such events within the system and notifies the customer contact module . The salesperson may use the customer contact module to review such contact with a particular customer. Information collected through other enterprise systems may also be transferred to the sales system to monitor ongoing customer satisfaction and new sales opportunities on the basis of information gathered via the other enterprise system.

Through the event manager A the subcomponent modules of the self management component can be accessed as needed while using other components of the system. For example the opportunity management module can be accessed by the salesperson to assist in the time consuming tasks of prioritizing opportunities managing the sales process communicating results forecasting reviewing progress managing customer information and analyzing markets. As an integrated system each of these task may be used as needed to effectively self manage the salesperson s time. Due to integration with the sales management component the information can also be reviewed by the sales management team to help monitor the sales process and ensure that objectives are met.

Each of the subcomponent modules of the self management component is optimized for use with other modules of the sales system. The self management component is used by the salesperson to manage opportunities objectives territory information contacts accounts schedules goals and tasks. The self management module performs interactively with each of the other components for example with the time with customer and order management components to recognize events and process information without requiring reentry by the salesperson. The self management component further supports team selling workgroups and workflow environments. It further provides an intuitive solution for managing account relationships opportunities and sales processes and information management. A flexible data architecture is used which allows information to be presented the way the user needs the information for a particular opportunity. Direct integration with word processing software is provided to develop correspondence access templates and create unique reports. The self management component also supports e mail and fax functions for the rapid distribution of information and correspondence to customers. By way of example various subcomponent modules of the self management component are described below.

The contact management module is provided to assist the salesperson in receiving sending creating maintaining and managing information related to contacts and organizations e.g. companies groups firms etc. . The contact management module utilizes a relational data architecture which supports the ability to track and manage unique relationships of contacts channels and organizations. A user interface which provides rapid access to account and contact information is incorporated into the contact management module . An integrated communication facility provides the ability to receive leads from other data sources such as telemarketing i.e. from the lead generation component and other workgroups. The contact and organization information as updated using the contact manager module is utilized by other components to avoid reentry by the user. Information shared by the back office system and enterprise system provides account specific historical data. The system is further customizable by the salesperson providing user definable fields that allow personal tailoring of information managed in the module.

A time management module is also provided in the self management component . The time management module allows the user to manage their schedule and tasks. Integration of the time management module with other modules and components of the system allows the system to enhance the salesperson s ability to manage multiple tasks and events. Activated process steps in the objective management module described below are automatically scheduled for action in the time management module . The time management module supports multiple calendar views including daily weekly monthly views. A user interface having the ability to drag and drop tasks to a date for scheduling is provided. The time management module also provides direct integration with an e mail system to receive or send group scheduling requests and meeting arrangements. A task management subcomponent of the time management module provides the capability to implement group tasks by project priority account and dates.

An objective management module allows the salesperson to assign a process i.e. a series of steps to a given sales objective. The objective management module provides a structured sales process for the salesperson by integrating the best knowledge and expertise of an organization s best selling strategies. The salesperson is able to view guidelines and recommendations for each step and recommendations to overcome possible obstacles to move a prospect through a sales cycle. Critical sales information and opportunity status is communicated between the sales personnel and management by the integration of the objective management module of the self management component and the sales management component .

Using the objective management module sales process steps and guidelines may be uniquely developed for each type of sales opportunity. The module may include a checklist feature that allows the user to utilize forms and lists to gather a uniform set of information needed for each opportunity or account profile. The salesperson may customize or insert additional process steps for a given opportunity. The system may automatically calculate the probability of closing the sale with the date and value of each opportunity and process and consider both the sales status and the customer s buying status. The integration with other components of the system allow the salesperson to quickly access opportunity activity and value. The integrated automated support of opportunity management is facilitated by recognition of key opportunity events such as proposal creation and order entry via the event manager A or automatically initiate other actions within the system.

A forecasting module is also provided within the self management component . The forecasting module provides functional and product forecast information to the salesperson related to sales revenue commission and profit sorted by accounts or products identified in the sort criteria. The forecasting capability provides information to the salesperson to enhance planning and prioritization of efforts. Integration with the sales system allows the forecasting module to present information based on model components customer time and other criteria.

The forecasting module also provides the salesperson with automatic reporting capabilities including win loss ratios actual versus goals commissions and period to date status. Opportunity status may be presented on a system calculated or a user estimated basis. The module utilizes data for closed sales data for opportunities with a stated prediction of close or data for a combination of both as received from other components of the system to generate forecast reports. The module produces graphical and tabular displays of reported information. Forecast related data is made available for use by enterprise information management systems by the forecast module.

Each of the training modules and are computer based training modules which present pre built computer based training courses to the user and which gather completion data for training administration and status reporting. The modules access reformat and present product data from the common database. Data can include for example specifications graphics multimedia and competitive information. The ability of the computer based training to access the actual working modules of the sales system provide a familiar working interface to the user. The training component is further supported by a training administration module a training management module and a certification module . The training management module illustrated in will typically reside in the sales management component of the system. The training management module is used by the system to report monitor and coach the salesperson during training. Training events carried out by the salesperson are recognized by the event manager A and provided to the training management module .

As described above the training component is integrated to the other components of the sales system to provide a common user interface and a common platform for training and selling. Common data and media graphics video etc. utilization with the time with customer component provide common reference material and reduce local storage requirements. The training administration module typically provided when in the self management component is further integrated to allow the user to manage their own training and self improvement requirements. Integrated with the modules of the time with customer component the certification module certifies salesperson for use of the system for particular products lines or data and can require certain pre determined levels of competency before access to the modules within the time with customer component is granted.

The training administration module provides an overview of the user s employee development requirements i.e. required training events the associated certification tests and the recommended sequence of progression. This module controls access to the user s individual training events based upon prerequisites and the individual s completion of those prerequisites as determined by the certification tests carried out in the certification module . It also provides a link to the training and test engine of the system.

The training administration module is integrated with the objective management module of the self management component . In this manner the module allows the assignment and tracking of personal training objectives and schedules. The training administration module identifies both required and optional training events which may be driven by the salesperson s actual usage of the system. The system may automatically notify the user of scheduled training events or performance evaluations and will automatically update the user s time management module of the self management component .

The certification testing module presents skill or knowledge certification tests to the user scores responses provides review or remediation suggestions and gathers the necessary information used for training administration and reporting. The knowledge tests generated by the certification module are computer generated multiple choice matching or true false questions or end user completion. The module calculates the score records the results and provides feedback to the user. Skills tests are performance checklists to be completed and updated by the supervisor or evaluator. Thus the certification module supports evaluation of skill areas where written tests would not adequately measure proficiency.

The manufacture storage group includes a services database a testimonials database an order requirements database a financial database a template of proposals and presentation database a product information database and a configuration database . Each of these databases support the operation of one or more subcomponent modules of the above described components in the salesperson support system . For example the financial database includes up to date finance and lease rates terms and incentives. The product information database includes data related to the features and benefits of a product the specifications for the product or service being sold comparative specifications etc. The configuration database includes data related to a base model for example standard equipment options prices weights characteristics and relationships of the product.

The international storage group allows the integrated sales system to be used world wide. The international storage group includes databases for screens menus and print text in various languages country supplied products country rules currencies etc. .

The locale storage group includes databases for locale rules templates of proposals and presentations locally supplied products and services and archive .

The salesperson storage group maintains databases for the salesperson. For example databases for generated presentations and proposals orders contacts calendar and to do items customers leads and other names are provided.

The local storage database of data component A is optimized for the mobile disconnected sales environment. Data is optimized to assure security fast response time and to provide as much information as possible without requiring the user to connect to the global storage of data component B of the back office system described more fully below. All components and subcomponent modules of the salesperson support system use a common data architecture.

The data component B contains global storage databases divided into a number of storage area groups. A data manager is connected to the event manager B via respective APIs. A manufacturer storage group stores global information corresponding to the manufacturer storage group of the data component A. As described more fully below the information in the global storage of the data component B can be updated using the data tools. The updated data will subsequently be communicated to the salesperson support system to update the local storage of the date component A.

The data component B also contains an international storage group having databases corresponding to the international storage group of the data component A. An administration storage group is also provided in the data component B. This group includes an account data database and a release data database. The event managers A and B date managers and facilitate a proper exchange of data between the local storage of date component A and the global storage of the data component B.

It is noted that the date in the data component B of the back office system is stored in an open database format e.g. ODBC to provide maximum compatibility with different systems. This facilitates the importation of data from other enterprise system databases for use by the system . It further provides for maximum usability of the data. Such open databases however require large amounts of storage space. Thus a data optimizer is provided in the data tools subsystem of the back office system to convert the data into a run time product knowledge database. The optimized database is tuned for speed size and security. When data is transferred from the data component B to the data component A it is first optimized. The databases of the data component A store information in the optimized format. Thus the storage requirements are minimized and the transfer time is reduced.

The query managers A and B communications between the two systems related to inquires. For example the query managers handle communication of information related to inventory inquiries order inquires price inquires etc.

The communications components A and B also include respective communication equipment A and B. The communication equipment communicatively couple the two systems as illustrated by the dotted line . The equipment may include network connections and lines modems satellite communications technology etc. Communication between the two systems is controlled using the event managers A and B and the communication managers A and B and query managers A and B.

The configuration data tool allows data maintenance personnel to create edit and update the configuration portions of the knowledge database. The configuration data tool includes an editor allowing the user to create and edit the database including international portions of the database. The configuration data tool may be used to carry out such functions as data modeling data editing auditing security and internationalization. The configuration data tool may also be provided with interfacing capability to be used with a data pre processor to incorporate data from other electronic sources. A data optimizer is used to place the data in the optimized encrypted run time format.

The specifications and comparison data tool allows the data maintenance personnel to create edit and update the specifications for the products as well as specifications of competitor s products. This data is also stored in the knowledge database. Like the configuration data tool the specifications and comparison data tool includes an editor allowing a back office user to create and edit the database including international portions of the database. The tool can also be used in conjunction with the data pre processor to incorporate data from other electronic sources. As with the configuration data tool the specifications and comparison data tool uses the data optimizer to place the data in the optimized run time encrypted format. The tool may also include data auditing and security functionality.

The graphics and features data tool is provided to assist data maintenance personnel in creating editing updating and adding text to graphics screens. The resultant data in stored in the knowledge database. The tool includes an editor which allows users to create and edit the textual portions of graphics screens. The graphics and features tool may be used in conjunction with a scanning device and or graphic creation and drawing tools to create graphic images. The tool creates the run time database.

The customer and leads data tool allows back office personnel to maintain and control the data entities and relationships required for the contact management module provided in the self management component . The tool includes import and export capabilities enabling the system to process information to and from other enterprise databases such as telemarketing customer services warranty and management information systems. In this manner leads can be passed from these other entities directly to the salesperson through the customer and leads data tool .

The sales processes data tool is provided to create edit and maintain data elements used to support the objective management module in the self management component of the salesperson support system . This tool is used to identify steps and scheduling for processes develop guidelines for these steps create checklists for consistent data collection and enter required follow up requirements. In addition a data and formula matrix used to calculate probability of closing a sales opportunities is provided within the sales processes tool .

The finance parameter data tool is used to maintain the values plans and defaults for credit and finance information used by the finance module of the time with customer component of the system. The finance parameter tool allows maintenance personnel to add or edit interest rates set finance and lease plan requirements and parameters control plan and option availability establish report requirements and set finance plan valid dates.

The quote terms and conditions data tool is provided to allow back office system maintenance personnel to control and maintain the terms and conditions used by the quotation module of the time with component system. Tax requirements special fees discounts and profitability calculations may be set using this tool.

The other data tools are similar in construction and provide similar functionality to those described in greater detail above. Each of the data tools are connected to the event manager B which handles the flow of information throughout the system.

In the tables the various types of information stored and used by the sales system is listed by category. For example illustrates the types of customer information typically gathered and used during the sales process. Also illustrated in the tables are the various core components of the salesperson support system and the support process components . Exemplary subcomponent modules are also illustrated for the various components. The table illustrates how each of the subcomponent modules under control of the event manager are granted access to the particular types of data. Subcomponent modules marked with a symbol have access to the corresponding data for both read and write purposes. Subcomponent modules marked with a symbol have read only access to the corresponding data. Subcomponent modules left blank do not have access to the data.

As illustrated in the data may be used commonly by more than one of the various components and subcomponent modules. In this manner the components and modules are integrated together for a common exchange of information via the event manager . As illustrated data stored in a single location is used by the various components and subcomponent modules during different phase of the overall sales process. It is can also be appreciated from the tables of that data which is updated using one module will be automatically reflected in other modules which rely on the particular data. In this manner the salesperson can be confident that the most recent data is being used since regardless of when in the sales process the data is changed it will be automatically reflected in each component which relies on the data.

By way of example a salesperson meeting with a current customer may learn that the customer has moved to a new address. Using the self management component the salesperson enters the new address information into the customer information database. The event manager A recognizes this event. If the customer currently has an order not yet delivered when the data is updated in the common database the event manager A instructs the order management component to automatically reflect the change. Alternatively the event manager A can be used to prompt the salesperson that the data which is being updated is being used or relied upon by another component of the sales system. The salesperson can confirm that the updated information should be used in other parts of the system. For example the system will inquire under control of the event manager whether the change in address requires a change in the delivery address for an order. If the new address should be used for the delivery the change order subcomponent module is initiated with the new information reflected and a command is given to update the delivery address information in the order. Thus the order will now reflect the proper address information ensuring proper delivery.

At step S the product module of the time with customer component is used to tag features and benefits as well as competitive information for the proposal to be generated.

At step S the configuration module of the time with customer component is used to create a customer solution. As described above the configuration may previously have been created and the information residing therein may automatically be used at this step to generate a customer proposal. At step S the quote module finance module and any other needed modules are accessed and used to prepare all of the desired information to be included in the proposal. At step S certain selections of the proposal may be edited as permitted by the locale rules database . Only certain users of the system may be validated for such an operation. If the user is not validated step S is skipped and the system proceeds directly from step S to step S. At step S the system automatically creates prints and saves a proposal using the information generated using the various subcomponent modules described above.

At step S the event manager A recognizes the proposal generation event and instructs the opportunity and forecast modules of the self management component to update opportunity and forecast status to reflect the newly created proposal. Upon completion of the update step S the updated opportunity status is transmitted to the back office system . It is noted that the salesperson support system may be operated disconnected from the back office system . In this instance the data is placed in the out box of the communication component A and is automatically transmitted at the next connected session with the back office system .

At step S the back office system receives the updated opportunity status information at the communication manager in the communication component B. This information is transferred via the event manager A to the sales manager module of the sales management component B and is reflected in the database component B. At step S the sales management forecasts are now properly updated to reflect the proposal created using the salesperson support system .

At step S the event manager A creates a work session file which is used to manage information related to the order. At step S the system automatically accesses the configuration module to create or modify the configuration as needed.

At step S the system prompts the user to enter any additional order information needed such as quantity ship to bill to and special instructions.

The system then checks user status by referring to the locale rules database at step S to confirm that the user is granted valid access to submit an order. Assuming the user has access the system proceeds to step S and transfers the order from the event manager A to the out box of the communications component A via the communication manager A.

The event manager A recognizes the order submittal process and initiates a series of automatic steps. At step S the system stores a record of the order in the orders database . At step S the system automatically updates the opportunity status of the opportunity module of the self management component . At step S the to do module of the self management component is accessed by the system and follow up items are automatically added to the salespersons to do list. Because the self management component is fully integrated via the intelligent event manager A to the order management component the system automatically creates the follow up to do list and updates the opportunity status without requirement of any further interaction with the user.

At step S the system transmits the order to the back office system via the communications component A out box at the next connected session. At step S the communication manager B of the communication component B receives the order from the communication equipment B. The communication manager notifies the information to the event manager B of the back office system . At step S the event manager transfers the order information to the enterprise system . The system also updates the sales management forecast in the sales management component B to reflect the order at step S.

At step S the enterprise system notifies the communication manager out box via the event manager B of an order acknowledgment which is transmitted to the sales representative. At step S the salesperson is notified of the acknowledgment. Upon completion of step S the order submission process is complete.

At step S the system accesses the account data database of the data component B and checks the user data file for replication instructions. The price data is transferred at the next connect session at step S.

At step S the updated price information is received by the communication manager of the communication component A. At step S the system updates the price file and marks old information as invalid in the configuration database of the data component A. The system also leaves an audit trail message in the out box of the communication component A for transfer to the back office system during the next connected session at step S.

Finally at step S the system may be used to automatically notify the salesperson of any outstanding quotes which are affected by the price change. Upon completion of step S the process ends.

As described above each event occurring in the sales process is handled by an event manager which recognizes the event notes the context in which the event occurs and automatically initiates additional action based on the event and its context. The operation of the event manager will be better understood by reference to the exemplary embodiments described below. These embodiments are provided by way of illustration and not limitation to demonstrate how the various types of information made available during the sales process can be used by an automated sales system to facilitate the sales process.

As described above object oriented programming OOP may be used to implement the various subsystems. In such an implementation the functionality of the various modules and subsystems may be implemented in the form of business objects. In such an implementation the business objects can be the focal point of behavior in an OOP based sales system. For example the business objects can trap application events which represent actions by the user and apply a set of behavior rules to the application events. A typical business object may provide or receive information to or from a user through the occurrence of an application event.

Application events in the disclosed embodiment are internal to the sales system and generally represent a sales event occurring in the sales process. In other words a sales event may be an event in the sales process typically occurring between the salesperson and the customer while an application event may be an internal operation of the sales system i.e. the operation of the software and hardware making up the sales system which is used to electronically facilitate the sales event. In such a system the occurrence of a sales event can be made known to the sales system by the occurrence of an application event. For example the generation of a proposal for a customer is a sales event which occurs in the time with customer phase of the sales process. When the sales system is used to generate the proposal a business object of the proposal generation module in the time with customer component typically will be used by the system. As described more fully below such use of this business object will inform the sales system that the generation of a proposal has just occurred in the sales process. This information may then be used by the sales system to facilitate or initiate specified application events which in turn drive sales events e.g. to enter tasks into a to do list for actions to be taken by the salesperson or to automatically carry out a task in the sales process .

As can be appreciated in many instances a sales event and its related application event may be used interchangeably to describe an event. In the discussion below where a distinction between the two types of events is useful the terms sales event and application event are used. Where the discussion applies more generally to both types of events the term event may be used in a more generic form.

In one embodiment a system using an event manager as depicted in is implemented in a layered architecture. An exemplary layered architecture is illustrated in . The layered architecture enables developers to change areas of the system without impacting areas outside the defined areas. The system shown has four layers the platform layer typically including operating systems networks peripherals etc. the data layer the business objects layer and the application layer . In the embodiment illustrated the layers communicate with each other through three defined protocols illustrated as protocol layers and between the platform layer and the data layer the data layer and the business objects layer the business objects layer and the application layer respectively.

The third protocol layer may be used to implement the intelligent operation of the system by establishing the interaction of events and actions between objects and applications as well as between objects themselves. In other words events may be tied or paired together in the third protocol layer . When one event occurs on this level e.g. the generation of a proposal in the proposal generation module the system automatically recognizes the event and its significance and may automatically initiate another event in the sales process e.g. scheduling a follow up in the time management module on the third protocol layer . In other words the third protocol layer can be the layer on which pairing or grouping of application events occurs. However as described more fully below the grouping operation of the event manager depicted in typically is driven on the basis of data. In this matter the pairing or grouping of events may be considered as occurring on the second protocol layer .

In the embodiment shown the second protocol layer provides for communication within the system. As described above the system may be implemented using distributed technology. Typical communication within such a system may be abstracted into four basic types 1 Distribution 2 Replication 3 Transaction and 4 Messaging. Communication on this protocol layer now will be briefly described.

Distribution generally refers to and includes en mass file copying. This would include general functions such as copy move create delete and the like. The distributed files and information types can be maintained in a number of different ways. For example a version number may be used. Each file may be assigned a version number which changes when the content is changed. The distributed files can also be updated with changes which occur only in the system and not in the complete file. This type of change may be termed a net change. Files and information types can also be maintained with tokens. A token is set valid for a given period of time for a given user. This may also be used as a security mechanism of the system as well.

Replication may be used when a user does not need the entire set of information contained in a given source. Used in this manner replication enables a user to receive relevant information only. This reduces the amount of information that is transferred during maintenance.

A Transaction operation may be used for information support. It typically includes functions such as insert delete select query post commit etc. This type of operation generally is more efficient when handling tabular information.

The Messaging function may be used to enable workflow in the system such as by enabling the business objects to communicate state and status information with each other. For example messaging operations may include post route send broadcast receive listen etc.

Typical operation of the event manager will now be described. In the disclosed embodiment upon the occurrence of an application event using the business object the business object exposes the event and associated event handlers to the event managing unit and the information contained in the exposed event is used to by the event managing unit to create or update a database in the event manager database . On the basis of rules and state information stored in the event manager database the event managing unit may be configured to dynamically bind event handlers in the form of an event map to the exposed events as represented by line . The event handlers typically dictate further action to be taken by the system resulting from the occurrence of the particular sales event represented by the business object .

As described above a typical business object may provide or receive information to or from the user. The information may be taken from or put to a data object with the data objects stored in a container . The container may be a special business object such as a repository for data objects that may or may not be operated on by the business object .

In the embodiment described above the event manager automatically binds a sales event to one or more other sales events as directed by the rules and other information in the event manager database . The rules may prescribe that on the occurrence of a particular event an event record is examined in the event manager database to determine if other related events have occurred and if the other events have occurred the rules may indicate that another sales event should be initiated.

By way of example a sales event such as the introduction of a new incentive program for a specified product may occur. A business object associated with handling incentive programs may be used to update data related to incentive information in the system. The event manager may automatically recognize a change in the incentive program for the specified product check to see if there are outstanding proposals for the specified product and if so direct a business object in the self management component to automatically generate a letter informing the customer of the new incentive program.

Further intelligence may be provided in the system to evaluate the context in which the sales event occurs e.g. the significance of other information in the system . In the above example the event manager may also check customer information and determine whether the new incentive fits the customer profile. For example the customer may have indicated a maximum down payment available to the customer. If the incentive program calls for a higher down payment then a decision may be made that the incentive program need not be sent to the customer. In this manner the context in which the sales event occurs e.g. whether outstanding proposals exists whether the incentive is inconsistent with customer profile information may be used in connection with the occurrence of the event to determine what if any subsequent action should be taken by the system.

In the manner described above different events may be paired or grouped together. In a table provides examples of how sales events may be linked together by the event manager database. In exemplary events are listed in column . The exemplary components and related modules used to facilitate the sales events are listed in columns and . In column examples are provided illustrating how a rules database in the event manager database may link the sales events to other sales events facilitated by the system. The provided examples are not exhaustive but rather illustrate different types of events that may be paired to facilitate the sales process.

Referring again to the rules applied by the event managing unit can be manually entered into the event manager data base using the editor . In this manner the operation of the system in response to a particular event can be altered by changing the information in the event manager database without altering the business objects used by the system. In other words the subsequent automatic operations carried out by the system are driven by the contents of the event manager database . This allows the system to be highly customizable without requiring extensive reprogramming of the business objects used to facilitate sales events. If desired changes in the rules database may be made transparent to the business objects.

The expert system may monitor a large number of successful events and determine the common characteristics of the events and actions leading to successful events and then change the rules on the basis of this experience. In this manner the expert sales system allows the entire sales force to pool knowledge and experience such that the entire sales force gains from the shared experience. This allows the successful tactics of experienced salespeople to be provided as defaults for inexperienced salespeople. This also allows a generic sales system to be used in a particular sales environment or in a geographic region and to learn successful default operations to maximize the sales opportunities.

The expert system may also be implemented to predict the most successful course of action based on the information available to the system at the time a sales event occurs. For example an inference engine may be incorporated into the expert system to select an appropriate course of action to be taken when prior events of interest suggest different conflicting courses of action. Consider the above example where a new incentive program is introduced. In addition to the previously described information the system may have a vast amount of knowledge or information which may be useful to determine the best course of action. For example based on prior experience it may determined that customers in the particular customer s geographic region typically participate in the type of incentive program offered. This would suggest that it would be advisable to make appropriate offers such as by sending out a letter. The system may also contain a record indicating similar incentive programs being rejected by the particular customer a number of times in the past. This would indicate that it might be better to leave the customer to consider the current outstanding proposal.

Such facts related to the event may be taken into consideration by an experienced salesperson to determine if and how the new incentive program should be presented to a particular customer. As can be appreciated a large number of pieces of information available in the sales system may each be related to whether a subsequent action e.g. sending out a letter should be initiated. All of the potential scenarios in which the fact patterns may be developed may make it extremely difficult to code specific rules for making such a decision. Thus in accordance with one embodiment of the system an inference engine may be employed to make the decision of whether particular subsequent action should be taken.

A typical inference engine relies upon a number of independent rules which may be conceptualized as a number of statements in the form IF X THEN Y. In the above example these rules may be of the from 

In its most simple form the inference engine may determine whether more rules indicate that a letter should be sent or not. The different rules could also be weighted to provide a heavier influence by some of the rules on the outcome. Moreover the rules may be more complex such as IF X AND Z THEN Y. The above example is provided as a simplified illustration of the general operation of an expert system using an inference engine in the system of .

It is noted that such an expert system may be developed by generating rules based on the knowledge and experience of the most experienced salespeople. Then a relatively inexperienced salesperson can use the system to facilitate a sale by automatically identifying events that suggest further action and by suggesting a best course of action based on the outcome of the rules. It is further noted that the rules used e.g. in the inference engine may examine vast amounts of information gathered during the sales process to suggest or initiate action. The volume of information available and considered may far exceed the amount of information that even an experienced salesperson would be capable of examining. Moreover the system may be implemented so that information is automatically reviewed eliminating the need to identify which information may be relevant each time the situation arises. Also the time which would otherwise be spent retrieving and reviewing the information is now made available to the salesperson for other more productive activities.

It is also noted that in dealing with additional customers the rules used by an expert system employing an inference engine may be derived from actual experience. Successful tactics may be remembered by the system and used to drive the THEN statement for a particular set of facts.

The advantages of using the intelligence of an expert system extends across the various phases of the sales process. For example the system can track customer profile information as it is gathered during the presales phase of the sales process and can correlate that to whether a sale is made by examining activities in the order management phase of the sales process. In this manner the system may intelligently leverage such information to glean which types of presentations and proposals are effective with the particular customer profile and set this information as a default for the system whenever a similar customer profile is associated with a customer for which a presentation or proposal is being prepared. During the configuration process specific types of information may be automatically tagged for inclusion in a presentation or proposal on the basis of the particular customer s profile. The intelligent ability to alter defaults for the system on the basis of the customer profile enhances the likelihood of a sale and reduces the workload of the salesperson.

Another example of using the knowledge base of the system is in generation of forecasts. The system may continually evaluate and track events and actions which predict outcome. Upon occurrence of a particular event or set of events the system can dynamically update the probability of sale.

An intelligent system typically interacts with each phase of the sales process as illustrated in . Such an intelligent system generally includes a knowledge database plus logic to realize the implication of the knowledge and logic to strategize based on the realized implication. As diagrammatically illustrated in such a system will gather knowledge by monitoring the operation of the system in the various phases of the sales process i.e. knowledge is gathered as the automated sales system is used to facilitate the sales process . Thus the knowledge database may include information prior sales experience using the sales system and successful strategies employed in the prior uses. The gathered knowledge as realized and strategized is then used by the system to impact the overall sales process.

The foregoing description which has been disclosed by way of the above examples and discussion addresses embodiments of the present invention encompassing the principles of the present invention. The embodiments may be changed modified and or implemented using various types of arrangements. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize various modifications and changes which may be made to the present invention without strictly following the exemplary embodiments and applications illustrated and described herein and without departing from the true spirit and scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

