---

title: Automatically finding acronyms and synonyms in a corpus
abstract: Acronym and synonym pairs can be identified and retrieved automatically in a corpus and/or across an enterprise based on customer settings globally or for a single instance. Possible acronym and synonym term pairs can be identified using a rule such as a heuristic, user-defined rule. Rules selected by the user can be used to rank acronym and synonym pairs using factors such as occurrence frequency and maximum term length. A rule interpreter engine executes the user defined rule set to properly identify and retrieve the user selected acronym and synonym pairs through the utilization of a shallow pause read step. Finally, the user selected acronym and synonym pairs are ranked according to the user preferences, and can be displayed or held for subsequent use in searching.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316007&OS=08316007&RS=08316007
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08316007
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070628
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Embodiments in accordance with the present invention relate generally to electronic searching of documents and data and more particularly relate to automatically determining acronym and synonym pairs useful for obtaining more accurate query results.

An end user in an enterprise or web environment frequently searches huge databases. For example Internet search engines are frequently used to search the entire world wide web. Information retrieval systems are traditionally judged by their precision and recall. Large databases of documents especially the World Wide Web contain many low quality documents where the relevance to the desired search term is extremely low or non existent. As a result searches typically return hundreds of irrelevant or unwanted documents which camouflage the few relevant ones that meet the personalized needs of an end user. In order to improve the selectivity of the results common techniques allow an end user to modify the search or to provide different or additional search terms. These techniques are most effective in cases where the database being searched is homogeneous or structured and already classified into subsets or in cases where the user is searching for well known and specific information. In other cases however these techniques are often not effective.

When attempting to locate information such as electronic documents it is common for a user to enter search terms into a search engine interface whereby the engine can utilize those terms to search for documents that have matching keywords text titles etc. One problem with such an approach is that there might be multiple ways to express a given term such that a relevant document might not match a given term. For example a user searching for the term real application clusters might search by a common industry term such as RAC which would result in finding only documents that use that particular acronym and not documents that use the full term real application clusters . Given a corpus of documents then it can be desirable to utilize acronyms and synonym pairs to build a thesaurus whereby relationships between terms can be used by applications such as text mining applications search engines etc.

In enterprise searching for example different system deployments or different corpora may define the same terms differently thus making it difficult to return a customized listing of hits to an end user. Providing a simple and intuitive way to allow customers to improve search results in heterogeneous enterprise environments is critical to improve user flexibility and personalization. One way to improve search results in such an environment is to define and maintain a list of acronym and synonym pairs from disparate sources of data. However this task is complicated where the context of a term may be different in heterogeneous applications and where there many be numerous such terms. A customized thesaurus could be manually built for a given corpus of focus but such efforts would be time consuming and expensive.

Therefore it is desirable to provide a simple intuitive and heuristic method to allow an end user to automatically define and find acronym and synonym pairs to meet global or single instance requirements in a heterogeneous enterprise environment query.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention provide for the automatic identification of synonym and acronym pairs such as by using specified heuristic patterns. Such an approach can automatically keep an updated list of such pairs that can be useful in generating more accurate search results such as across an enterprise.

In one embodiment each sentence in a selected target corpus is examined to identify possible acronym and synonym pairs. An occurrence frequency of each identified possible acronym and synonym pair is determined as well as a maximum possible length. Each identified possible acronym and synonym pair then is ranked based on a combination of the occurrence frequency and maximum possible length. This combination can be weighted or otherwise defined by the user. The ranked acronym and synonym pairs or at least those having above a minimum ranking can be to the user and or saved for use in future searches.

In one embodiment a ranking of the identified possible acronym and synonym pairs first occurs after determining the occurrence frequency whereby a maximum possible length is determined only for those identified possible acronym and synonym pairs exceeding a specified ranking based on the occurrence frequency. A user also can specify a minimum occurrence frequency value and or a maximum term length value whereby possible acronym and synonym pairs are ranked.

In one embodiment the identified possible acronym and synonym pairs are ranked using a process whereby pairs with a longer maximum length are ranked higher than terms with a shorter maximum length when those pairs have substantially the same occurrence frequency or above a minimum occurrence frequency. A shallow pause can be implemented for each sentence when each sentence is analyzed and a user can select a target corpus that is a subset of a domain or that spans multiple domains.

Reference to the remaining portions of the specification including the drawings and claims will realize other features and advantages of the present invention. Further features and advantages of the present invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with respect to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present invention overcome the aforementioned and other deficiencies in existing search and data retrieval systems by providing for the automatic identification and maintenance of acronym and synonym pairs. The automatic identification and retrieval can be based on a customer setting globally or in a single instance of a heterogeneous enterprise or web environment utilizing heuristic patterns in a sentence. In one embodiment the a search system utilizes the text index of a database resulting from a crawl operation to accept documents and generate lists for searching. illustrates an exemplary secure enterprise search SES system implementation wherein an SES server includes a query layer operable to work through a Java component to direct a crawler to crawl various enterprise applications documents and objects and then store a data index in a local or remote database . An application programming interface API or client interface allows a user to submit queries such as text queries to search documents or data objects based on terms or keywords for example.

Automatically finding acronym and synonym pairs in a corpus comprises an overall process that initially defines acronym and synonym term pairs in the form of a domain specific heuristic user defined rule. Heuristic patterns demonstrate certain relationships between two different terms. Upon defining the rules in which the terms will be compared a selected corpus is crawled indexed and read. Based upon the definitions of the user created heuristic domain relationships a rule interpreter engine can execute a user defined rule set to properly identify and retrieve acronym and synonym pairs through the utilization of a shallow pause read step. Finally the user selected acronym and synonym pairs can be ranked and displayed.

According to one aspect of the present invention two quantities are used to rank acronym and synonym candidate pairs. A first quantity is an occurrence frequency gathered from the corpus. All sentences in the corpus are evaluated to find all possible acronym and synonym pairs bases on specified heuristic patterns. Each pair is associated with a number denoting its frequency of occurrence. Based on this occurrence frequency certain possible matches will be removed due to a low level of occurrence and certain matches can be highly ranked based upon a high level of occurrence.

A second quantity is a maximum possible length. The longer the term the higher the pair will be ranked in the overall results. For example if there are acronym pair possibilities for clusters and RAC as well as real application clusters and RAC then if they have the same occurrence frequency the term real application clusters which has a longer maximum possible length will be more highly overall ranked for RAC than will just the term clusters . The ranking score then can be a combination of the occurrence frequency and the overall length. There also can be a setting of minimum occurrence and or maximum length whereby false results can be avoided.

In such an approach a ranking score is defined and calculated for each term and query results pair providing a maximum possible length ranking score and an occurrence frequency ranking score for each term and query result pair. A plurality of combinations or selection methods create a rule set or heuristic for an end user depending on the relative weighting of the above quantities.

In one embodiment all sentences in a corpus are analyzed to find all possible acronym and synonym pairs based on specified heuristic domain acronym or synonym patterns using the occurrence frequency approach. Each identified and retrieved pair is associated with a number denoting its frequency of occurrence. The ranked pairs are retrieved based on a user defined rule to determine the order of the listed retrieved candidate pairs. Based on occurrence frequency for example the pair Oracle Real Application Clusters and RAC will be removed or at least lowered in ranking if it occurs less frequently than another pair such as Real Application Cluster and RAC . In another application of occurrence frequency all possible pairs are ranked using the user defined heuristic acronym or synonym pair rule.

In one embodiment only the higher ranked term from each candidate pair will be used based on maximum length for the same occurrence frequency. Alternatively for the same maximum length only the one with the higher occurrence frequency may be used. A user defined rule may be applied to rank the listing of longer length terms etc.

According to another embodiment search users may focus their search to a specific source or corpus in an integrated heterogeneous enterprise search system. The acronyms and synonyms detected from the focused sources should be suggested instead of simply using acronyms and synonyms from other sources. Extracting acronym and synonym pairs based on one specific corpus can find acronym and synonym pairs specific to the corpus. For example RAC might correspond to Rent A Center more often in the overall enterprise but may not occur at all and may be wholly inappropriate for a particular corpus wherein RAC corresponds to Real Application Cluster .

An end user may also decide to focus search suggestions on acronyms and synonyms from other sources as well where it is desired to search external with respect to a particular focused source.

The acronym and synonym candidate pair ranking heuristic specification can be set by customers to be effective for the whole search system or the acronym and synonym ranking candidate pairs heuristic specification can be submitted with each query and then impact acronym and synonym ranking heuristic differently for each query.

In most embodiments the system includes some type of network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols GRPS GSM UMTS EDGE 2G 2.5G 3G 4G Wimax WiFi CDMA 2000 WCDMA the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server computers which can be general purpose computers specialized server computers including merely by way of example PC servers UNIX servers mid range servers mainframe computers rack mounted servers etc. server farms server clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination. One or more of the servers e.g. may be dedicated to running applications such as a business application a Web server application server etc. Such servers may be used to process requests from user computers . The applications can also include any number of applications for controlling access to resources of the servers .

The Web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The Web server can also run any of a variety of server applications and or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers business applications and the like. The server s also may be one or more computers which can be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers . As one example a server may execute one or more Web applications. The Web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The system may also include one or more databases . The database s may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example a database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and or in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments the database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10g that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a digital signal processor DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the system .

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program which may be a client application Web browser mid tier application RDBMS etc. . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to store or transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

