---

title: Method and system for distinctively displaying selected floor with sufficient details in a three-dimensional building model
abstract: A method, system and program product for distinctively displaying selected floors with sufficient details in a three-dimensional building model includes graphical metaphors that permit a selected or highlighted floor and their respective elements to be absolutely clear and distinct from the floors immediately above and below. The graphically displayed metaphors comprise “drawers”, “wireframe”, “expansion/compression”, “projected floor”, “sliding unselected floors”, “turning the pages”, “big map-small map”, and “fisheye” graphical configurations. Such graphically displayed metaphors can be utilized to highlight a selected floor, separate it from adjacent floors, and provide a graphical effect of depicting the floor's vertical position within a building.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08233008&OS=08233008&RS=08233008
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08233008
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070119
---
Embodiments are generally related to data processing methods and systems. Embodiments are additionally related to the computer aided design of buildings. Embodiments are also related to three dimensional building models and techniques for distinctively displaying selected building floors with sufficient details in three dimensional building models.

Three dimensional models of large buildings are used in graphical displays to support situation awareness in a variety of situations such as for example firefighting building security and HVAC Heating Ventilating and Air conditioning management. In a firefighting scenario for example a semitransparent three dimensional model of a building would be helpful for providing a birds eye perspective view of a building along with a view from the outside looking in and with respect to locations of activated smoke and heat detectors in three dimensional space. From such a display a firefighter can comprehend the spread of a fire at a glance particularly the vertical spread between floors or levels of the building. Such a service can provide the firefighter with a very intuitive technique for visualizing a path toward the fire and for viewing the locations of team members.

Users of three dimensional graphical models of buildings however sometimes suffer from disorientation as they view and manipulate three dimensional building graphics. Without any special aids all floors of the building tend to look similar. Often floors with special events such as fires security camera activations etc. need to be highlighted by shading or other graphical technique so that it is easy for the user to view another part of the building yet not lose their orientation to the problem floor.

Conversely a user may desire to select a particular floor in the three dimensional graphics and thereby view the floor in greater detail in contrast to the rest of the building. Common highlighting methods such as shading the flat plane of the selected floor or placing a wireframe around the selected floor can be problematic particularly if textures are used to render the walls of the building. For example the floor of a selected floor level of the building can also be the ceiling of the floor immediately below. Also it is difficult to present interior details of a particular floor level such as walls and key objects with the selected floor highlighted but not clearly separated from the floor above and below it.

In an effort to address the foregoing difficulties graphical metaphors can be implemented in order to make the selected or highlighted floor and their elements windows ceilings and objects like detectors etc absolutely clear and distinct from the floors immediately above and below. An example of such a solution is described in greater detail herein.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the embodiments disclosed and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

It is therefore one aspect of the present invention to provide for an improved computer aided design of buildings.

It is another aspect of the present invention to provide for improved three dimensional building models.

It is a further aspect of the present invention to provide for a method for distinctively displaying selected floor with sufficient details in three dimensional building models.

The aforementioned aspects and other objectives and advantages can now be achieved as described herein. A method and system for distinctively displaying building features with sufficient details in a three dimensional building model is disclosed. One or more graphical metaphors can be provided which permit a user to select with an enhanced granularity one or more building features from among a plurality of building features associated with a three dimensional model of a building. Thereafter one or more building features can be graphically selected by the user utilizing one or more such graphical metaphors in response to a particular user input thereby allowing the user the ability to clearly identify graphically manipulate and distinguish building features among the building features to thereby correctly visualize the selected building feature with respect to the three dimensional model of the building.

The graphical metaphors can be used to make the selected or highlighted building features such as building floors and their elements e.g. windows ceilings and objects like detectors etc absolutely clear and distinct from the floors immediately above and below. The graphical metaphors can be composed of metaphors such as drawers wireframe expansion compression projected floors sliding unselected floors turning the pages big map small map fisheye and so forth. Such metaphors can be utilized to highlight a selected floor separate it from adjacent floors and then display the floor s vertical position in the three dimensional building model.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these non limiting examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate at least one embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

The data processing apparatus generally includes one or more data storage devices for storing and reading program and other data. Examples of such data storage devices include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk not shown and an optical disc drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disc not shown such as a CD ROM or other optical medium. A monitor is connected to the system bus through an adapter or other interface. Additionally the data processing apparatus can include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers. For example a user input device such as a mouse keyboard and so forth can be connected to system bus in order to permit a user to enter data to and interact with data processing apparatus .

The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disc drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical disc drive interface respectively. These drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for use by the data processing apparatus . Note that such computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data can be implemented as a module or group of modules such as for example module which can be stored within memory .

Note that the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in the context of a host operating system and one or more module s . In the computer programming arts a software module can be typically implemented as a collection of routines and or data structures that perform particular tasks or implement a particular abstract data type.

Software modules generally comprise instruction media storable within a memory location of a data processing apparatus and are typically composed of two parts. First a software module may list the constants data types variable routines and the like that can be accessed by other modules or routines. Second a software module can be configured as an implementation which can be private i.e. accessible perhaps only to the module and that contains the source code that actually implements the routines or subroutines upon which the module is based. The term module as utilized herein can therefore refer to software modules or implementations thereof. Such modules can be utilized separately or together to form a program product that can be implemented through signal bearing media including transmission media and recordable media.

It is important to note that although the embodiments are described in the context of a fully functional data processing apparatus such as data processing apparatus those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the present invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media utilized to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of signal bearing media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as floppy disks or CD ROMs and transmission type media such as analogue or digital communications links.

Any type of computer readable media that can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile discs DVDs Bernoulli cartridges random access memories RAMs and read only memories ROMs can be used in connection with the embodiments.

A number of program modules can be stored or encoded in a machine readable medium such as the hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive the optical disc drive ROM RAM etc or an electrical signal such as an electronic data stream received through a communications channel. These program modules can include an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data.

The data processing apparatus can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers not shown . These logical connections are implemented using a communication device coupled to or integral with the data processing apparatus . The data sequence to be analyzed can reside on a remote computer in the networked environment. The remote computer can be another computer a server a router a network PC a client or a peer device or other common network node. depicts the logical connection as a network connection interfacing with the data processing apparatus through a network interface . Such networking environments are commonplace in office networks enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet which are all types of networks. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the network connections shown are provided by way of example and that other means of and communications devices for establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting a floor selected by the user is illustrated in accordance with a preferred embodiment. Note that the various graphically displayed models and graphical metaphors described and illustrated herein with respect to can be provided for a user graphically displayed for a user via display unit such as for example monitor of and manipulated by a user via a data processing device such as the data processing apparatus depicted in . Further the graphical models graphical metaphors and three dimensional views described herein can be implemented and processed via a software module such as module described earlier. generally illustrate a methodology or technique which can be implemented using module and or an associated GUI graphical user interface .

The multi floor building model can thus be displayed via a display screen of a monitor such as for example monitor of apparatus depicted in . As indicated in the selected or highlighted floor is absolutely clear and distinct from the unselected floors immediately above and below. Note that in illustrated and described herein identical or similar parts or elements are generally indicated by identical reference numerals.

Referring to a three dimensional view of the graphically displayed multi floor building model depicted in is illustrated highlighting a graphical metaphor of Drawers with the highlighted floor pulled out of the entire graphically displayed building in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The highlighted floor can be simulated using software animation via one or more software modules such as module described earlier and can be graphically pulled out from the whole building in a manner graphically and metaphorically similar to pulling a drawer out of a dresser drawer or other piece of furniture. The highlighted floor can be separately displayed besides the entire graphically displayed building while retaining the vertical position of the highlighted floor in the entire building . The original place of the separated highlighted floor can be visualized to provide context in the whole building . This enables given software module e.g. module to display more details of the highlighted floor that is situated in the building .

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor Drawers with the highlighted floor is enlarged and separately displayed besides the whole building is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The highlighted floor can be rotated as illustrated by an arrow in in order to move it to a new place so that the highlighted floor can be displayed directly and more clearly. The highlighted floor which is pulled out of the building can also be enlarged to display more details. The highlighted floor support semi transparent rendering. The building can be pitched automatically or manually toward the viewer.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor Wireframe with the effect of fading unselected floors is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The highlighted floor can be extruded and the unselected floors of the building can be faded. The effect of the unselected floors can be faded by decreasing its visibility using transparent i.e. only wire frame is left or semi transparent i.e. half visible floors are left or hiding the unselected floors i.e. the rest of the unselected floors will disappear . The unselected floors can be disappeared but the frame of the whole building will still be kept with faded effect. This enables the display of more details about the highlighted floor . The highlighted floor can be auto centered and enlarged to occupy the whole screen of a display unit e.g. monitor of and hence more details of the selected floor can be displayed.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor Wireframe with the effect of fading unselected floors by removing all details and wire frames is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The effect of the unselected floors can be faded by removing all details and wire frames of the floors and only the shadow frame is left to provide context of whole building . The highlighted floor can be shown with texture and the unselected floors with fading shadow frame .

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor Expansion compression with highlighted floor enlarged with more details and unselected floors compressed is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The highlighted floor can be enlarged with more details and the unselected floors can be compressed. Highlighted floor and unselected floors can be separated leaving a space interval between highlighted floor and unselected floor of the building . The space interval between highlighted floor and unselected floor can separate the ceiling of the highlighted floor from the up floor and separate ground of the highlighted floor from down floor thus avoid mixing the floors elements and objects in visual. The building can be pitched automatically or manually toward the viewer.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor projected floor with highlighted floor projected and enlarged is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. Highlighted floor can be projected and enlarged in a separate position . The whole building can be very small while the highlighted floor can be large to display more details. The building can be pitched automatically or manually toward the viewer.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor sliding unselected floors with up unselected floors rotated to a new angle is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The up unselected floors can be rotated in order to move it to a new place and angle and separate it from the highlighted floor so that the highlighted floor can be displayed more clearly. This provides a sky view of the highlighted floor to the end user.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor sliding unselected floors with manually or automatically pitch the building towards the viewer is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. Pitch the building towards the viewer so that the highlighted floor can be displayed more clearly. The highlighted floor can be rotated as illustrated by an arrow in in order to move it to a new place so that the highlighted floor can be displayed directly and more clearly. The building can be pitched automatically or manually toward the viewer. The pitch range can be from 0 to 90 degrees depending on the application needs.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor turning the pages with up unselected floors turned is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The process of turn over the up unselected floors is similar to turning over the pages of a book so that the highlighted floor can be displayed with greater and enhanced details. This feature provides to the end use a sky view of the highlighted floor .

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting a graphical metaphor of turning the pages by manually pitching the building towards the viewer is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The highlighted floor can be rotated as illustrated by an arrow in in order to move the feature to a new position so that the highlighted floor can be displayed directly and more clearly. The building can also be pitched towards the viewer so that the highlighted floor is displayed with greater clarity. The building can be graphically pitched automatically or manually toward the viewer as illustrated in . The pitch range can be from 0 to 90 degrees depending on the application needs.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting the graphical metaphor of a Big map small map with a highlighted floor enlarged and displayed in the whole screen is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The highlighted floor can be graphically enlarged and displayed in the whole screen while a small window can be provided which indicates an overview of the building model with respect to the highlighted floor . The window can be displayed on the bottom left to provide a context for the multi floor building model .

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting a graphical metaphor fisheye with transparent view of the whole building in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The building can be graphically pitched automatically or manually toward the viewer.

Referring to a three dimensional view of a graphically displayed multi floor building model highlighting a graphical metaphor of a fisheye with highlighted floor enlarged and shrink unselected floors with a distorted display is illustrated in accordance with an alternative embodiment. The building can be graphically pitched automatically or manually toward the viewer.

Referring to a high level flow chart of operations depicting logical operational steps of a method for displaying a selected floor with sufficient details in the context of a three dimensional building model is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment. The process depicted in can be initiated as indicated at block . Thereafter as illustrated at block one or more graphical metaphors can be provided which permit a user to graphically select a floor from among a plurality of floors of the three dimensional building model as described earlier. The selected floor can be highlighted from among a plurality of floors as shown at block . Next as depicted at block the three dimensional building model can be graphically pitched automatically or manually towards the viewer. Thereafter as indicated at block the selected floor can be expanded and the unselected floors are then generally compressed in order to extrude the selected floor from the three dimensional building model . The process can then terminate as indicated at block .

Note that variations may be implemented with respect to the above referenced methods. For example in accordance with an alternative embodiment it may not be necessary to include the operations described above with respect to blocks or . Additionally the process sequence between the operations described at blocks and may be interchangeable depending upon design considerations and implementations for alternative embodiments. It can also be appreciated that the various views illustrated herein with respect to can be graphically displayed for a user via a display device such as for example monitor depicted in .

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

