---

title: Sleep optimization based on system information block scheduling
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are presented for sleep optimization based on system information block SIB scheduling. A method for invoking sleep states within user equipment (UE) is presented. The method includes decoding a broadcast control channel with a cell, determining a System Information Block (SIB) schedule associated with the cell, determining a sleep time interval based upon the SIB schedule, and placing the UE in a sleep state using the sleep time intervals. An apparatus for invoking sleep states within UE is presented. The apparatus includes logic configured to decode a broadcast control channel with a cell, logic configured to determine a SIB schedule associated with the cell, logic configured to determine a sleep time interval based upon the SIB schedule, and logic configured to place the UE in a sleep state using the sleep time intervals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08185726&OS=08185726&RS=08185726
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08185726
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070425
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 796 076 entitled INCREASING DYNAMIC STANDBY TIME BY REDUCING IDLE MODE POWER CONSUMPTION THROUGH INTER SIB SLEEP FEATURE FOR UMTS PHONES filed on Apr. 27 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The embodiments of the disclosure relate generally to wireless communications processing and more specifically to processing which may enhance the battery life of mobile communication devices.

With the increasing popularity of third generation high speed wireless services and the multifunctional mobile devices that enable them it can be expected that the daily usage time may continue to rise. As users become more accustomed to anytime anywhere high speed data network access the battery life of mobile devices may be a driving factor in determining the usage time. Consequently the battery life will likely rise in importance as one of the major selling points for individuals making purchasing decisions. Market research indicates that consumers realize that powerful new applications may involve extending battery life and these consumers will likely be demanding these improvements.

In addition to improvements in battery technology current efforts to extend battery life focus around various aspects of the design of mobile devices affecting battery consumption. Examples of such efforts can include improvements in the energy efficiency of radio frequency RF components displays and digital electronics including various processors and logic circuits.

In parallel to these endeavors there may be additional room for battery life improvement by the optimization of the mobile device sleep cycles. There are several factors which may play a role in the dynamics of the sleep cycles of mobile devices in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS networks. Some of these factors have been standardized while others may depend on the particular implementations on the network and on a particular mobile device.

However conventional techniques have not yet taken advantage of all of the implementation specific mechanisms which can affect the sleep cycle during mobile device idle modes and therefore extend their battery life.

Accordingly it would be beneficial to implement techniques within a mobile device which are adaptable to a variety of UMTS networks and which can extend the operational time of the mobile device s battery.

Embodiments disclosed herein provide for methods and apparatuses for sleep optimization based on system information block scheduling.

A method for invoking sleep states within user equipment UE is provided. The method includes decoding a broadcast control channel from a cell determining a System Information Block SIB schedule associated with the cell determining a sleep time interval based upon the SIB schedule and placing the UE in a sleep state using the sleep time interval. Embodiments of the method may include further reading a Master Information Block MIB to determine the SIB schedule and reading a Scheduling Block SB to further determine the SIB schedule when the SIB schedule information is not contained in the MIB further associating System Frame Numbers SFN with each SIB based upon the SIB schedule establishing a SIB scheduling database populating the SIB scheduling database with a SIB scheduling bit map and computing a plurality of distances based upon the SIB scheduling bit map wherein each distance represents a duration of time between adjacent SIB which are to be decoded and further determining whether a distance within the plurality of distances exceeds a threshold and if a distance exceeds a threshold the method further includes determining whether a conflict exits within the distance establishing a sleep time based upon the distance if a conflict does not exist and establishing at least one modified sleep time if a conflict does exist.

The apparatus includes logic configured to decode a broadcast control channel with a cell logic configured to determine a System Information Block SIB schedule associated with the cell logic configured to determine a sleep time interval based upon the SIB schedule and logic configured to place the UE in a sleep state using the sleep time intervals. Other embodiments of the apparatus may include further logic configured to read a Master Information Block MIB to determine the SIB schedule and logic configured to read a Scheduling Block SB to further determine the SIB schedule when the SIB schedule information is not contained in the MIB further logic configured to associate System Frame Numbers SFN with each SIB based upon the SIB schedule logic configured to establish a SIB scheduling database logic configured to populate the SIB scheduling database with a SIB scheduling bit map and logic configured to compute a plurality of distances based upon the SIB scheduling bit map wherein each distance represents a duration of time between adjacent SIB which are to be decoded and further logic configured to determine whether a distance within the plurality of distances exceeds a threshold and if a distance exceeds a threshold the apparatus further includes logic configured to determine whether a conflict exits within the distance logic configured to establish a sleep time based upon the distance if a conflict does not exist and logic configured to establish at least one modified sleep time if a conflict does exist.

Accordingly it would be beneficial to implement techniques within a mobile device which are adaptable to a variety of UMTS networks and which can extend the operational time of the mobile device s battery.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

One mode that the UE may be in is an idle mode which may be characterized by the absence of a signaling connection with the UMTS network . While in idle mode the UE may either be in a sleep state or in a wake up state. In the sleep state the UE shuts down its RF circuitry and maintains no physical channels. The UE may periodically go into the wake up state in order to demodulate a Paging Indicator Channel PICH and evaluate the signal quality of the serving cell and the neighboring cell . The UE may go into the wake up state during its periodic paging occasions whose timing conventionally depends on the UE identifier called IMSI International Mobile Subscriber Identity . This approach may provide an equal spread of paging occasions in time. The frequency of paging occasions may be determined by a network parameter. For example in one embodiment a DRX Cycle Coefficient may be used and may be included in the system information broadcast on a specific channel called a Broadcast Control Channel BCCH to all devices in a given cell.

Further referring to the UMTS network may be a high speed packet based data network carrying voice video audio text and or any other known types of data. The UMTS network may be for example a third generation Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network. The UMTS network may be accessed using UEs taking a variety of different forms. The UE shown in is a cellular telephone. However the UE may not be limited to the illustrated device and can also be any device which connects to the UMTS network such as for example a personal digital assistant a pager and or a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal. More than one UE device may be simultaneously in communication with the serving cell and the neighboring cell .

The SIBs provide the UE with system information such as cell ID core network domain information UE timers constants and other parameters that can be used to establish a connection to the neighbor cell. The SIBs may be classified into various types and their size may vary depending upon the information they contain.

The SIBs may be broadcast throughout the cell on a periodic basis and a single SIB may be segmented across multiple system information messages . The MIBs contain information about the scheduling of the SIBs including the repetition count number of segments SFN of the first segment and SFN offset for the remaining segments if any for each of the SIBs. Sometimes in addition to MIB the BCCH may include scheduling blocks SB which may contain the information for SIBs that have not been included in the MIB.

The UE may collect SIBs upon the following events when UE is powered up when an MIB value tag changes when an out of service condition occurs or any other condition when a cell selection reselection occurs. Each time the UE reselects to a neighboring cell whose valid system information it does not have the UE can collect the SIBs of the neighboring cell . Upon reselection to a new cell the UE should collect the SIBs that carry the system information required for the operation in idle mode. The UE may be configured to postpone reading other system information blocks until the content is needed. Decoding and managing of the information broadcasted on the N BCCH is the task of the Radio Resource Control RRC layer in the UE. The RRC can read the SIB scheduling info from MIBs collect and reassemble SIB segments and decode the system information parameters contained therein. The RRC layer is discussed in further detail below in the description of .

Further referring to a conventional sleep algorithm is described for a UE. At point the UE woke up from a sleep state. The duration of time it may take for the UE to awaken will likely prevent it from being able to read MIB however the UE should be fully awake to read MIB and obtain the scheduling information for the subsequent SIBs. Because the UE is using a conventional sleep algorithm it will stay awake for the entire duration . Once the last SIB is collected the UE will go to sleep at time period to conserve power. Using a conventional sleep algorithm the UE stayed awake during the entire SIB collection time. Therefore the UE may spend more time than necessary in the awakened state thus draining the battery faster. Moreover if there are any errors in decoding any of the SIBs the UE may remain awake even for a greater period of time thus taxing the battery even further.

Referring to initially the UE may wake up from a sleep state and start demodulating the neighboring cell s BCCH denoted as N BCCH at time . The UE may not have enough time to acquire MIB and may thus first acquire MIB at SFN . Once demodulated the MIB can provide scheduling information for the SIBs within the acquisition period denoted at time corresponding to SNF . The UE will stay awake for period to collect SIBs and . At point UE may go into a sleep state for time period and avoid reading the MIBs being rebroadcast at SFN through SFN . At point UE may wake up to read the remaining SIBs and . Note that UE may remain awake throughout the entire time period even though demodulating MIB may be redundant. This is because their may not be enough time for UE to execute a sleep wake cycle in the time span between SFN and SFN . At time UE has read the SIBs and can enter a sleep state. The SIBs from the neighboring cell may be used during the UE s idle mode operation for monitoring the neighboring cell

In summary embodiments of the invention allow the UE to detect the time gaps of sufficient length during SIB acquisition and use them as opportunities to go into sleep state without missing SIBs. This process is referred to herein as Inter SIB Sleep Optimization ISSO . ISSO can prevent the UE from remaining in the wake up state longer than necessary to acquire the desired SIB information. The SIB scheduling scheme used in UMTS networks can affect the battery life of mobile devices with or without the ISSO. However ISSO may improve the UE standby battery life for any given SIB scheduling scheme. Since SIB scheduling schemes are not specified in the UMTS standard specifications they may vary significantly among commercial networks. In another embodiment ISSO may be used to read SIB segments. SIBs may be segmented into multiple blocks e.g. and if their size exceeds the space constraints of a single block. In these situations one embodiment of the ISSO can track the collection of the SIB segments as they are encountered as opposed to only tracking the aggregated SIB after all of the segments have been collected. This approach may permit the UE to further sleep time as it obviates the recollection of SIB segments which may be available over several cycles.

Embodiments of the invention can automatically adapt to work with the SIB scheduling of any UMTS network including currently deployed commercial networks. Accordingly the MIB and SIB structure shown in is merely exemplary and that embodiments of the invention can adapt to other networks having other MIB and SIB configurations.

An exemplary UE is shown in in the form of a cellular telephone. The UE may have a platform that can exchange data and or commands with the UMTS Network . The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a SIB scheduling database which may be used in the ISSO process and is described in more detail below. Exemplary communication protocol layers in the wireless network may also reside in the platform and which may execute various commands and processes at different layers. The communication protocol layers may include a Radio Resource Control RRC layer a Radio Link Control RLC layer a Medium Access Control MAC layer and a Physical Layer L1 . Information received the physical layer e.g. Primary Common Control Physical Channel PCCPCH may be decoded and transferred between the various layers MAC RLC and RRC e.g. Broadcast Channel BCH Broadcast Control Channel BCCH as is known in the art. Conventionally the information passes from layer to layer in a sequential manner. However in various embodiments of the invention a direct interface may be provided between RRC and L1 in order to share scheduling information via the SIB scheduling bit map. Such embodiments may have the RRC decode the SIBs determine the SIB scheduling information and subsequently generate the SIB Scheduling bit map. Interface may be used by the RRC initially pass the SIB scheduling bit map to L1 and subsequently inform L1 regarding successful decoding of SIBs so that the SIB scheduling bit map may be updated accordingly. This provides the opportunity to further sleep time by avoiding the decoding of previously decoded SIBs. Scheduling information may contain offsets repetition periods and the number of segments of the different SIB types.

However alternative embodiments may involve determining the SIB scheduling information in any other layer and or location. For example other embodiments may have L1 compute the SIB scheduling information if the UE has sufficient processing resources to perform this task. Because the broadcast time of the MIB may be periodic SFN Mod 0 L1 may know the MIBs position and can decode the SIB schedule itself to determine the SIB scheduling bit map without the aid of the RRC. Such embodiments may reduce communications overhead between RRC and L1 and thus potentially affording the UE a greater amount of sleep time.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include the UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. The various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein.

For example ASIC memory and API may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

Over the N BCCH the UE can receive various system information messages e.g. MIBs and SBs as discussed above so the UE may then determine a SIB schedule associated with the neighboring cell . From information derived from the SIB schedule sleep time intervals for the UE may be determined based upon the various SIBs to be acquired and the delays in the UE see for details . The UE may then be placed in sleep states based upon the sleep time intervals . This may be accomplished by having L1 place various portions of the UE s hardware into a low power sleep state e.g. powering down the transceiver RF circuitry .

A check may then be performed to determine if dexceeds a threshold . The threshold may be based upon the warm up time before the UE is fully awake the tear down time before the UE is fully asleep from the wake up state and a preset threshold for full asleep duration. is an illustration depicting a generalized wake up and tear down cycle. The warm up time w is the amount of time the UE may take to transition from the sleep state to the awake state. The tear down time t is the amount of time the UE may take to transition from the awake state to the sleep state. The predetermined threshold value s is the minimum amount of time the UE may sleep. In some embodiments the wake up time w may be 40 ms the tear down time t may be 30 ms and the threshold value s may be 10 ms. Other embodiments may utilize different values for w t and s which may depend upon the specific characteristics of the various embodiments of the ISSO and or the UMTS network itself.

Further referring to if dexceeds the threshold a determination may be made as to whether other conflicts exist . For example within the distance d a determination of whether a conflict between the Paging Indicator Channel PICH and the SIB exists . If a conflict exists a conflict resolution algorithm is performed and at least one modified sleep time is determined . The process may then proceed to increment a counter i so the next dmay be computed with the next adjacent SIB pair . If a conflict does not exist in block a sleep time may be established between SFN nand n . As before control may flow to block to increment the counter i so the subsequent SIB pair is processed to compute d . A check may then be performed to determine if a SIB has been decoded . If so then the SIB scheduling bit map is updated so that the previously decoded SIB is not decoded again. The SIB scheduling bitmap may be updated by the RRC and the updated bitmap may be passed to L1 through pipe . L1 may then recalculate the sleep time intervals based upon the updated bitmap. A final check can be performed to determine if the SIBs indicated in the bit map have been processed . If not then the process returns to block to compute d.

Further referring to one exemplary conflict which the UE can resolve is between a SIB being received over the N BCCH and paging indication bits being received over the serving cell PICH. If block determines there is a conflict between a SIB and a PICH then the time periods between the adjacent SIB and a PICH may be determined . These time periods may then be tested to determine if each period are of sufficient duration for placing the UE in a sleep state . If so at least one new modified sleep time is established otherwise no sleep time is established so the UE does not sleep through the PICH . Control may then be returned to block . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate the conflict resolution process may be performed for a wide variety of interrupts occurring over various channels such as for example S PCCPCH serving cell SIBs CTCH BMC broadcast and MICH MCCH and MTCH for MBMS .

Information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. The described functionality may be implemented in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of embodiments of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable media embodying a method for invoking sleep states within user equipment. For example the method can include receiving a broadcast control channel from a cell determining an SIB schedule associated with the cell determining sleep time intervals based upon the SIB schedule and placing the UE in a sleep state using the sleep time intervals. Accordingly the invention is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. For example while the ISSO is described above in the context of neighboring cell reselection at power up and or any change in SIB state the ISSO may be utilized to improve the power efficiency during serving cell selection. The UE may store SIB information after the serving cell is first acquired and optimize SIB collection upon serving cell selection or when there is a change in the parameters of the serving cell. For example when the UE reestablishes the serving cell BCCH S BCCH the UE may not have to reread previously decoded SIB over S BCCH but rather may read only SIBs which have changed. This approach avoids having to read all of the SIBs over again. Moreover the ISSO can be implemented for other conditions which are not expressly described herein.

The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

After RRC instructs L1 to establish N BCCH RRC may decode the Primary Common Control Physical Channel PCCPCH frames received from L1 and may ignore the SIBs until the MIB is successfully decoded. RRC may then generate the SIB Scheduling Database SSD based on the scheduling information in the MIB. As soon as the SSD is ready RRC may share the SSD with the Sleep Manager SM which can be part of L1 and may also inform L1 that the SSD is available. The SSD can include 2048 memory locations each carrying 1 or 0. Having a 1 in a memory location n means that the UE needs to decode the BCCH starting at SFN 2n and having a 0 means that the UE does not need to decode SFNs 2n and 2n 1. Alternatively SSD can comprise of 4096 memory locations each carrying 1 or 0. Having a 1 in a memory location m means that UE needs to decode the BCCH starting at SFN m and having a 0 means that UE does not need to decode SFN m.

When a SIB or Scheduling Block SB is expected to be repeated more than once during one SFN cycle RRC may assign 1 to all such SIB or SB occurrences during the whole SFN cycle. RRC may assign 0 to all the memory locations at which N BCCH does not need to be decoded.

RRC may compute the SSD from the scheduling information in the MIB and SBs which contain the offset SIB OFF SIB REP and SEG COUNT for each SIB type.

If the SFNs corresponding to different segments of a SIB or SB are not explicitly given in the MIB then RRC may compute the starting SFN of the jth segment of the kth occurrence of SIB i and the SBs as the following pseudo code 0 2 OFF 0 1  REP for 1 I If 0 mod 8 0 then 0 0 2 f 1 2 for 1 . . . SEG COUNT 1. If mod 8 0 then 2 a

If any segment of a SIB happens to be at an SFN carrying MIB then that segment may be added by two SFNs unless it is explicitly given at that particular SFN which may then be multiplexed with MIB.

RRC may inform L1 as soon as SSD is available. RRC may also inform L1 whenever SSD gets updated through the following two scenarios 

This feature may not change the procedure that leads to establishing the N BCCH for collecting SIBs before cell reselection during idle mode.

After N PCCPCH setup once L1 receives the indicator with regard to availability or an update in SSD from RRC L1 may call the SM and shall compute and update whether it can go to sleep or not. If it could go to sleep L1 may also compute and update the Time To Wake up TTW based on the following parameters 

Before L1 goes to sleep after demodulating a PICH or SIB at the current time t L1 may also call SM and may compute and update whether it can go to sleep or not and if yes may compute and update TTW as well.

In the following t TD or PTD depending on whether L1 has been demodulating an SIB or PICH before being ready to go to sleep at time t respectively.

Else L1 shall compute T t t t and g t t. Then If and go to sleep and Else If and go to sleep and . Else If do not go to sleep.

Care should be taken that for SIB the UE uses the appropriate parameters which can take a longer time compared to PICH. However this longer time is embedded in WU as opposed to shorter PWU.

When there are no more 1 s in the SSD L1 shall go to sleep unless a PICH occasion has been scheduled where L1 shall follow PICH sleep wake up procedure as already implemented.

If L1 could not acquire an N BCCH due to neighbor reacquisition search failure L1 can use the previous positions of the neighbor PSC in order to demodulate N PCCPCH.

