---

title: System and method for altering settings on electronic devices based upon sensing stimuli
abstract: Disclosed is a method and system for altering settings on portable electronic devices based upon the surrounding sounds. The system and method create a series of improvements in electronic devices that enable a person to have a greater possibility to hear their name being called, important signals or emergency vehicles while using their electronic devices are in use by the instant user. An example embodiment (i) provides at least one sensor connected to a portable device, each sensor detecting surrounding sounds; (ii) recognizing a specific sound among the surrounding sounds by the at least one sensor by matching the specific sound to one of a plurality of reference sounds; and (iii) altering settings of the portable device from a first setting to a second setting, in a first event the specific sound matches with one of the plurality of reference sounds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07884714&OS=07884714&RS=07884714
owner: Voorhuis PLC, Limited Liability Company
number: 07884714
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070105
---
It is well known that communication problems can occur when an individual is in the process of utilizing an electronic device whether that device is a cell phone or a portable media player certain problems in communication can arise. One such problem is that when a persons name is called while that person is using an electronic device many times they do not hear their name being called. The same scenario is true of a person who may not have the ability to hear an emergency siren because they are listening to an electronic device either using headphones or simply held to the ear.

Currently electronic devices can be turned down manually if the user or someone nearby the user accesses the controls to the device or removes the headphones or device from the user s ear. Some devices may also respond to voice activated controls of the settings from the user to make adjustments to the specific controls of the device.

Conventional models have devices with noise limiters or maximum volume controls installed inside the devices. Devices may also have voice activated controls over settings such as volume or content selection. Manual operation of settings is still the most common way that volume control is adjusted.

Unfortunately these controls do not address the problem that is encountered when someone using an electronic device has the volume raised to a level that they cannot hear their name being called important announcements or emergency vehicles or warning bells.

Accordingly the present invention creates a series of improvements in electronic devices that enable a person to have a greater possibility to hear their name being called important signals or emergency vehicles while using their electronic devices.

The present invention relates to the ability to change the setting of an electronic device based upon the electronic sensing of certain stimuli or conditions by that device or a networked companion device.

In a preferred embodiment is a method and system that i provides at least one sensor connected to a portable device each sensor detecting surrounding sounds ii recognizing a specific sound among the surrounding sounds by the at least one sensor by matching the specific sound to one of a plurality of reference sounds and iii altering settings of the portable device from a first setting to a second setting in a first event the specific sound matches with one of the plurality of reference sounds.

The portable device may include a device recorder such as a microphone a system management processor having software programs that decipher specific sounds among the surrounding sounds of the receiver by waveform analysis or via traditional voice activation matching techniques where certain surround sounds such as emergency sirens are pre loaded into the device software program via locally cached storage system . Other sounds such as the user s name children s voices children crying etc. can be manually loaded by the user into the system via the device recorder .

By utilizing a waveform matching database to identify sounds the device recorder such as a microphone passes all sounds to a waveform database storage system cached within access to a media layer and developed according to the media players Application Programming Interface Guide API . When the media player or other voice recognition application such as one by Dragon Systems plays a matching sound that is passed to and matched in the database storage system by voice activation or waveform analysis the system management processor may then electronically signal the portable device through a programming gateway in the device hardware API that results in the volume control message being sent and receiving a message to mute the volume for a specified period of time. This specified period of time can be set for until the user manually raises the volume or any other increment of time that the portable device may be set to.

Data from the surrounding sound external to the receiver is ultimately processed by an application designed to call out functions that may cause the portable device to alter its settings. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that there are many functions to call resulting in the portable device to alter its settings. In one embodiment of the present invention such specialized functions may be dynamic link libraries DLLs . For example a DLL may tag a sound so that the portable device alters its settings. There may be numerous tags each tag being associated with a particular reference sound stored on the storage system . For example the DLL tags a siren sound to cause the portable device to mute the volume. Moreover there may be numerous DLLs each having a different technique or means for altering the portable device settings.

Dynamically linked libraries may be originally created using an editor from any standard or proprietary computer language such as for example C JAVA JavaScript JScript C Visual Basic VB. NET etc. After the libraries are written they are compiled into application project files within the DLL which are then linked with the system management processor . The steps of writing and compiling dynamically linked libraries generally happen offline before the execution of the system management processor. In an alternative embodiment of the invention additional dynamically linked libraries may be added during the execution of the system as deemed necessary by one of skill in the art.

For a portable device such as an iPod which one does not think of as a device that can readily accept outside media instructions this invention may also be valid. The iPod has been shown in practice via the Nike iPod to be able to feed register and display externally sensed data with its iPod Nike hardware and software application which broadcasts a runner s real time progress to the user of the device via traditional audio or video programming being interrupted. This concept is applied wholly with this invention except it is applied for the sensing and recognition of certain sounds via voice recognition system which can be applied internally and or externally to the device such as the iPod to facilitate the safety warning or increase external communication for the user. This external sensor system may utilize radio frequency identification RFID exchanges between or one way sending from the receiver to the portable device that are then registered as data points via the RFID reader. The RFID reader data is converted to actual user readable data via the use of a database being cached inside the portable device for matching purposes. The co owned patent application entitled System and Method for RFID Voice Signature by Gene S. Fein and Edward Merritt discloses methods for utilizing RFID exchanges. Other RFID data techniques are also suitable for the present invention. A display unit displays the user readable data and other visual indicators of the operation of device as will become clear later.

The surrounding sounds sensed by the receiver and voice audio matching software are reduced to a RFID signal that is sent to the portable device once it registers a match of sounds that are set to activate the volume mute or volume limiting function. This is similar to how the iPod Nike model functions. Also the iPod has been shown to be able to be hacked to be able to interface with the linux operating systems and run different applications on the linux hacked iPod some of these related hacks can be found at www.ipodlinux.org. This is analogous to running the audio matching and volume limiting software and menu display. These settings may also be refined to add entertainment value to the device by adding commands such as raising the volume when one hear a specific person s voice someone calling one s name a dog barking or airplane noise. The portable device may also be set to play a specific song or video selection based upon the sensing of a specific noise. The specific noise may be the sounds that are stored in the storage system .

Client computer s devices and server computer s provide processing storage and input output devices executing application programs and the like. Client computer s devices can also be linked through communications network to other computing devices including other client devices processes and server computer s . Communications network can be part of a remote access network a global network e.g. the Internet a worldwide collection of computers Local area or Wide area networks and gateways that currently use respective protocols TCP IP Bluetooth etc. to communicate with one another. Other electronic device computer network architectures are suitable.

In one embodiment the processor routines and data are a computer program product generally referenced including a computer readable medium e.g. a removable storage medium such as one or more DVD ROM s CD ROM s diskettes tapes etc. that provides at least a portion of the software instructions for the invention system. Computer program product can be installed by any suitable software installation procedure as is well known in the art. In another embodiment at least a portion of the software instructions may also be downloaded over a cable communication and or wireless connection. In other embodiments the invention programs are a computer program propagated signal product embodied on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. a radio wave an infrared wave a laser wave a sound wave or an electrical wave propagated over a global network such as the Internet or other network s . Such carrier medium or signals provide at least a portion of the software instructions for the present invention routines program .

In alternate embodiments the propagated signal is an analog carrier wave or digital signal carried on the propagated medium. For example the propagated signal may be a digitized signal propagated over a global network e.g. the Internet a telecommunications network or other network. In one embodiment the propagated signal is a signal that is transmitted over the propagation medium over a period of time such as the instructions for a software application sent in packets over a network over a period of milliseconds seconds minutes or longer. In another embodiment the computer readable medium of computer program product is a propagation medium that the computer system may receive and read such as by receiving the propagation medium and identifying a propagated signal embodied in the propagation medium as described above for computer program propagated signal product.

Generally speaking the term carrier medium or transient carrier encompasses the foregoing transient signals propagated signals propagated medium storage medium and the like.

Further the present invention may be implemented in a variety of computer architectures. The computer network of are for purposes of illustration and not limitation of the present invention.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims. For example the foregoing description of system responses e.g. volume control muting song change audio visual indicators etc. to sensor detecting surrounding sounds is by way of illustration and not limitation. It is understood that the invention system may respond with a respective different setting for different detected surrounding sounds muting in response to detected emergency alarm siren decreasing volume in response to detected human or animal noise etc. . Further the invention system may utilize any combination of volume control audio change and visual indication per setting change in response to detected surrounding sounds. The combination in some embodiments may be in series or in parallel or the like.

