---

title: System and method for performing an action on a phone in response to a user initiating an outbound call to one or more select phone numbers
abstract: The present invention provides a system, method and software application for associating one or more phone numbers with an action on a phone and performing an action on the phone in response to the user initiating a call to one of such phone numbers. Certain phone numbers are associated with an action. The user's phone, or a server with which the user's phone communicates, maintains a table of the phone numbers associated with an action, and each phone number in the table is related to an action. Software on the user's phone listens for call initiated by a user. When the user initiates a call, software on the phone “intercepts” the call, and the phone (or a server with which the phone communicates) determines whether the call is to a phone number that is in the table. If the phone number is in the table, then it is associated with an action, and the user's phone performs that action at a time specified by instructions for such action. The action may be performed before, during, or after the call depending on the instructions associated with the call. Whether a call is placed to the original phone number ultimately depends on the action and the user's response to the action.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08363807&OS=08363807&RS=08363807
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 08363807
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 529 078 titled Software Program and Method for Reducing Misdirected Calls to a Select Destination filed on Sep. 28 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 792 226 and having inventors Sandeep M. Bhojwani and Jayadev Billa the contents of which are incorporated by reference as if fully disclosed herein.

This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 636 172 titled Software Program and Method for Providing Promotions on a Phone filed on Dec. 8 2006 and having inventor Kevin M. Stone the contents of which are incorporated by reference as if fully disclosed herein.

This invention relates generally to telecommunications and more specifically to associating actions on a phone with phone numbers.

It is often desirable to perform an automated action in response to a user making a call on a phone especially when the call is to a business. For instance when a user dials a phone number for a business it may be desirable to play a promotion to the user related to the business. Also when a user dials a customer care center it is often desirable to provide the user with automated self service options. In known systems a user can be played a promotion or provided with self service options once a user calls into an Interactive Voice Response IVR system.

In some cases using the IVR system to provide such automated information services has several disadvantages. First an IVR system provides the user with promotions self service options or other actions only by a voice interface. For some interactions it is often more effective to provide the user with information via a graphical interface or via both a graphical and voice interface . Second when a user is connected to an IVR system the user is consuming IVR system resources. The more IVR resources consumed the larger and more costly the IVR system is. Third the action taken is controlled by the owner or operator of the IVR system. In the case of playing a promotion to a user this means that the promotions that are played are usually promotions associated or approved by the party that owns or controls the IVR system e.g. the airline that owns the 1 800 number dialed by the user . In such case it is not possible for a competitor to pay for a promotion to be played when a user dials a phone number for a competing business.

Therefore it would be desirable to intercept calls to certain numbers before they are placed and perform certain automated actions on the phone where examples of such action include providing self service customer care options playing a promotion or providing a user with the option to download a software application. There are software applications for phones that provide user s with technical assistance information i.e. troubleshooting but such software application are not triggered upon the user initiating a call. Rather the user must take the initiative to open and use such applications.

The present invention provides a system method and software application for associating one or more phone numbers with an action on a phone and performing an action on the phone in response to the user initiating a call to one of such phone numbers. Certain phone numbers are associated with an action. The user s phone or a server with which the user s phone communicates maintains a table of the phone numbers associated with an action and each phone number in the table is related to an action.

Software on the user s phone listens for call initiated by a user. When the user initiates a call software on the phone intercepts the call before it is placed and the phone or a server with which the phone communicates determines whether the call is to a phone number that is in the table. If the phone number is in the table then it is associated with an action and the user s phone performs that action at a time specified by instructions for such action. The action may be performed before during or after the call depending on the instructions associated with the call. Whether a call is placed to the original phone number depends on the action and the user s response to the action.

One example of the invention is that an action may be associated with a customer care phone number for a business i.e. a customer service number . The action may be to display one or more self service options when a user dials a phone number for customer care. Another example is that when a user initiates a call to a certain phone number the user may be given the option to download to the phone a software application. A further example is to provide the user with various call routing options when the user initiates a call to a particular phone number.

As shown in the method involves associating one or more phone numbers with an action that can be performed by the phone . The phone or a server with which the phone communicates stores a table of the phone numbers that are associated with an action where the table relates each phone number in the table to an action . The phone specifically software on the phone then listens for phone calls initiated by the user . In response to a user initiating a call to a phone number the phone or a server with which the phone communicates determines whether or not the phone number is in the table that lists phone numbers associated with actions . Such determination is made prior to placing the call. If it is not in the table the phone proceeds with placing the call as normal .

If the phone number is in the table the phone obtains the instructions associated with the action for the phone number and performs the action at the time specified by the instructions . The action may be performed before during after placing the called to the phone number depending on the instructions associated with the action. Also the action may be performed in lieu of placing the call. Whether or not the call is eventually placed can depend on the nature of the action and the user s response to the action.

Each phone number may be associated with a different action or multiple phone numbers can be associated with the same action. Also there may be more than one action associated with a single phone number and the action selected when the user dials the phone number can depend on information about the user such as geographic information the user s calling plan or known user preferences.

For cost reasons most companies would prefer for the customer to resolve customer care issues using automated mechanisms instead of live agent time. One way in which this invention could be used is to associate the customer care phone number for a business with a display on the phone of automated customer care options. When a user initiates a call to the customer care center the phone intercepts the call and displays a list of customer care options which includes the original number dialed by the user and at least one self service option. The user is then routed to the option selected by the user.

The interface may be retrieved from a local cache on the phone or from a remote server. The interface may be a page on the World Wide Web or can be any page that is in format that can be displayed in a browser on the phone. In an alternate embodiment customer care options are displayed in an SMS window or other text graphics user interface.

In one embodiment the Call Intercept Application is implemented as the Call Intercept Application Action Lookup Application and Action Handler Application described with respect to .

The configuration tool is a software application that communicates with users phones to download content for table . Also the configuration tool can be used to configure the interface associated with select phone numbers. General configuration tools for downloading content and software code to phones are known in art. illustrates an example of the user e.g. system administrator interface for configuration tool . A system administrator can associate a phone number with the display of an interface in window . In window the system administrator can configure the content of the interface. Previews of interface pages are displayed in window which in illustrates a preview of an interface page through which a user can add or remove voice features in a wireless communication plan.

Another example of the invention is to associate a business phone number with a business logo or trademark. An example of this is illustrated in . A call is initiated to a business the business s logo is displayed in the user interface of the phone while a call is placed to the business phone number and the call continues as normal . In a further embodiment information associated with the business can be displayed in addition to or in lieu of the logo trademark.

Another example of the invention is to associate a phone number with a promotion. When a user dials a select phone number a promotion is played to the user or the user is offered the option to hear a promotion . The promotion may be associated with the entity called a related entity or a competing entity. This method is described in more detail in parent application Ser. No. 11 636 172 which is incorporated by reference herein see Related Applications section .

Another example of the invention is to provide the user with a list of destination options when the user dials a particular phone number. This can help ensure that a user places a call to the correct destination. This method is described in more detail in parent application Ser. No. 11 529 078 which is incorporated by reference herein see Related Applications section .

Another example of the invention is to associate a phone number with an option to download a software application to the phone. illustrates an example of this implementation. A user initiates a call to a phone number that is associated with a software download option . The call continues as normal . After the call is completed the user is provided with the option to download a software application . In alternate embodiments the option may be presented i prior to placing the call ii prior to and in lieu of continuing the call or iii during the call.

The term table as used in this application need not be an exact table but can be any structure which is able to make associations. The table that relates phone numbers to actions may stored locally on the user s phone or remotely on a server. The table may store all information necessary for the phone to execute the action or may reference a network address or a local cache on the phone where further instructions can be obtained. If the table is stored on the phone then information for and updates to the table may be pushed to the phone or pulled by the phone. A remote server can send updates to the phone at the initiation of the remote server a push or at the request of the phone a pull .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a phone will include additional functionality not represented by the above modules. However such functionality is well known in the art and a discussion of such functionality is not relevant for an understanding of the invention described herein. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that there may be many ways to implement the present invention and the software implementation described herein with respect to is just one example of an implementation.

Call initiation event dispatchers e.g. keystroke event dispatchers user interface applications and dialer applications are well known in the art. The Call Initiation Event Dispatcher listens for call initiation events e.g. user dials phone number double clicks on a phone number uses voice activated dialing and provides such events to other applications on the phone that register for call initiation events. The Interceptor Application registers and receives call initiation events. The Dialer Application also registers for call initiation events and dials phone numbers initiated by the user unless such phone numbers are first consumed by the Interceptor Application . The User Interface Application enables the display of information in the user interface on the phone.

The Interceptor Application registers for call initiation events as a higher priority application than the Dialer Application . The Interceptor Application communicates with the Call Initiation Event Dispatcher via an applicable event listener application programming interface API . The operation of the other modules shown in is described with respect to .

If the phone number is not in table the Interceptor Application sleeps and allows the Dialer Application to consume the phone number where the Dialer Application will then dial the phone number.

If the phone number is in table the Action Lookup Application returns the action information to the Interceptor Application and the Interceptor Application launches the Action Handler Application . The Action Handler Application executes steps associated with the retrieved action . If the retrieved action requires a call either before during or after the action is fully executed the Action Handler Application passes the phone number to the Dialer Application and the Dialer Application dials the previously initiated action . Once execution of the action is complete the Action Handler exits .

In one embodiment the user can elect whether or not to have the Interceptor Application activated on his her phone. In such embodiment the Call Intercept Application intercepts calls to perform an action on the phone only if such feature is enabled by the user.

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Accordingly the above disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative and not limiting of the invention.

