---

title: Filter monitor-flow meter combination sensor
abstract: A method for monitoring a filter installed in a fluid system. The steps include providing a reference region in the fluid system, the region including a chamber having a known volume and releasing a fluid from the chamber configured to flow through the reference region. The method further includes measuring pressure and temperature values at predetermined locations at predetermined time intervals and determining filter permeability values in response to measured pressure and temperature values. The method further includes comparing the filter permeability values to predetermined filter permeability values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07937987&OS=07937987&RS=07937987
owner: Circor Instrumentation Technologies, Inc.
number: 07937987
owner_city: Spartanburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070928
---
This Application is related to application Ser. No. 11 863 988 filed contemporaneously with this Application on Sep. 28 2007 entitled NON CLOGGING FLOW RESTRICTION FOR PRESSURE BASED FLOW CONTROL DEVICES assigned to the assignee of the present invention and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates generally to fluid flow systems and more particularly to monitoring performance of components of fluid flow systems.

Many industrial applications require monitoring of fluid flows. In addition the fluid flow streams may contain contaminants such as particulate matter that may be removed from the flow streams by filtration. Over time filters can clog often requiring shut down of plant critical analyzer equipment in order to replace the filters.

Thus there is a need for determining when filter replacement is required and further a framework for predicting when tests for determining possible filter replacement should be conducted.

For laminar or porous flow through a permeable membrane or porous element such as a filter the flow is governed by Darcy s law as shown for Equation 1.

Equation 2 shows the circumstance when a first pressure gauge P and a differential pressure sensor P are employed in the Darcy s law equation while Equation 3 represents shows the circumstance when first and second pressure gauges P P or absolute pressure sensors are employed in the Darcy s law equation.

By substitution of fluid density as shown in Equation 4 from the ideal gas law equation having non ideal compressibility Equations 5 and 6 for liquid flows are obtained.

Filter permeability can then be calculated as shown in Equation 7 using volumetric flow and Equation 8 using mass flow for gases .

Once filter permeability is known from an initial state calculation of mass flow or volumetric flow by measuring pressure drop over time in a fixed volume the fluid viscosity can be calculated as shown in Equation 9 using volumetric flow and Equation 10 using mass flow for gases .

The present invention relates to a method for monitoring a filter installed in a fluid system. The steps include providing a reference region in the fluid system the region including a chamber having a known volume and releasing a fluid from the chamber configured to flow through the reference region. The method further includes measuring pressure and temperature values at predetermined locations at predetermined time intervals and determining filter permeability values in response to measured pressure and temperature values. The method further includes comparing the filter permeability values to predetermined filter permeability values. The present invention further relates to a method of obtaining a viscosity value for a fluid in a fluid system. The method includes providing a reference region in the fluid system the region including a chamber having a known volume and releasing a fluid from the chamber configured to flow through the reference region. The method further includes measuring pressure and temperature values at predetermined locations at predetermined time intervals and determining a difference in pressure values at each of the chamber and the reference region at predetermined time intervals. The method further includes determining a filter permeability value from the measured pressure and temperature values and the calculated difference in pressure values and determining at least one of a mass flow rate and a volumetric flow rate of the fluid from at least one of the measured pressure and temperature values and the calculated difference in pressure values and from a separate device. The method further includes determining a fluid viscosity value wherein the filter permeability value remains substantially unchanged between the predetermined time intervals.

The present invention further relates to a method of obtaining a viscosity value for a fluid in a fluid system. The method includes providing a reference region in the fluid system the region including a chamber having a known volume and releasing a fluid from the chamber configured to flow through the reference region. The method further includes measuring pressure and temperature values at predetermined locations at predetermined time intervals and determining a difference in pressure values at each of the chamber and the reference region at predetermined time intervals. The method further includes determining a filter permeability value from the measured pressure and temperature values and the calculated difference in pressure values. The method further includes determining at least one of a mass flow rate and a volumetric flow rate of the fluid from at least one of the measured pressure and temperature values and the calculated difference in pressure values and from a separate device. The method further includes determining a fluid viscosity value wherein the filter permeability value remains substantially unchanged between the predetermined time intervals.

The present invention still further relates to a fluid system. The fluid system includes a reference region including a chamber having a known volume and a filter. The fluid system includes pressure and temperature sensors disposed at predetermined locations along the reference region. Upon selective release of a fluid from the chamber configured to flow through the reference region and measurement of pressure and temperature values by the pressure and temperature sensors at predetermined time intervals filter permeability values are calculable.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Referring now to the drawings shows a schematic view of a portion of a fluid system such as for use in fluid flow metering or flow control device . Flow control device includes a housing containing various measuring components and a control panel although the measuring components may be exterior of housing . Measuring components include but are not limited to temperature sensors and pressure sensors and may also include mass sensors not shown or sensors to measure other fluid parameters. In one embodiment flow control device is secured to a manifold to which is also secured a filter housing and a manifold for filtering pressurized fluid flow through flow control device .

As used herein the term measuring pressure in the context of measuring pressure at each of two locations is intended to include a pressure measurement at a first location and a differential pressure measurement between the first and second locations.

As further shown in a pressurized fluid from a pressurized fluid source such as a chamber of known volume is directed through a passageway formed in manifold upon the opening of a valve . Pressure sensor is immediately adjacent to and in fluid communication with pressurized fluid via passageway bridging passageway and sensor . Similarly one leg of differential pressure sensor is in fluid communication with pressurized fluid via passageway bridging passageway and pressure sensor . In one embodiment a bypass outlet is in fluid communication with passageway to further direct pressurized fluid if desired. Pressurized fluid is further directed through passageway and then passageway before flowing into filter housing and then through filter element or filter to remove particulates entrained in pressurized fluid .

After passing through filter pressurized fluid becomes filtered fluid . Upon passing through filter filtered fluid is then directed through passageway . The other leg of differential pressure sensor is in fluid communication with filtered fluid via passageway bridging passageway and differential pressure sensor so that differential pressure sensor measures the difference in pressure between pressurized fluid and filtered fluid . In one embodiment a bypass outlet is in fluid communication with passageway to further direct filtered fluid if desired. Filtered fluid is further directed through passageway in fluid communication with passageway which fluid referred to as pressurized fluid . For ease of description and convenience the pressure value or magnitude as sensed by pressure sensor is referred to as P and the pressure value or magnitude as sensed by the one leg of pressure sensor in communication with passageway which is pressurized fluid is P. The pressure value P refers to the backpressure downstream in fluid system . It is to be understood that while pressurized fluid P is shown in upstream of filter and pressurized fluid P and that the pressure value or magnitude of pressurized fluid P is greater than the pressure value or magnitude of pressurized fluid P both the pressure magnitudes and thus directions of travel of the pressurized fluids may be reversed.

As further shown in flow control device operates as follows. After valve is opened pressure values or magnitudes of pressurized fluid P from chamber are sensed or measured by pressure sensor at predetermined time intervals while differential pressure values or magnitudes between pressurized fluid P and pressurized fluid P are substantially simultaneously sensed or measured. For convenience this differential pressure corresponding to locations of pressurized fluids disposed on opposite sides of filter is referred to in as P. Similarly temperature values corresponding to positions in close proximity of pressurized fluids P P if required are sensed or measured by temperature sensors T T at predetermined time intervals substantially simultaneously as the pressurized fluid measurements.

Once the temperature pressure measurements are performed the pressure sensors and temperature sensors transmit signals corresponding to those measurements to an amplifier converter to amplify and or convert the signals from analog to digital form if required. In one embodiment signals from other devices not shown permitting mass flow measurement such as precision mass measurement devices or a mass spectrometer may be transmitted to amplifier converter to amplify and or convert the signals from analog to digital form if required.

After the various signals e.g. P P T T are transmitted from amplifier converter to microprocessor and saved in a storage device such as an EEPROM various calculations are performed as is known in the art such as volumetric fluid flow from chamber over time versus differential pressure for example by application of Equation 7 to yield a filter permeability constant e.g. see Kof . Once the filter permeability constant value K is calculated it may be stored and or compared to previously stored filter permeability constant values in storage device . In one embodiment a time reference corresponding to each calculated filter permeability constant value K is saved and compared in order to determine when subsequent filter permeability calculations should be performed based on historical data. That is over time filter permeability values K i.e. the slopes of the curves shown in decrease. which is a graphical representation of the life cycle of a filter further shows an operational region and a replacement recommended region . For example filter permeability curve Kcorresponds to an initial filter permeability curve such as when the filter is new and substantially unclogged or uncontaminated with particulates. A significant portion of the filter permeability curve Kis contained in the operational region of . However a significant portion of the filter permeability curve K3 i.e. the third calibration of the filter is contained in the replacement recommended region and is near the end of its operating life. Due to the accumulation of data in storage device trends relating to filter life are identified seeking a balance between minimizing the number of filter monitoring cycles which can result in shut down of portions of fluid system and probability of operating filters in a replacement recommended region or filter failure.

It is appreciated that electrical power required to operate components of flow control device may be provided by an electrical power source which includes but is not limited to a power grid batteries or other sources. Additionally in one embodiment a transceiver may receive and exchange information such as from a digital bus which may be transmitted over power lines or other wired or wireless devices and or techniques.

In order to minimize or eliminate shut down of a portion of fluid system while a filter is being replaced flow control device may include multiple modules only one shown in . In one embodiment multiple modules are disposed in a parallel flow arrangement such that one module may be maintained in fluid communication with the fluid system while the other modules are selectably isolated such as by use of valving arrangements not shown to replace filters or to perform a filter monitoring cycle without disturbing operation of the fluid system. In one embodiment module includes a filter housing and filter manifolds and corresponding sensors although the sensors may have multiple leads with the leads corresponding to the operating module remaining on line being active. Therefore in another embodiment of module the only components include a filter housing and filter associated manifolds and sensor leads.

As shown in which is otherwise similar to filter housing abuts and is in fluid communication with pressure sensors . As a result manifolds from are not required. A removable cap abuts filter housing and filter and is in fluid communication with both filter and one leg of differential pressure sensor by virtue of tee passageway . Upon removal of cap filter can be replaced. Pressurized fluid P is provided directly into filter housing the volume between filter and the inner surfaces of filter housing defining a chamber being a known volume in one embodiment. An optional bypass can be used to evacuate pressurized fluid in fluid housing .

It is to be understood that the filter permeability K decreases over time in response to becoming gradually more clogged and must therefore be monitored as the equations must account for the change in filter permeability to provide accurate information.

It is to be understood that in one embodiment of flow control device where the filter is not substantially contaminated or clogged and fluid viscosity is sufficiently low such as less than about 100 centipoise and exhibiting Newtonian behavior i.e. substantially devoid of shear thinning or thickening the flow control device can obtain an inferential value of the viscosity of the fluid.

Since filter permeability K is originally calculated with a known fluid deviation of differential pressure P may be an indication of a change in fluid viscosity . If filter permeability K is assumed to be substantially constant repeating numbered steps 1 3 above can be used to calculate fluid viscosity versus filter permeability K.

As shown in P stays substantially constant but P decreases and backpressure P increases. In response a possible action is to obtain backpressure from another sensor monitoring P if possible. If P continues to increase above a predetermined critical level the control panel notifies the operator such as by a low backpressure message. For example this scenario may be indicative of a clogged sample return line for bypass filters or a clogged malfunctioning device passage downstream.

As shown in P increases but P remains substantially constant and P backpressure increases. It is then assumed that the filter permeability K has decreased i.e. the filter is clogging. In response once calculated filter permeability decreases past a predetermined amount the control panel notifies the operator such as with a filter replacement message.

As shown in P decreases but P remains substantially the same and P backpressure decreases. It is then assumed that there is a low flow condition or obstruction upstream of the filter or a system leak. In response to a sufficient P backpressure decrease in combination with P decrease the control panel notifies the operator such as with a low flow condition message.

As shown in P increases but P decreases and P backpressure increases. It is then assumed that there are pressure regulation creep problems or filter clogging with a simultaneous decrease in outlet pressure. In response to a sufficient P backpressure increase in combination with P increase and P decrease the control panel notifies the operator such as with a general system error message.

As shown in P decreases P increases and P backpressure increases. This scenario could mean that a valve or restriction upstream caused interruption in inlet flow and a backflow condition in the system. This condition would normally be transient as P and P would equalize and P would equilibrate unless a sufficient amount of particulate clogged the valve from the backside and effectively plugged the filter thereby allowing backpressure to remain higher than inlet pressure. In response to this condition the control panel notifies the operator such as with a general system error message.

While the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

