---

title: Remote, non-contacting personnel bio-identification using microwave radiation
abstract: A system to remotely identify a person by utilizing a microwave cardiogram, where some embodiments segment a signal representing cardiac beats into segments, extract features from the segments, and perform pattern identification of the segments and features with a pre-existing data set. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07889053&OS=07889053&RS=07889053
owner: California Institute of Technology
number: 07889053
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070405
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 789 458 filed Apr. 5 2006 which is herein incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 USC 202 in which the Contractor has elected to retain title.

Accurate identification of people is critical for law enforcement as well as for many security and fraud detection applications in the public and private sectors. Current methods employ high resolution optical and infrared cameras or scanners to image the face or read finger prints or iris patterns in the eye. These approaches work with reasonable accuracy but usually require direct or extremely close contact with the person to be identified for example by placing a hand on the scanner plate to record fingerprints or placing one s head against a positioning frame to allow a lens to produce a high resolution image of the eye.

Identification based on fingerprints has been widely deployed in recent years for security and immigration applications and is even being used in some computer systems for user login identification. However such systems are sensitive to the presence of dirt on the fingers often require reapplication of the finger and are sensitive to variants such as the pressure of the finger during the fingerprint acquisition process. Fingerprint identification may also be fooled by using artificially gummy fingers. Facial recognition methods on the other hand are not necessarily limited to very close range but the subject must be facing in the direction of a camera since a clear well lit image is required. Thus it is relatively easy to evade such systems by wearing a disguise a face mask or tilting the head down to avoid providing a clear image of the face. Visual face recognition methods of course depend critically on the quality of the image which renders such systems sensitive to range and illumination.

In one embodiment the invention relates to a system for biometrically identifying a person using microwave radiation the system including at least one processor configured to segment a microwave cardiac signal including cardiac beats into segments to extract features from the segments and to perform pattern identification of the segments and features with a pre existing data set where the microwave cardiac signal is obtained from reflected microwave radiation including an electrocardiographic waveform and an impedance cardiographic waveform. In another embodiment the invention relates to a method for biometrically identifying a person using microwave radiation the method including segmenting a microwave cardiac signal including cardiac beats into individual segments where the microwave cardiac signal is obtained from reflected microwave radiation including an electrocardiographic waveform and an impedance cardiographic waveform extracting features from the segments and performing pattern identification of the features in the individual segments with a pre existing data set.

In the description that follows the scope of the term some embodiments is not to be so limited as to mean more than one embodiment but rather the scope may include one embodiment more than one embodiment or perhaps all embodiments.

In the past few years it has been demonstrated that an electrocardiographic ECG waveform may be used to identify a person with an accuracy of about 95 . This is significantly better than the typical accuracy of a fingerprint. However an ECG usually requires at least 2 electrodes attached to the person which has limited its usefulness in real world applications. A recently developed microwave cardiogram disclosed in a published US patent application publication number 20040123667 may be employed to provide a unique bio signature for a person. This approach uses a specially designed microwave transceiver to form a narrow beam directed at the person of interest. The reflected microwave signal contains both the electrocardiographic waveform and the impedance cardiographic ICG waveform of a person. This technique works over large distances up to tens of meters and it is very difficult to alter or disguise the ECG and ICG waveforms because they are a fundamental aspect of a person s physiology. The microwave signal may penetrate barriers such as walls and doors allowing for new capabilities in human identification.

Embodiments use a microwave cardiogram as a bio signature for an individual. The microwave cardiogram may be measured over distances of several meters and through barriers such as doors and walls using a microwave signal to provide a non contacting remote sensing method to accurately identify specific individuals.

Embodiments process in real time the reflected microwave signal which contains the cardiac signature of the person using digital signal processing techniques. Embodiments use machine learning template methods to segment out each cardiac beat and then statistically compare a few beats of the microwave cardiogram to a pre existing data set in order to identify the individual.

A remote microwave cardiogram human identification system according to some embodiments may be comprised of two primary subsystems an active microwave system to remotely measure the cardiac related waveforms of an individual and a back end signal processing system to determine the identity of an individual based on his or her microwave reflection signal. As discussed above the measurement of the microwave cardiogram is the subject matter of a published patent application publication number 20040123667 . An example of a remote cardiogram human identification system according to an embodiment may be described as follows. An RF Radio Frequency oscillator generates a microwave signal that is coupled to a high directivity antenna by a circulator. This antenna forms a narrow beam directed at the person to be identified. A fraction of the incident signal is reflected back from the person and picked up by the same antenna. The received signal is amplified bandpass filtered and the signal power level is measured with a conventional detector. This signal power waveform is supplied to a back end signal processing system for real time analysis. The microwave power levels used are typically less than 1 milliwatt and are expected to be hundreds to thousands of times lower than the maximum permissible dose level considered safe by the IEEE Standards Committee on RF Exposure.

The amplitude of the reflected signal will have a relatively large DC Direct Current or static component due to the static or basal impedance of the illuminated tissue and a small unique time varying component due the time dependent impedance of the tissue. The microwave beam penetrates several millimeters of skin tissue only and thus is affected primarily by changes in the impedance of the dermis which contains blood vessels as well as a significant amount of extracellular fluid in the supporting matrix There are at least two contributions to the total time dependent impedance of interest the volume of blood present in the tissue and the concentration of ions Na CI and others in the extracellular fluid. Both of these contributions are periodic in time and are driven by the mechanical and electrical action of the heart. These cardiac related time dependent changes are relatively very small about 0.5 or less of the basal impedance. However these changes in the volume of blood and extracellular ion concentration uniquely modulate the amplitude of the reflected microwave signal to provide simultaneously the electrocardiographic waveform and impedance cardiographic waveform of the individual. This composite waveform may be referred to as the microwave cardiogram.

Embodiments perform signal processing to process the microwave cardiogram signals and to determine the identity of the individual. The identification process may comprise two phases sub processes an offline phase where a library of microwave cardiograms of known individuals are built up and an on line phase where the microwave cardiogram from an unknown individual is preprocessed segmented and matched against the library of known individuals constructed in the off line phase.

For some embodiments the signal processing may include but is not limited to a preprocessing noise removal step a segmentation procedure to segment out each beat in the cardiac signal a feature extraction procedure to derive salient features from each beat and a pattern identification procedure using the segmented signals and the salient features. A flow diagram outlining the signal processing is illustrated in . For some embodiments the boxes in may represent one or more software controlled processes running on a computer system special purpose or programmable modules or perhaps combinations thereof.

Various modifications may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention as claimed below.

