---

title: Reducing runway requirement for aircraft
abstract: Runway length requirement for take-off and landing of an aircraft is reduced by taking advantage of dynamic lift overshoot, and in some cases, dynamic stall. In take-off and landing, the angle of attack is rapidly increased so that the lift coefficient exceeds the maximum predicted by the steady flow lift curve. By increasing the angle of attack at an appropriate rate, the increased lift coefficient can be maintained, without loss of control, until the aircraft touches down in the case of a landing, or until the aircraft can begin a normal climb, in the case of take-off. A low aspect ratio lifting body is preferred because of its more gradual stall behavior, and the potential to use dynamic stall for further deceleration before touchdown. Vortex fences can be oscillated to delay the onset of stall, and, in cruise, to energize the boundary-layer and reduce drag and/or control roll and/or yaw.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07997528&OS=07997528&RS=07997528
owner: Aereon Corporation
number: 07997528
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070116
---
This application claims priority on the basis of provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 759 947 filed Jan. 18 2006.

This invention was made with Government support and the Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to aircraft and more particularly to methods for reducing the runway length requirement for take off and landing of an aircraft. The invention has utility particularly in remotely controlled or autonomously operated unmanned aircraft intended for launch from and recovery on a maritime vessel. However the method according to the invention can be utilized both in manned aircraft and in land based aircraft.

In take off of a conventional aircraft the aircraft accelerates along a runway until it reaches take off speed. Then by operation of control surfaces usually elevators the angle of attack of the principal airfoil surface usually the wings is increased in order to increase lift to a value exceeding the aircraft s weight. The attitude typically is maintained during climb whereupon the angle of attack is typically decreased for level flight at a cruising altitude.

In landing with the engine throttled back so that the aircraft descends as it approaches the runway the angle of attack is increased slightly to increase lift so that the aircraft can touch down gently and brake to a stop.

In both cases the angle of attack of the aircraft is carefully limited in order to avoid stall which would result in loss of control and generally the aircraft is controlled so that the lift coefficient is limited to a fraction of the maximum lift coefficient based on the lift curve which characterizes the airfoil surface in steady flow taking into account trim flap settings etc. Typically the lift coefficient is limited to about 80 of the maximum lift coefficient.

In conventional take off and landing the ground roll during take off is relatively long the ground roll following touchdown is also relatively long. These long ground roll distances require long runways and have led to the development of various techniques for short take off and landing STOL including high lift devices rocket boosters tilting engines etc.

An object of this invention is to achieve short take off and landing performance in an aircraft without the need for expensive attachments and modifications. The invention takes advantage of a phenomenon known as dynamic lift overshoot in which as the angle of attack of an airfoil is continuously increased the lift coefficient Ccan for a short time exceed C the peak value of the lift curve for the airfoil under steady flow conditions. Dynamic lift overshoot can be predicted and controlled in such a way as to produce increased lift while avoiding stall and departure. Thus controlled use of dynamic lift overshoot can significantly reduce take off and landing speeds and shorten runway length requirements.

Briefly in accordance with the invention the runway length requirement for the take off or landing of an aircraft can be reduced by increasing the lift coefficient of the aircraft to a level exceeding the steady flow stall value while the aircraft is taking off or landing whereby the lift coefficient of the aircraft exceeds the maximum lift coefficient predicted by the steady flow lift curve for the aircraft.

The step of increasing the lift coefficient of the aircraft to a level exceeding the steady flow stall value can be carried out either by increasing the angle of attack of the wings increasing the flap angle or both.

The time rate of change of the increase in the angle of attack and or the flap angle is controlled to achieve the desired takeoff or landing distance. Normally this can be done by using moderate rates of change of angle of attack and or flap angle. Most control systems can achieve the desired rates without the need for control effector changes. The upper limit to dot over the rate of change of angle of attack is set only by what the aircraft s controls can achieve. At maximum elevator deflection the resulting moment acts to accelerate . The maximum rate in almost any aircraft will be sufficient to achieve lift overshoot.

During dynamic lift overshoot when the lift coefficient of the aircraft closely approaches the maximum vortex energizers may be activated to increase the overshoot and thus delay the onset of stall.

Preferably the onset of stall is sensed automatically by means of sensors and one or the other of two actions occurs. The lift coefficient of the aircraft may be decreased from a level too close to the dynamic stall value e.g. 90 of C to a level well below the dynamic stall value e.g. 80 of the dynamic stall value of C in response to a signal provided by the sensors. Alternatively the lift overshoot can be increased by activating the vortex energizing system in response to the signal provided by the sensors. Both approaches are responsive to both the attitude and accelerations of the aircraft. The lift coefficient of the aircraft can be decreased by actuation of a control surface or the vortex energizer can be activated in response to a signal provided by the sensors and preferably with the aid of an on board computer responsive to the sensors.

In a preferred embodiment the aircraft is a lifting body having a delta shaped planform a narrow nose and a wide trailing edge substantially the entire body of the aircraft serving as an airfoil.

More specifically in the case of take off the runway length requirement is reduced by the steps of generating lift by causing the aircraft to accelerate to take off speed while maintaining the lift coefficient at a level below the steady flow stall value thereafter increasing the lift coefficient to a level exceeding the steady flow stall value causing the aircraft to climb while the lift exceeds the weight and during the climb decreasing the lift coefficient to a level below the steady flow stall value before loss of control occurs. Similarly in the case of landing the runway length requirement is reduced by the steps of maintaining the lift coefficient of the aircraft at a level below the steady flow stall value during approach to landing thereafter increasing the lift coefficient to a level exceeding the steady flow stall value then touching wheels down on the runway and either shortly before simultaneously with or shortly after touchdown decreasing the lift coefficient to a level below the steady flow stall value. Decreasing the attitude of the aircraft just before touchdown is preferable in the case of conventional landing gear.

Other objects details and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description when read in conjunction with the drawings.

As stated previously the invention takes advantage of dynamic lift overshoot where the lift coefficient Cof the aircraft exceed the peak value C of the lift curve for steady flow.

A theory explaining how flowfield acceleration and other contributors to lift affect lift overshoot focuses on normal force rather than lift since separation and stall are suppressed during the pitch up before C the peak value of the normal force coefficient is reached and the normal force can increase even at very large angles of attack. The theory is based on the assumption that rate of change of normal force is the key parameter in determining stall delay.

Dynamic lift behavior is different for a high aspect ratio aircraft than for an aircraft having a low aspect ratio as seen in . There the normal force coefficients Care plotted against angle of attack for identical values of k the non dimensional rate of change of angle of attack. The solid lines represent steady flow where k 0. The broken lines show dynamic lift overshoots where k 0.045 as examples. As shown in for a high aspect ratio airfoil the curve for Cunder steady flow conditions rises steeply with a sharp peak at a value for that example of approximately 1.7 for Cat a 16 angle of attack. With overshoot Cfor the high aspect ratio airfoil can reach approximately 3.3 at an attack angle of about 33 . For the low aspect ratio airfoil the curve for Cunder steady flow conditions rises more gradually with a peak value of approximately 1.0 for Cat a 30 angle of attack. With overshoot however Cfor the low aspect ratio airfoil can reach approximately 1.6 at an attack angle of about 44 .

In accordance with the invention landing and take off maneuvers are pre planned and controlled normally in order to take advantage of lift overshoot while avoiding dynamic stall. However for low aspect ratio aircraft configurations that are stable and controllable during dynamic stall in accordance with the invention landing and take off maneuvers may be pre planned and controlled in order to take advantage of lift overshoot and to include benefits of dynamic stall.

There are two stall types that describe the potential consequences of a dynamic stall and they are related to the characteristics observed in quasi steady flow.

For high aspect ratio unswept wings stall occurs across the span abruptly usually when the spanwise vortex bubble grows to a size that cannot be maintained. Often in a manner similar to what is observed in retreating blade stall in a helicopter rotor the spanwise vortex bubble is convected downstream at a fraction of the free stream speed with a resultant nose down pitching moment on the aircraft. The dynamic lift induced vortex bubble is washed off the wing within a few typically three chordlengths of travel resulting in a sudden stall. When this happens asymmetrically a violent departure from controlled symmetrical flight can occur.

For low aspect ratio or highly swept wings the vortex system develops primarily chordwise rather than spanwise. The stall mechanism is related primarily to vortex bursting which correlates to excessive swirl near the chordwise vortex core. When stall is initiated because the rate at which vorticity is added is not sufficient to dominate viscous effects and the flow field begins to relax toward a stalled steady flow condition the aircraft can travel many chordlengths as many as forty or more before vortex bursting has moved forward enough to affect aircraft loads. Bursting is usually followed by a nose up pitching moment.

Hybrid combinations with mixed dynamic stall behavior can be found between these two extremes. For example where a relatively straight high aspect ratio wing and a highly swept strake configuration are found together the steady flow stall behavior is reached after a dynamic lift overshoot and dynamic stall through a complex interaction between the two stall types.

The aircraft shown in is an example of an aircraft suitable for take off and landing by taking advantage of dynamic lift overshoot as well as dynamic stall. The aircraft is a low aspect ratio lifting body aircraft of the type described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 149 688 4 896 160 and 5 034 751 the disclosures of which are here incorporated by reference. Briefly a lifting body aircraft is an aircraft having a substantially continuous airfoil surface from one end of its span to the other and lacking a well defined transition between wing and fuselage. Lifting bodies are characterized by good longitudinal static stability possess favorable stall characteristics and are capable of relatively high cruising speeds and relatively low landing speeds.

The aircraft shown in is characterized by a substantially triangular or delta shaped planform a nose at one corner of the triangle and a trailing edge opposite the nose and extending between a pair of lateral extremities and each at one of the remaining corners of the triangle. The sides and of the triangle which meet at the nose form portions of the leading edge and vertical longitudinal sections of the lifting body are thick airfoil sections which may be either cambered as in or uncambered. The hull of the lifting body is preferably substantially symmetrical about a central vertical plane extending from its nose to a mid point on the trailing edge . The transverse cross sections throughout substantially all of the length of the lifting body are substantially elliptical on either side of the central vertical plane. From the nose to the point of maximum vertical dimension in the central vertical plane the elliptical cross sections become progressively higher and progressively wider with width increasing more rapidly than height. From the point of maximum vertical dimension toward the trailing edge however the elliptical cross sections continue to increase progressively in width but decrease progressively in height. Various deviations from the above described relationships may exist in a lifting body for example with respect to the configuration of the nose and lateral extremities.

Propulsion may be achieved by any of various means. In this case as in U.S. Pat. No. 4 149 688 engines and with propellers and are supported on a centrally located vertical stabilizer . Outboard control surfaces and are provided at both ends of the trailing edge and split flaps and are built into the trailing edge.

Vortex fences and are provided on both sides of the leading edge. Although they have the appearance of conventional spoilers the vortex fences can be deployed by rotating them upward and forward about hinge lines and on their forward edges from a flush position to a fully opened position typically at an angle of about 135 degrees relative to the chordplane. At any deployed position energizers not shown may be used to oscillate the vortex fences about their hinge lines at small amplitudes e.g. 5 degrees at frequencies such that they place up to about four wavelengths of energized flow over the surface of the lifting body. Preferably the two vortex fences can be deployed and oscillated independently of each other in order to affect the flow field on one side of the lifting body separately from the flow field on the other side.

The vortex fences preserve flow symmetry in steady flow with sideslip generate nose up pitching moments and by the operation of the energizers to oscillate the vortex fences delay the onset of stall by adding vorticity to strengthen the vortex system on one or both sides of the lifting body. Small deflections of the fences that may be coupled with operation of the energizers can be used to energize the upper surface boundary layer to delay large scale separation and during cruise flight to decrease aircraft drag or to achieve asymmetric lift or drag for roll or yaw control.

As shown in sensors are provided on the aircraft to provide information to an on board computer concerning aircraft attitude acceleration angle of attack sideslip angle and deflections of flaps control surfaces and the vortex fences. From the information provided by the sensors the computer derives an estimate of the normal force coefficient acting on the lifting body during flight. When utilizing dynamic lift overshoot during landing or taking off the estimate of the normal force coefficient is compared with the estimated and planned values of C. Control surfaces are operated to increase the angle of attack at a rate such that the planned dynamic lift overshoot is achieved. If the estimated normal force coefficient reaches about 90 of the estimated value of C the vortex fence energizers may be actuated to increase the margin of safety and delay stall. For low aspect ratio configurations when use of dynamic stall is intended the vortex energizers may be used for additional control to augment normal control effectors during dynamic stall.

A key goal for a given aircraft configuration is to predict the magnitude of the dynamic lift and stall angle of attack overshoots and if use of dynamic stall is planned to predict its effect before touchdown.

This starts by having the best available data on the quasi steady flow lift and drag characteristics up to and beyond the stall angle of attack. It is helpful to resolve the lift and drag data Cand C into normal and axial force components Cand C since the dynamic lift effects relate most directly to normal force and circulation changes. Wind tunnel or flight test data for conventional slow rates of change of angle of attack e.g. from wind up turns may be used as a foundation for the database. The database should include the individual effects of control surface and high lift device deflections. Key non linear effects such as loss of control angle of attack limits and stall must be well represented.

A next step is to use the database to predict the values of Cand Cand Vfor a conventional landing configuration with conventional settings for the flaps and other high lift devices. Then approach and touchdown speeds are determined. For example the approach and touchdown speeds can be 1.2 and 1.1 times V respectively for military aircraft or 1.3 and 1.15 times Vfor commercial aircraft. Corresponding lift coefficients and angles of attack should also be determined. Landing ground roll may then be calculated.

If landing ground roll is constrained to a smaller value than the calculated landing ground roll the smaller value may be achieved by the use of dynamic lift. First the touchdown speed that will achieve the required ground roll is calculated. Then the associated touchdown value of C i.e. C is calculated and the new required Cis determined. For example C 1.1 . Cfor military aircraft. This becomes the dynamic lift target . From the formula it follows that the velocity at touchdown is 1.1 times the stall velocity.

Next the required dynamic normal force overshoot required to achieve the lift overshoot must be defined. The overshoot in the normal force coefficient Cis C which is equal to C C. The dynamic lift overshoot Cis similarly defined. A first estimate of overshoot may be found from C Ccos with being the angle of attack taken from the quasi steady Cvs curve at C. Next the combinations of rates of change of and other contributors to lift overshoot that result in the desired CNmax should be investigated using the relationship 

Iteration of the previous two steps until convergence will result in a plan to use angle of attack rate of change and control effector rates of change to overshoot Cand Cand achieve a reduced ground roll.

For any given aircraft configuration initial attempts to use dynamic lift overshoot should be carried out in flight tests at altitude. The high dot over time rate of change of angle of attack envelope should be expanded carefully and explored fully. In that way as with conventional flight testing a more exact determination can be made of the full scale details of dynamic lift overshoot for a given configuration. Furthermore the feasibility of using initial phases of dynamic stall can be explored. If use of dynamic stall is planned the steps described in the preceding five paragraphs must be modified by using a database expanded to include dynamic stall data from flight tests at altitude.

A factor of safety is utilized just as in the case of steady flow. A factor of safety may be built into the landing methodology in two ways when dynamic stall is not planned to be used. Using military criteria each landing is planned so that the average value of Cis about 69 of Cwhile on the approach to landing. The touchdown values of Cand Cshould be about 83 of the predicted Cand Cvalues. The average value of Cis an average for both wings or in the case of a lifting body both sides . Differences in Cand Cfor the wings come about as a result of sideslip and or yaw rates and roll rates and differential control surface deflections. Therefore the values of Cand Care estimated independently for the two wings. If the margin for one wing becomes small i.e. the value of Capproached 90 of C the appropriate vortex energizer is used to increase Cfor that wing thus raising the margin.

The unsteady aerodynamic effects that result in delay of stall and provide dynamic lift overshoot also suppress loss of control aerodynamic forces and moments associated with asymmetric separations. Flight test experiments have shown that when dynamic stall was experienced there is a significant time delay associated with flowfield relaxation to a steady state condition. An aircraft can travel many chordlengths without any loss of control.

To refine the landing maneuver for a given aircraft a good six degree of freedom simulation should be used to shape the angle of attack and trajectory time history to achieve touchdown at a planned point with planned airspeed and angle of attack rates. Attitude and rate feedback control throttle control and coupling with ILS MLS or other landing systems can help achieve the planned trajectory with desired control effector flap and angle of attack rates of change. GPS guidance and a ground proximity sensor will be needed for autonomous dynamic lift landing operations.

During the flare maneuver associated with landing it is important to appreciate the utility of high angle of attack values and the associated drag as well as lift overshoots. Increased aircraft drag is put to work to decelerate the aircraft even after the flight path has been curved from an approach angle to near level. Aerodynamic braking is thus a key feature of landings utilizing dynamic lift overshoot. With the proper use of angle of attack time rate of change of angle of attack and throttle control reliable repeatable and predictable short landings can be achieved routinely.

Take off maneuvers using dynamic lift require feedback control and trajectory shaping similar to landing maneuvers but with somewhat less concern over ground proximity. Therefore less precision is required in following a prescribed trajectory. Takeoff thrust to weight ratio is the key performance parameter. With low thrust to weight values the rapid drag buildup after rotation may force takeoff velocities hence ground rolls to high values near those for conventional takeoff. The most important consideration unique to take off involves lowering the lift coefficient in the climbout immediately after take off to a value below steady flow stall in order to prevent departure from controlled flight and to decrease drag so that the aircraft can accelerate to normal climb speed. Trajectory shaping to refine this maneuver can be done readily in simulation. During flight values of C C Cand Care estimated and stall margins are maintained as described above in the landing example. Conventional inertial and altitude sensors suffice for takeoff maneuvers. However the use of the global positioning system GPS is also preferred.

The invention is particularly useful in reducing the landing and take off distances for ship based unmanned aircraft.

In the aircraft is shown taking off from ship . Here after a relatively short roll beginning at stage a rapid upward pitch is initiated at stage . The angle of attack exceeds the steady flow stall value at a point between stages and and the lift coefficient Cexceeds the steady flow maximum causing the aircraft to take off. The angle of attack exceeds the stall value through stage after which the controls are operated to cause the aircraft to level off and to accelerate to climb speed at stage

A comparison of will demonstrate the differences between a conventional landing and a landing utilizing dynamic lift overshoot. In aircraft is shown approaching a landing strip . Just before touchdown the aircraft is controlled so that it flares gently and the flare is maintained until touchdown at point . Following touchdown the aircraft brakes to a stop at point . Just before and at touchdown the angle between the aerodynamic force and lift vectors and is relatively small and the drag and thrust vectors and are nearly aligned and of comparable magnitude although in opposite directions. At touchdown the aircraft has a velocity represented by vector . In contrast in shortly before touchdown the aircraft is caused to pitch up rapidly. Here the magnitude of the drag represented by vector is significantly larger than the magnitude of the drag vector in while the lift represented by vector is comparable to lift vector in . The result is that the velocity of aircraft at touchdown represented by vector is much smaller than the velocity in and the roll distance between touchdown at point and stop at point is substantially less than the roll distance in .

Reduced takeoff and landing distances can enable fixed wing operations from small ships and airstrips with the potential to eliminate launching or arresting devices. When launching or arresting devices are used the reduced takeoff speed will require less energy addition and the reduced landing speed will greatly reduce the workload on those devices and thus significantly extend their life and reduce maintenance costs.

Low aspect ratio aircraft such as the lifting body are especially suitable for take off and landing maneuvers in accordance with the invention because of their more gradual stall behavior and the potential to use dynamic stall for further deceleration before touchdown. However the invention is applicable to winged aircraft including aircraft having a relatively high aspect ratio. Various modifications can be made to the aircraft described. For example because a relatively rapid change in angle of attack is required in order to take advantage of dynamic lift overshoot various control surfaces including control surfaces located on the forward part of the aircraft can be used. Propellers and or jet engines can be used for propulsion and thrust vectoring can be utilized.

Still other modifications may be made to the apparatus and method described above without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

