---

title: System and method for automated electronic switching of customer selected financial transactions for a customer banking account
abstract: The present disclosure provides a relatively automated system and method for a customer to change to a new service provider of a financial product, such as banking services. In general, the customer may provide initial data to a new second provider that the second provider may use to automatically and electronically access data about the customer from a prior first provider data source, such as an electronic database of the first provider. The customer data may include a customer credential provided to the second provider to retrieve automated financial transactions from the first provider's Web site on behalf of and with support of the customer. Automated financial transactions include direct deposits, automatic withdrawals, and online payment of bills. The second provider may use the data to at least partially recreate the automated financial transactions for the customer in an account with the second provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924288&OS=08924288&RS=08924288
owner: United Services Automobile Association (USAA)
number: 08924288
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070724
---
This application is related in subject matter to and incorporates herein by reference in its entirety each of the following U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 782 347 entitled System And Method For Automated Electronic Switching Of Customer Selected Financial Transactions For A Customer Banking Account filed on Jul. 24 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 782 362 entitled System And Method For Automated Electronic Switching Of Customer Selected Financial Transactions For A Customer Banking Account also filed on Jul. 24 2007.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The disclosure relates to a method and system for providing financial products to a customer and more specifically to providing automated electronic switching of customer selected financial transactions for a customer banking account from a first provider to a second provider with minimal customer input.

Customers are typically reluctant to switch service providers because of the inconvenience and effort to transfer data without particularly large incentives such as significant savings. Bank and other financial institutions may offer quality services at competitive rates but often find that customers are still reluctant to switch to a new service provider. When moving a banking relationship the customer generally is especially concerned about moving automated financial transactions. These automated financial transactions generally fall into three categories direct deposits automatic withdrawals and electronic payment of bills. Often the electronic bill payments are conducted through online Web sites tone activated systems such as through a telephone or other electronic based payment system broadly referenced herein as Web bill pay. For online payments the customer may have two categories namely those that are pre assigned to be paid a specific amount on a specific day and those to which the payee information is already entered and the customer need simply enter the particular amount and instruct payment where the remaining process is automated. If the customer is financially motivated to switch accounts to another financial provider the effort involved in switching some or all of the above information to the new provider may be daunting. In at least some cases a customer is simply resigned to maintaining the existing banking relationship even though financially it may be to the customer s benefit to move the account.

In the past the best switching tools in the industry appear to have been a system for generation of online forms for customers to print sign and mail in order to switch direct deposits automatic withdrawals and even close accounts. No solution for switching online bill payment services was found to exist in practice. Some providers provided online switch kits that pre filled some customer information or provided drop down menus that failed to switch over the customer data.

Thus there remains a need for an easier and more fully utilized switching system and method for automated electronic transactions of the customer to another financial service provider.

The present disclosure provides a relatively automated system and method for a customer to change to a new service provider of a financial product such as banking services. In general the customer may provide initial data to a new second provider that the second provider may use to automatically and electronically access data about the customer from a prior first provider information source such as an electronic database of the first provider. The customer data may include a customer credential provided to the second provider to retrieve automated financial data from the first provider s Web site on behalf of and with support of the customer. Automated financial data include direct deposits automatic withdrawals and online payment of bills. The second provider may use the data to at least partially recreate the automated financial data for the customer in an account with the second provider.

The disclosure provides a system for transferring financial data of a customer from a first provider to a second provider comprising at least one subsystem configured to locate a first provider having customer data for electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof for the customer at least one subsystem configured to access the customer data using a customer supplied credential at least one subsystem configured to electronically obtain the customer data on behalf of the customer using the customer supplied credential and at least one subsystem configured to automatically transfer at least some of the customer data from the first provider to the second provider to allow the second provider to provide the electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or the combination thereof for the customer.

The disclosure also provides a method of transferring financial data of a customer from a first provider to a second provider comprising locating a first provider having customer data for electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof for the customer accessing the customer data using a customer supplied credential electronically obtaining the customer data on behalf of the customer using the customer supplied credential and automatically transferring at least some of the customer data from the first provider to the second provider to allow the second provider to provide the electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or the combination thereof for the customer.

The disclosure further provides a computer readable medium comprising computer readable instructions for transferring financial data of a customer from a first provider to a second provider said computer readable instructions comprising instructions that locate a first provider having customer data for electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof for the customer access the customer data using a customer supplied credential electronically obtain the customer data on behalf of the customer using the customer supplied credential and automatically transfer at least some of the customer data from the first provider to the second provider to allow the second provider to provide the electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or the combination thereof for the customer.

The disclosure provides a system for transferring financial data of a customer to a financial provider comprising at least one subsystem configured to locate an electronic source of financial data of a customer for electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof at least one subsystem configured to electronically obtain the customer data on behalf of the customer and at least one subsystem configured to automatically transfer at least some of the customer data from the electronic source of financial data to an account with the financial provider on behalf of the customer to allow the financial provider to provide the electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof.

The disclosure also provides a method of transferring financial data of a customer to a financial provider comprising locating an electronic source of financial data of a customer for electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof electronically obtaining the customer data on behalf of the customer and automatically transferring at least some of the customer data from the electronic source of financial data to an account with the financial provider on behalf of the customer to allow the financial provider to provide the electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof.

The disclosure further provides a computer readable medium comprising computer readable instructions for transferring financial data of a customer to a financial provider said computer readable instructions comprising instructions that locate an electronic source of financial data of a customer for electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof electronically obtain the customer data on behalf of the customer and automatically transfer at least some of the customer data from the electronic source of financial data to an account with the financial provider on behalf of the customer to allow the financial provider to provide the electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof.

The disclosure provides a system for transferring financial data of a customer from a first provider to a second provider comprising at least one subsystem configured to electronically access a second provider interface at least one subsystem configured to select a first provider from the second provider interface at least one subsystem configured to provide a customer credential to the second provider at least one subsystem configured to allow the second provider to access financial data of the customer available from the first provider regarding electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof and at least one subsystem configured to allow the second provider to automatically transfer at least some of the customer data from the first provider to the second provider to allow the second provider to provide electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof.

The disclosure also provides a method of transferring financial data of a customer from a first provider to a second provider comprising electronically accessing a second provider interface selecting a first provider from the second provider interface providing a customer credential to the second provider allowing the second provider to access financial data of the customer available from the first provider regarding electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof and allowing the second provider to automatically transfer at least some of the customer data from the first provider to the second provider to allow the second provider to provide electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof.

The disclosure further provides a computer readable medium comprising computer readable instructions for transferring financial data of a customer from a first provider to a second provider said computer readable instructions comprising instructions that electronically access a second provider interface select a first provider from the second provider interface provide a customer credential to the second provider allow the second provider to access financial data of the customer available from the first provider regarding electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof and allow the second provider to automatically transfer at least some of the customer data from the first provider to the second provider to allow the second provider to provide electronic bill payment services direct deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof.

One or more illustrative embodiments of the concepts disclosed herein are presented below. Not all features of an actual implementation are described or shown in this application for the sake of clarity. It is understood that the development of an actual embodiment numerous implementation specific decisions must be made to achieve the developer s goals such as compliance with system related business related and other constraints which vary by implementation and from time to time. While a developer s efforts might be complex and time consuming such efforts would be nevertheless a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having benefit of this disclosure.

Generally at least one embodiment of the present disclosure provides for identifying an external account of a first provider of financial products used by the customer automatically setting up bill payment transactions and other financial information previously used by the customer from the first provider account to the second financial provider to which the customer wishes to transfer the information setting up automatic deposits setting up automatic withdrawals and transferring funds to the account of the second provider. The term first provider in the present disclosure is used to indicate an earlier provider of a financial product such as a bank account from which the customer seeks to transfer customer information and the term second provider is used to indicate the provider of a financial product to which the customer wishes to transfer the customer information. The disclosure further provides for assistance in closing the external account of the first provider if the customer so chooses. In at least one embodiment the disclosure teaches acquiring banking institutions account information and the like of various financial providers presenting a short list of possible accounts or account numbers from which the customer may select obtaining the customer s name and password for the particular first provider and or account acquiring the external account balance and automated financial transactions information on behalf of the customer and automatically transferring the customer data to an account of the customer with a second provider. Such data may be acquired through using modified aggregator services of commercial providers. Further in automatically setting up the automated financial transactions the disclosure provides for identifying the current bill payment schedule retrieving bank transaction data using the aggregated service with any known customer data already known to the second provider retrieving billers addresses from aggregator service databases second provider database or other databases as may be publicly available presenting a short list of possible payees addresses and payment dates for the customer s selection and or adjustment and automatically populating the bill payment schedule on the second provider account for the customer based upon the customer s selection. In setting up automatic deposits the disclosure may provide for acquiring current employer information from a credit bureau or other source allowing the customer to verify the current deposit information and or set up new deposits as desired and offer to mail a change authorization with electronic signature or e mail a form such as in an Adobe PDF format for the customer to sign and mail to the party from whom the deposit is obtained. For setting up automatic withdrawals the disclosure may provide for sending notice to designated parties for automatic withdrawals to be directed to the account of the second provider. The procedure is similar to the procedure described above for automatically setting up the bill payment by retrieving the information presenting a list of payees and relevant information and automatically populating the database of the second provider account with the information as may be adjusted by the customer. Further the system may provide to offer to mail a change authorization with an electronic signature of the customer or e mail a form for the customer to sign and mail. For transferring funds and possible closing of the first provider account the disclosure provides for allowing the customer to electronically authorize a funds transfer from the first provider account and offering to mail a change authorization with an electronic signature of the customer or e mail a form to the customer to sign and mail themselves.

The first provider account s of the customer may be located by a number of search criteria including the name or address of the customer any routing number used by the customer to which the second provider may have knowledge a generalized list of first providers that are frequently used or in which potential customer data may be found and other parameters. Further the customer may manually enter the first provider and account information for the second provider to automatically transfer the data therein. If the customer is an existing customer of the second provider the second provider may have additional information regarding prior electronic funds transfer from a given account that may be suggested to the customer and offered as a selection. Once the account or accounts are selected by the customer to transfer information from the customer may provide log in credential s of the account or accounts to the second provider which the second provider may use to automatically access and retrieve information from the first provider account or accounts on behalf of the customer. Typically a transaction history is available with the first provider account such as a ninety 90 day period from which automatic withdrawals deposits and bill payment information may be gathered.

In more detail the customer will choose a first provider and or an account of a first provider which may be one or more providers . In this block the customer chooses which account the customer wishes to transfer the customer data from and possibly close out. The customer may be provided a list of accounts that have been previously used to do business with the second provider in the past if applicable. If the desired account is not present in the list the customer may select a bank from a provided list. If the account is not available to the user the user may do a keyword search to locate the account of the first provider. Using search functions or selecting a bank from a list may result in a need to select a specific account number. After providing details about the external account of the first provider the customer may select a corresponding account of the second provider or choose to open a new account of the second provider to transfer the customer data.

The customer may review personal data that the second provider may have on file if the customer is a present customer of the second provider. Alternatively the customer may provide personal data such as contact information tax information including social security number and other information as may be appropriate for the particular financial product to be provided by the second provider.

The customer may choose account features for the particular account of the second provider to which the customer is transferring the data. Such features may vary depending on the particular account and would generally include the option to select overdraft protection the offer of a debit card or ATM card and other features as may be desired or offered. The customer may also be requested to provide at least one customer credential such as a customer user name and password or other log in credentials for the account of the first provider if the customer wishes to automatically switch the big bill payments and move recurring deposits and withdrawals into the account of the customer with the second provider. After entering a customer credential the system and method may access the first provider to determine the customer s list of accounts and verify that these accounts still exist. If the customer selected only a first provider in an earlier block the system and method may continue automatically if only one account is found. If the system finds multiple accounts of the customer at the first provider then the customer may be directed to identify which accounts are to be accessed. Once the accounts are identified the system and method accesses the account or accounts of the customer with the first provider to retrieve data on bill payment automatic deposit and or automatic withdrawal details from the account of the first provider. This data is presented to the customer who selects which bill payees the customer wishes to set up at the second provider which automatic withdrawals to transfer to the account of the second provider or convert to bill payees and or which direct deposits the customer wishes to transfer to the second provider account.

Further the disclosure provides that the customer will be presented with one or more ways to fund the account such as with a minimum balance. Such ways include transferring a balance from the account of the first provider. Use of an aggregation service allows the second provider to pre fill one or more fields when transferring funds and display the account balance of the first provider.

The process may include requesting the customer to verify data provided including personal information and choices for the account and choices for the transfer of the data. The verification may include a confirmation process that confirms the choices made by the customer and provides a list of next blocks including the generation of letters for those portions of the transfer that cannot be fully automated. The letters may be generated electronically and provided to the customer to be printed out at the customer s printer and mailed or the letters may be sent electronically by the customer if appropriate.

The following figures illustrate various embodiments of the system in more detail. It includes specific exemplary blocks by which the various transfer of data may be made. However it is to be understood that various other embodiments may and are contemplated that generally would encompass the automatic transfer of at least a portion of customer data from a first provider to a second provider of automatic withdrawals automatic deposits bill payment information or a combination thereof with minimum customer input.

At some time the customer may fund the account in Block . The funding may occur from electronic transfer of funds for example from the account of the first provider through credit card or through other electronic media. In other cases the customer may prefer to fund the account through in person deposits via mail money orders cashier s checks or personal or business checks. Further the customer may already have funding in the account if the customer has an existing account with the second provider. In Block the customer may verify the data and the selections made. In Block the customer may be provided electronic delivery on terms and conditions and other data of which the second provider may be required to or wish to deliver to the customer. In Block the customer may confirm acceptance of the terms and conditions. Further the customer may review any further blocks as may be appropriate for the particular transaction. Such further blocks may include authorizing e mail letters or notices to employers and others from whom money is deposited into the customer s account notifying other entities of the redirection of automatic withdrawals closing the account of the first provider or other options as may be appropriate.

In accessing an electronic database in Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may access a Web site from which the second provider may offer financial products in Block . The customer may register or if already registered enter the Web site using a customer credential such as a customer identifier and or password. In Block the customer may select a banking tab that may include other tabs such as customer services and the like. In Block the customer may be further required to enter additional security identifiers such as four digit personal identification number PIN social security number and so forth. In Block the customer may select an option that initializes the transfer of the financial data and other customer data according to the disclosure herein.

In Block as shown in with further illustrated in the customer may choose an account from a first provider in Block . In Block the system may query whether the chosen first provider such as a banking facility is available and accessible electronically such as through a Web interface. If the facility is shown and available for selection then in Block the customer may point and select the type of account of the first provider account such as a checking savings or money market account. In Block the customer may also be offered a list of one or more first providers from which the customer account may be held. For example in Block such data may be obtained from a cash operations check data using financial transaction warehouse FTW data. Based upon such selections the customer may submit the data in Block to the second provider.

On the other hand if the banking facility is not readily available to the customer from the Web site of the second provider the customer may enter in the name of the first provider in Block . Further a customer credential such as an online user name in Block and password in Block may be manually keyed in or otherwise provided to the second provider. The data may be checked by the cash operations check data using FTW in Block . Once the data is provided the customer may select to submit this data to the second provider in Block .

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may elect to move funds to the existing second provider account or open a new account in Block . If the customer wishes to use an existing account in Block then the customer may access menus and other selection options to select the account type such as checking savings or money market in Block and submit the instructions to transfer funds in Block . If the customer wishes to use a new account in Block the customer may set up a new account. For example the customer may point and click to select an individual or joint account in Block . If the individual wishes to set up an individual account in Block the customer may make such selection and submit such choice in Blocks and . If a joint account is desired in Block the customer may also use for example a drop down menu to select a joint customer or link to add a customer to the personal profile in Block . If the customer is already an existing customer the customer may be provided a drop down menu in Block to select a particular joint customer and submit selection in Block . If the joint customer is not already a customer of the second provider then the first customer may link to add the joint customer in the personal profile of Block .

In Block shown in the flowchart is subdivided into Block A for primary account customer data and Block B for joint account customer data if applicable. Each section will be described herein. The customer may review the primary or joint account personal data in Block . A customer may validate customer data such as a primary account holder s data. The data may include date of birth social security number and contact information in Block . The system may request the customer to identify which mailing address is the physical address in Block with an affirmative answer provided in Block . If the account is a joint account then the customer may validate the joint account customer data in Block in a similar manner. The system may query whether the mailing address of the joint account customer data is the physical address in Block . If the answer is yes the customer may point and click to select affirmative in Block .

The primary account customer may provide customer data as may be appropriate for the particular financial product to be provided. For illustrative purposes the Block has been subdivided into Blocks A B in . If the mailing address is not the customer s physical address in Block then in Block the customer may be asked to point and select a negative reply button and provide the physical address such as street address city and zip code in Block . The customer may further be asked to indicate whether the address is a forwarding address the state or U.S. territory province county or other geographical details. The data may further be obtained in some instances from an aggregated source accessing certain databases including financial databases. The customer may further be asked other data that may be pertinent to the particular financial product including citizenship in Block . If the answer is affirmative the customer may indicate such in Block . If the answer is negative in Block the customer may be requested to enter a type of government identification in Block . Such identification may be used for meeting requirements for taxation and so forth for the customer. The particular customer identification number relevant to the type of government identification may be entered in Block with a particular country of issuance in Block and an expiration date in Block . Such data may again be confirmed by various public databases or databases for hire in Block to the extent such data is available.

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the joint account customer data may be reviewed entered or a combination thereof. The Block is subdivided into Block A B in . As has been described above for the primary account customer in Block a similar technique may be provided in Block . For example the system may query if the mailing address for the member is the joint account customer s physical address in Block . If the answer is negative the customer may be asked to indicate the negative in Block and provide such data in Block . Further the customer may provide the customer s country or state of residence in Block . The data may be confirmed in Block . Further the system may query whether the joint account customer is a citizen in Block . If the joint account customer is a citizen a customer may indicate such in Block . If the customer is not a citizen the customer may indicate such in Block and provide identification data in Blocks and . The data may be confirmed to the extent available in Block using commercial database data.

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may point and select to select various account features offered in Block . By way of example such account features may include a debit card ATM card or a combination thereof in Block to which electronic funds may be accessible in .

Further the customer may be offered overdraft protection in Block shown in . For example the customer may be offered free overdraft protection in Block . To make such a selection the customer may choose to select such an account for the overdraft in Block . Generally such overdraft protection is linked commercially with another account from which funds may be available or an arrangement with the service that may automatically provide a loan under certain terms and conditions. Such an account manager may be provided in Block .

In Block shown in the customer may elect to have statements delivered electronically in Block . Further the system through a deposit processing system may stop the paper process in Block . The system through a document management system may start the electronic process in Block .

In Block shown in and further illustrated in as Blocks A B the customer may elect to transfer automated bill payments for example using Web based online services. For example the customer may elect to automatically switch financial transactions using Web access to the account with the second provider. Such financial transactions include bill payments recurring deposits withdrawals or a combination thereof in Block . In Block the customer may review the account data with the second provider that has either been set up as a new account or is a current account with a second provider. Such data may be pre filled in a data screen to show the customer for review. Optionally and for security reasons the second provider may request the customer to enter a customer credential such as an online user name in Block and if applicable a customer password in Block . If the customer has more than one account with the second provider a notice may be given to the customer in Block to alert the customer of the existence of multiple accounts. Such block may invite the customer to ensure that the customer is directing the activity from and to the proper account. Further the customer may be given a listing of accounts with the first provider from which customer wishes to transfer the customer data to the second provider in Block . If multiple accounts are available the customer may select such as by pointing and clicking to one or more accounts from a list provided in Block . If the data is sufficiently disbursed or otherwise suitable for aggregation an optional Block may be used to provide data to Block to list the accounts. From the selections in Block the data may be transferred to the second provider into a bill payment system in Block . If there are multiple bill payees a menu or other communication may be provided to the customer in Block to view which vendor payments are to be transferred to the electronic bill payment services with the second provider. Other data may also be provided such as associated vendor account number last payment and payment date. In some embodiments the automated bill payment provision may be provided at no charge in Block . For multiple accounts the customer may point and click or otherwise select additional accounts from the list to transfer customer data to the second provider in Block .

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may also transfer recurring withdrawals. For example the customer may elect to transfer recurring withdrawals in Block that may lead the customer to a menu or other representation in Block of the various vendors account numbers last payment and payment date to transfer to the second provider. The transfer may include transferring such data to the electronic bill payment services of the system or provide pre filled notification letters to the payees to switch to the account with the second provider. In some embodiments the service may be offered at no charge in Block . As appropriate the customer may be provided with automatic letters created from the available data for the customer to send either electronically to print and send by hardcopy communication to the payee or move automatically to the bill payment services of the second provider in Block .

In Block as shown in and further illustrated in the customer may also transfer recurring deposits. For example the customer may elect to transfer recurring deposits in Block to which the customer may be directed to menu or other communications which may illustrate the vendor account number last deposit and deposit date and or other data in Block . The customer may select multiple accounts from the list to create pre filled letters to move the deposits from the first provider to the second provider in Block . In some instances the menu may provide direct links to the entity depositing the funds so that the transfer may be done electronically without the necessity of forwarding letters.

In Block shown in and further illustrated in as Blocks A B and C the customer may need to fund the account at some point in the process. The funding is particularly relevant if the account is a new account with the second provider rather than an existing account that already has funding. For example the customer may point and click or otherwise select a funding method in Block . If the funding method is through a check such as an electronic check as shown in Block the customer may enter an account or view automatically generated data from another account such as the first provider account as shown in Block . Confirmation may be gained through third party software and services such as Intell A Check Corp. of Belleville N.J. and other service providers for check confirmation as shown in Block . The customer may be directed to enter or view an automatically generated routing number in Block based on the available customer data and to enter or view an automatically generated account number in Block . In some embodiments the customer may be required to enter a check number in Block . Generally the customer will be required to enter an amount or sustain a pre filled minimum amount to fund in Block .

If the funding method includes the transfer of funds the transfer may occur electronically in Block . The customer may view an account name account number and balance as shown in Block . Such data may be obtained or verified through FTW procedures in Block . The customer may be asked to enter a specific amount or to sustain a pre filled minimum amount or provide a minimum amount in Block .

If the funding method includes a credit card as shown in Block the customer may be asked to point and click or otherwise select from a list of credit cards for Visa Mastercard American Express Discover or other credit service agencies. Such list may include a pre filled list of the customer s identified or otherwise known credit cards and account numbers based on the customer s input data databases bill payment or other data accessible to the second provider. The data may be provided through search engines and other data as may be available to the second provider in Block . If the particular company desired by the customer is not available in a pre filled list of Block the customer may be given an option to select another card in Block . For example the customer may be provided a drop down menu to select credit cards of a generic nature in Block without account specific data. To provide such account specific data to the second provider the customer may enter a particular card account number in Block and other data such as expiration date and security codes in Block .

In Block as shown in and further illustrated in the customer may verify the data and selections. In the verification is divided into groups A and B. More specifically the customer may be asked to view the transfer data from the account of the first provider to the account of the second provider in Block . Such transfer data may include verifying account data of the customer such as the name physical and mailing address contact information and other data as appropriate in Block . If the account included a second account customer then similar data may be verified in Block . The various account features that have been selected such as the debit card overdraft protection and the overdraft protection account electronic statements and the like may be verified in Block . The customer may also verify the transfer of financial data to the customer account of the second provider in Block . Such financial data may include the payee any withdrawal amounts and dates automatic deposits or a combination thereof. In some cases the payee will require letters. The system may query whether the customer in Block wishes the system to prepare pre filled letters to a vendor or other party receiving or providing payments to the account. If the customer answers negatively a warning may be given in Block to the customer that the document is needed to process the particular requested transactions and give the customer another opportunity to select affirmatively. If the customer selects affirmative the system may send the letters to the printer in Block . If the customer still answers negatively then the customer may be provided a notice that they have not selected the generation of the letter to the appropriate parties and that to complete the appropriate blocks the customer will need to generate or otherwise notify such parties.

Returning to Block if the customer indicates affirmatively to prepare pre filled letters then the customer s letters are sent to a printer in Block . The customer may print sign and mail the selected documents to the particular parties listed in the content of the letter as shown in Block .

In Block as shown in and further illustrated in the system may also provide for the electronic delivery of the terms and conditions online while the customer is viewing the data. For example the customer may be provided electronically the terms and conditions and queried whether the customer agrees to the terms and conditions in Block . If the customer does not agree with the terms and conditions the customer may be provided a warning that the negative answer will cancel the customer s application to transfer this customer data and or set up the new account in Block . If the customer continues with the negative response the application for the transfer financial data and or new account as appropriate may be cancelled in Block .

In Block as shown in and further illustrated in the customer may confirm acceptance and review the next blocks required to complete the process. More specifically if the customer agrees to the terms and conditions in Block the customer may view the confirmation and the next blocks to finish the process in Block . For example the customer may go to a link and or account as may be appropriate for the bill payment services with the second provider in Block . The customer may reconfirm that such data is appropriate. In some embodiments the program may set up the recurring bill payment date to be future dated by thirty days to give the customer time to validate the payment status before closing the old account with the first provider. Further if direct deposit was selected the customer may be directed to confirm the direct deposit data with the employer or other source of funds and otherwise take blocks external to the online system described herein to finish the transfer in Block if appropriate. The customer may need to print and mail the pre filled letters to the prior first provider various payees and other parties as shown in Block . The customer may be reminded in Block of the need to have all outstanding checks payments withdrawals cleared before closing the account with the first provider if the customer so intends. The customer may be provided further data as to the expected delivery date of any of the features elected in the second provider account such as a debit card ATM card electronic statements and the like.

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may access electronic systems such as a Web site. More specifically the customer may log on to the Web site or otherwise access the second provider interactive interface in Block . The system may provide multiple access points for bill payment automatic withdrawals and or automatic deposits in Block . For example the access points may include a bank account s main page in Block a bank account real time Web advertisement providing a link in Block a checking summary page in Block a bill payment hub page in Block and a switch kit page in Block . In general these various access points may direct the customer to a service of the second provider that may facilitate the switching and transfer of financial data from the first provider to the second provider on behalf of the customer. The service may provide the ability to switch electronic bill payments automatic withdrawals and or automatic deposits in Block . If the customer chooses such service the system may direct the customer to a task entry Web page in Block .

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may choose the first provider account and review terms and conditions of the second provider to make the transfer and associated actions. More specifically the customer may select an external financial institution as the first provider from which the customer may switch to the second provider in Block . The customer may be asked to indicate whether the first provider is listed in Block . If the first provider is displayed in a list in Block the customer may select the first provider in Block . The first providers displayed in the list may be found from several places. For example in Block the databases managed by the financial transaction warehouse FTW may be accessed by the second provider to provide a possible list to the customer. Further the second provider may provide a list of the top frequency providers of such financial products such as banking accounts from its own databases in Block . Other sources of data may include Internet searches based upon the customer s locale and other identifying data previous transactions with a customer if the customer is a present customer of the second provider and other data. The customer may select the first provider if available from the list in Block .

If the first provider is not displayed in the list then the customer may be given a manual search option to enter the first provider name or other identifier in Block . Based upon the entered data one or more databases may be accessed in Block to provide data to connect to the first provider. Thus either from the list or from manual entries the first provider may be selected in Block .

The customer may then submit an authentication customer credential to the first provider to retrieve the appropriate financial data in Block . The system may be queried to determine whether the customer has more than one account with the first provider in Block . If the answer is negative then only the available account is returned as an option in Block for transferring the financial data of the customer. If multiple accounts are available as shown in Block then the customer may select one or more of the eligible accounts in Block .

After the first provider and the particular account are selected the customer may be referred to the terms and conditions screen in Block for review as provided by the second provider. The customer may be queried as to whether the customer agrees to the terms and conditions in Block . If the customer agrees to the terms and conditions in Block the system may submit a request to retrieve the external financial data of the first provider in the account of the customer in Block . If appropriate an aggregator may retrieve bill payment data automatic withdrawals automatic deposits or a combination thereof in Block . After retrieving the financial data for the bill payments deposits or withdrawals the system may be directed to present the data to the user in Block described below. If the customer does not agree to the terms and conditions in Block the program may exit the application and not switch the customer data from the first provider to the second provider in Block .

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may access the second provider account or set up a new account with the second provider. If the customer is not already logged onto the second provider system the system may require additional logon data and various other data for the customer to access an already existing account to begin complete or change the functions of the account for bill payments automatic deposit automatic withdrawal or some combination thereof. More specifically the customer may access a second provider Web site or other communication medium in Block . The customer may provide a user name and password and other customer credentials. The system may provide multiple access points to the second provider application services to switch the financial data from the first provider to the second provider in Block . As one exemplary access point the customers may select a checking account link in Block . The customer may be required to enter security data such as four digit PIN in Block . The customer may be provided a checking account summary page in Block and select or modify data for bill payments automatic deposits automatic withdrawals or a combination thereof through a service link. Further while a checking account is referenced herein it is to be understood that such account may include savings accounts money market accounts and other appropriate financial products.

Another access point from Block may include a checking account product feature page in Block as may be shown to various customers on the second provider Web site. Generally the customer may be browsing or otherwise reviewing various data. The customer may access the link and open an account in Block such as may be used as an enterprise deposit application EDA . From that page the customer may select the link to access the portion of the system that allows the transfer of financial data in Block .

Another access point may include a Web page advertisement such as from a main page of the second provider in Block . If the customer is an existing customer the customer may be required to enter a PIN or other credential that may lead the customer to access the customer data transferring functions of the system in Block . If the customer is not an existing customer in Block the system may direct the customer to open an account as described above in Block .

Yet another access point may lead an existing customer directly to a link to enter a PIN or other customer credential in Block . From such access the customer may be directed to a transfer link service page in Block and thence to the portion on the system that allows the customer to access the transferring functions of the system as described above in Block . From Block the customer may be directed to Block described above for further blocks in the transfer process.

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may be directed to the overall block of transferring the bill payment automatic withdrawal automatic deposit or other data as described above. More specifically the customer may be presented with the bill payment data in Block such as from Block relating to bill payee data. The system may query whether the appropriate bill payment data is available to switch from the first provider to the second provider in Block . If the data is not available then the customer may be presented with a list of payee data or other data that the second provider currently has in Block . Such data may be offered to the customer to deselect the particular payees or other parties that the customer does not want to switch in Block . The customer may continue through the switch process in Block whereupon a list of payee data required is displayed in Block . In Block the customer may be asked for input appropriate to supplement complete the required data for the remaining payees to allow the requested transfer of data from the customer. The customer may then be presented with a list of payees selected to switch over to the second provider in Block . If approved the request may be sent to continue the process in Block .

Returning to Block if the appropriate data is available to switch then a list of the payee data may be displayed in Block . By default all identified payees with sufficient data to enable the switch may be set to transfer from the first provider to the second provider in Block . However the customer may deselect payees that the customer does not wish to switch in Block . A revised list may be provided to the customer for review in Block . If approved the request is sent to continue the process in Block described above.

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may verify the data and selections. More specifically the customer may verify the list of payees for which the bill payments are to be switched from the first provider to the second provider in Block . The customer may be asked to confirm whether the bill payment data is correct in Block . If it is not correct the customer may be directed to making edits appropriate in Block . In some cases where perhaps edits are desired to the payee data the system may redirect the customer back through the Block to provide input and other listings of suitable payees. If the bill payment data is correct in Block the customer may be directed to Block to submit their request to continue through the process.

In Block shown in and further illustrated in the customer may be queried to confirm the acceptance make the transfers and review the next blocks. More specifically the customer may be asked to confirm the payee s data that is to be switched to the second provider in Block . A display may be provided to the customer in Block that the customer may review for the data that has been moved into the customer account with the second provider. The customer may also review any ACH credit and debit data from the first provider that may require further action to be taken by the customer in Block . In Block the customer may decide the next blocks to finalize the process. For example in Block the customer may access the second provider account and particularly the bill payment portion of the account to confirm the payment data in Block . Further the customer may link to the Web site of the first provider or even a third party Web sites to provide for further completion of the transfer of financial data accounts to be serviced payments to be directed and other features as may be appropriate in Block .

While the present disclosure has described at times the financial product as being a bill payment transfer of financial data it is to be understood and contemplated by the parties that such similar blocks may be made under the disclosure herein if the customer chose to include automatic withdrawals automatic deposits and other similar services that transfer assets between entities at the selection of the customer or upon an automatic basis.

The disclosure may integrate with an aggregator application commercially available. In general these aggregators are Java based programs from such suppliers as Yodlee Inc. of Redwood City Calif. or Intuit of Mountain View Calif. Such aggregator services generally are structured to gather data across a variety of sources using various protocols and combine the data. The data is made available to the particular application such as in this case the second provider. For example and without limitation the aggregator may be used to access direct billers credit cards banking accounts and loan data through a variety of protocols such as OSX ISX QIF XML YML HTML manual entries and customized entries. The data may be cleansed normalized and augmented as appropriate and then delivered to the application programming interface.

At a high level of discussion the interface to the aggregator service supports the following use cases specific to the disclosure provided herein. One case is the Logon case where each customer is uniquely logged on to the aggregated service which may retrieve data from the bank credit union or other first providers on their behalf. A next case a Find Bank case is used to allow the customer to have a means of locating their first providers by selecting from a list or by doing a keyword search. A Get List of Accounts case allows the customer to retrieve a list of accounts once the first provider has been identified. This block requires the customer to enter their bank Web site credentials to allow access to the customer data to be retrieved from the account of the first provider. The next cases are Get Direct Withdrawal Transactions Get Direct Deposit Transactions and Get Web bill Pay Payee Details that allow the customer to be able to view their direct withdrawals direct deposits and bill payment payee details after selecting a first provider and an account with the first provider.

The server may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT LCD monitor or other display types for displaying data to a user. An input device including for example alphanumeric and other keys voice activated systems screen touch systems and other input devices might be coupled to the bus for communicating data and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device might be a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction data and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display . The cursor control typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. X axis and a second axis e.g. Y axis that allow the device to specify positions in a plane.

The term computer readable instructions as used above refers to any instructions that may be performed by the processor and or other components. Similarly the term computer readable medium refers to any storage medium that may be used to store the computer readable instructions. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media may include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media may include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires of the bus . Transmission may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media may include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer may read.

Various forms of the computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to the processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer may load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the system may receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector coupled to the bus may receive the data carried in the infrared signal and place the data on the bus . The bus carries the data to the main memory from which the processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by the main memory may optionally be stored on the storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

The server may also include a communication interface coupled to the bus . The communication interface typically provides a two way data communication coupling between the server and a network not shown such as the Internet other servers storage media and the like. For example the communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem used to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example the communication interface may be a local area network LAN card used to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. Regardless of the specific implementation the main function of the communication interface is to send and receive electrical electromagnetic optical or other signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of data.

The invention has been described in the context of various embodiments and not every embodiment of the invention has been described. Apparent modifications and alterations to the described embodiments are available to those of ordinary skill in the art. The disclosed and undisclosed embodiments are not intended to limit or restrict the scope or applicability of the invention conceived of by the Applicants but rather in conformity with the patent laws Applicants intends to protect all such modifications and improvements to the full extent that such falls within the scope or range of equivalent of the following claims.

The various methods and embodiments of the invention may be included in combination with each other to produce variations of the disclosed methods and embodiments as would be understood by those with ordinary skill in the art given the understanding provided herein. Also various aspects of the embodiments may be used in conjunction with each other to accomplish the understood goals of the invention. Also the directions such as top bottom left right upper lower and other directions and orientations are described herein for clarity in reference to the figures and are not to be limiting of the actual device or system or use of the device or system. Unless the context requires otherwise the word comprise or variations such as comprises or comprising should be understood to imply the inclusion of at least the stated element or block or group of elements or blocks or equivalents thereof and not the exclusion of a greater numerical quantity or any other element or block or group of elements or blocks or equivalents thereof. Discussion of singular elements may include plural elements and vice versa. The device or system may be used in a number of directions and orientations. The term coupled coupling coupler and like terms are used broadly herein and may include any method or device for securing binding bonding fastening attaching joining inserting therein forming thereon or therein communicating or otherwise associating for example mechanically magnetically electrically chemically directly or indirectly with intermediate elements one or more pieces of members together and may further include without limitation integrally forming one functional member with another in a unity fashion. The coupling may occur in any direction including rotationally.

The order of blocks may occur in a variety of sequences unless otherwise specifically limited. The various blocks described herein may be combined with other blocks interlineated with the stated blocks and or split into multiple blocks. Additionally the headings herein are for the convenience of the reader and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Other and further embodiments using one or more aspects of the inventions described above may be devised without departing from the spirit of Applicant s invention. For example other means of communicating besides online Web site are envisioned such as through text messaging voice responsive systems and the like that provide interaction with the customer. Other variations are contemplated given the teachings of the disclosure herein.

Further any references mentioned in the application for this patent as well as all references listed in the data disclosure originally filed with the application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety to the extent such may be deemed essential to support the enabling of the invention. However to the extent statements might be considered inconsistent with the patenting of the invention such statements are expressly not meant to be considered as made by the Applicant s .

