---

title: Navigation device and method for enhanced map display
abstract: A method and device are disclosed for navigation. In at least one embodiment, the method includes determining map information for display on an integrated input and display device of a navigation device, based upon a determined route of travel of the navigation device; determining, prior to display on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device, whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern; enhancing, upon determining that the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern, the determined at least one designated pattern; and displaying the determined map information, including the enhanced at least one designated pattern, in three dimensions on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device. In at least one embodiment, the navigation device includes a processor to determine map information for subsequent display, based upon a determined route of travel of the navigation device, the processor further being useable to determine, prior to display, whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern and to enhance, upon determining that the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern, the determined at least one designated pattern; and an integrated input and display device to display the determined map information, including the enhanced at least one designated pattern, in three dimensions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07930101&OS=07930101&RS=07930101
owner: TomTom International B.V.
number: 07930101
owner_city: Amsterdam
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20071010
---
The present application hereby claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e on each of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 879 523 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 549 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 553 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 577 filed Jan. 10 2007 60 879 599 filed Jan. 10 2007 and 60 879 588 filed Jan. 10 2007 the entire contents of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The following applications are being filed concurrently with the present application. The entire contents of each of the following applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EARLY INSTRUCTION OUTPUT application Ser. No. 11 907 229 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING AND USING PROFILES application Ser. No. 11 907 230 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD RELATING TO AN AUDIBLE RECOGNITION MODE application Ser. No. 11 907 232 filed on even date herewith NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING POINTS OF INTEREST application Ser. No. 11 907 233 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR FUEL PRICING DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 234 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR INFORMATIONAL SCREEN DISPLAY application Ser. No. 11 907 235 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DEALING WITH LIMITED ACCESS ROADS application Ser. No. 11 907 243 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR TRAVEL WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 244 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DRIVING BREAK WARNING application Ser. No. 11 907 227 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR ISSUING WARNINGS application Ser. No. 11 907 242 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAY OF POSITION IN TEXT READIBLE FORM application Ser. No. 11 907 241 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR EMERGENCY SERVICE ACCESS application Ser. No. 11 907 228 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING REGIONAL TRAVEL INFORMATION IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 240 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING SPECIAL CHARACTERS IN A NAVIGATION DEVICE application Ser. No. 11 907 239 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A PERSONAL AREA NETWORK Ser. No. 11 907 238 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD USING A LOCATION MESSAGE Ser. No. 11 907 237 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONSERVING POWER application Ser. No. 11 907 236 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL application Ser. No. 11 907 253 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USING A TRAFFIC MESSAGE CHANNEL RESOURCE application Ser. No. 11 907 252 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR QUICK OPTION ACCESS Ser. No. 11 907 251 filed on even date herewith A NAVIGATION DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DISPLAYING A RICH CONTENT DOCUMENT Ser. No. 11 907 257 filed on even date herewith.

Navigation devices were traditionally utilized mainly in the areas of vehicle use such as on cars motorcycles trucks boats etc. Alternatively if such navigation devices were portable they were further transferable between vehicles and or useable outside the vehicle for foot travel for example.

These devices are typically tailored to produce a route of travel based upon an initial position of the navigation device and a selected input travel destination end position noting that the initial position could be entered into the device but is traditionally calculated via GPS Positioning from a GPS receiver within the navigation device. To aid in navigation of the route map information is visually output along the route of travel to a user of the navigation device.

The inventors discovered that output of visual information can be difficult for a user to perceive. For example although 2D and 3D views are typically displayable to a user of the navigation device the 2D display may be flat and may hide route details due to for example being overlaid with other images such as buildings etc. Even the 3D display may feel flat to a user and this rendered map image may remove the user from a feeling of reality. As such the inventors have discovered that the user may be confused because it is difficult for the user to match the displayed information to the real situation viewed by the user during driving of a vehicle for example or even possibly during travel on foot .

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes determining map information for display on an integrated input and display device of a navigation device based upon a determined route of travel of the navigation device determining prior to display on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern enhancing upon determining that the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern the determined at least one designated pattern and displaying the determined map information including the enhanced at least one designated pattern in three dimensions on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device.

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes a processor to determine map information for subsequent display based upon a determined route of travel of the navigation device the processor further being useable to determine prior to display whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern and to enhance upon determining that the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern the determined at least one designated pattern and an integrated input and display device to display the determined map information including the enhanced at least one designated pattern in three dimensions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the present invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In describing example embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner.

Referencing the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views example embodiments of the present patent application are hereafter described. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Formerly known as NAVSTAR the GPS incorporates a plurality of satellites which work with the earth in extremely precise orbits. Based on these precise orbits GPS satellites can relay their location to any number of receiving units.

The GPS system is implemented when a device specially equipped to receive GPS data begins scanning radio frequencies for GPS satellite signals. Upon receiving a radio signal from a GPS satellite the device determines the precise location of that satellite via one of a plurality of different conventional methods. The device will continue scanning in most instances for signals until it has acquired at least three different satellite signals noting that position is not normally but can be determined with only two signals using other triangulation techniques . Implementing geometric triangulation the receiver utilizes the three known positions to determine its own two dimensional position relative to the satellites. This can be done in a known manner. Additionally acquiring a fourth satellite signal will allow the receiving device to calculate its three dimensional position by the same geometrical calculation in a known manner. The position and velocity data can be updated in real time on a continuous basis by an unlimited number of users.

As shown in the GPS system is denoted generally by reference numeral . A plurality of satellites are in orbit about the earth . The orbit of each satellite is not necessarily synchronous with the orbits of other satellites and in fact is likely asynchronous. A GPS receiver usable in embodiments of navigation devices of the present application is shown receiving spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from the various satellites .

The spread spectrum signals continuously transmitted from each satellite utilize a highly accurate frequency standard accomplished with an extremely accurate atomic clock. Each satellite as part of its data signal transmission transmits a data stream indicative of that particular satellite . It is appreciated by those skilled in the relevant art that the GPS receiver device generally acquires spread spectrum GPS satellite signals from at least three satellites for the GPS receiver device to calculate its two dimensional position by triangulation. Acquisition of an additional signal resulting in signals from a total of four satellites permits the GPS receiver device to calculate its three dimensional position in a known manner.

The navigation device is located within a housing not shown . The housing includes a processor connected to an input device and a display screen . The input device can include a keyboard device voice input device touch panel and or any other known input device utilized to input information and the display screen can include any type of display screen such as an LCD display for example. In at least one embodiment of the present application the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device including a touchpad or touchscreen input wherein a user need only touch a portion of the display screen to select one of a plurality of display choices or to activate one of a plurality of virtual buttons.

In addition other types of output devices can also include including but not limited to an audible output device. As output device can produce audible information to a user of the navigation device it is equally understood that input device can also include a microphone and software for receiving input voice commands as well.

In the navigation device processor is operatively connected to and set to receive input information from input device via a connection and operatively connected to at least one of display screen and output device via output connections to output information thereto. Further the processor is operatively connected to memory via connection and is further adapted to receive send information from to input output I O ports via connection wherein the I O port is connectable to an I O device external to the navigation device . The external I O device may include but is not limited to an external listening device such as an earpiece for example. The connection to I O device can further be a wired or wireless connection to any other external device such as a car stereo unit for hands free operation and or for voice activated operation for example for connection to an ear piece or head phones and or for connection to a mobile phone for example wherein the mobile phone connection may be used to establish a data connection between the navigation device and the internet or any other network for example and or to establish a connection to a server via the internet or some other network for example.

The navigation device in at least one embodiment may establish a mobile network connection with the server via a mobile device such as a mobile phone PDA and or any device with mobile phone technology establishing a digital connection such as a digital connection via known Bluetooth technology for example . Thereafter through its network service provider the mobile device can establish a network connection through the internet for example with a server . As such a mobile network connection is established between the navigation device which can be and often times is mobile as it travels alone and or in a vehicle and the server to provide a real time or at least very up to date gateway for information.

The establishing of the network connection between the mobile device via a service provider and another device such as the server using the internet for example can be done in a known manner. This can include use of TCP IP layered protocol for example. The mobile device can utilize any number of communication standards such as CDMA GSM WAN etc.

As such an internet connection may be utilized which is achieved via data connection via a mobile phone or mobile phone technology within the navigation device for example. For this connection an internet connection between the server and the navigation device is established. This can be done for example through a mobile phone or other mobile device and a GPRS General Packet Radio Service connection GPRS connection is a high speed data connection for mobile devices provided by telecom operators GPRS is a method to connect to the internet.

The navigation device can further complete a data connection with the mobile device and eventually with the internet and server via existing Bluetooth technology for example in a known manner wherein the data protocol can utilize any number of standards such as the GSRM the Data Protocol Standard for the GSM standard for example.

The navigation device may include its own mobile phone technology within the navigation device itself including an antenna for example wherein the internal antenna of the navigation device can further alternatively be used . The mobile phone technology within the navigation device can include internal components as specified above and or can include an insertable card complete with necessary mobile phone technology and or an antenna for example. As such mobile phone technology within the navigation device can similarly establish a network connection between the navigation device and the server via the internet for example in a manner similar to that of any mobile device .

For GRPS phone settings the Bluetooth enabled device may be used to correctly work with the ever changing spectrum of mobile phone models manufacturers etc. model manufacturer specific settings may be stored on the navigation device for example. The data stored for this information can be updated in a manner discussed in any of the embodiments previous and subsequent.

Further it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic components shown in are powered by power sources not shown in a conventional manner. As will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art different configurations of the components shown in are considered within the scope of the present application. For example in one embodiment the components shown in may be in communication with one another via wired and or wireless connections and the like. Thus the scope of the navigation device of the present application includes a portable or handheld navigation device .

In addition the portable or handheld navigation device of can be connected or docked in a known manner to a motorized vehicle such as a car or boat for example. Such a navigation device is then removable from the docked location for portable or handheld navigation use.

The server includes in addition to other components which may not be illustrated a processor operatively connected to a memory and further operatively connected via a wired or wireless connection to a mass data storage device . The processor is further operatively connected to transmitter and receiver to transmit and send information to and from navigation device via communications channel . The signals sent and received may include data communication and or other propagated signals. The transmitter and receiver may be selected or designed according to the communications requirement and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation system . Further it should be noted that the functions of transmitter and receiver may be combined into a signal transceiver.

Server is further connected to or includes a mass storage device noting that the mass storage device may be coupled to the server via communication link . The mass storage device contains a store of navigation data and map information and can again be a separate device from the server or can be incorporated into the server .

The navigation device is adapted to communicate with the server through communications channel and includes processor memory etc. as previously described with regard to as well as transmitter and receiver to send and receive signals and or data through the communications channel noting that these devices can further be used to communicate with devices other than server . Further the transmitter and receiver are selected or designed according to communication requirements and communication technology used in the communication design for the navigation device and the functions of the transmitter and receiver may be combined into a single transceiver.

Software stored in server memory provides instructions for the processor and allows the server to provide services to the navigation device . One service provided by the server involves processing requests from the navigation device and transmitting navigation data from the mass data storage to the navigation device . According to at least one embodiment of the present application another service provided by the server includes processing the navigation data using various algorithms for a desired application and sending the results of these calculations to the navigation device .

The communication channel generically represents the propagating medium or path that connects the navigation device and the server . According to at least one embodiment of the present application both the server and navigation device include a transmitter for transmitting data through the communication channel and a receiver for receiving data that has been transmitted through the communication channel.

The communication channel is not limited to a particular communication technology. Additionally the communication channel is not limited to a single communication technology that is the channel may include several communication links that use a variety of technology. For example according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can be adapted to provide a path for electrical optical and or electromagnetic communications etc. As such the communication channel includes but is not limited to one or a combination of the following electric circuits electrical conductors such as wires and coaxial cables fiber optic cables converters radio frequency rf waves the atmosphere empty space etc. Furthermore according to at least one various embodiment the communication channel can include intermediate devices such as routers repeaters buffers transmitters and receivers for example.

In at least one embodiment of the present application for example the communication channel includes telephone and computer networks. Furthermore in at least one embodiment the communication channel may be capable of accommodating wireless communication such as radio frequency microwave frequency infrared communication etc. Additionally according to at least one embodiment the communication channel can accommodate satellite communication.

The communication signals transmitted through the communication channel include but are not limited to signals as may be required or desired for given communication technology. For example the signals may be adapted to be used in cellular communication technology such as Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. Both digital and analogue signals can be transmitted through the communication channel . According to at least one embodiment these signals may be modulated encrypted and or compressed signals as may be desirable for the communication technology.

The mass data storage includes sufficient memory for the desired navigation applications. Examples of the mass data storage may include magnetic data storage media such as hard drives for example optical storage media such as CD Roms for example charged data storage media such as flash memory for example molecular memory etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server includes a remote server accessible by the navigation device via a wireless channel. According to at least one other embodiment of the application the server may include a network server located on a local area network LAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN etc.

According to at least one embodiment of the present application the server may include a personal computer such as a desktop or laptop computer and the communication channel may be a cable connected between the personal computer and the navigation device . Alternatively a personal computer may be connected between the navigation device and the server to establish an internet connection between the server and the navigation device . Alternatively a mobile telephone or other handheld device may establish a wireless connection to the internet for connecting the navigation device to the server via the internet.

The navigation device may be provided with information from the server via information downloads which may be periodically updated upon a user connecting navigation device to the server and or may be more dynamic upon a more constant or frequent connection being made between the server and navigation device via a wireless mobile connection device and TCP IP connection for example. For many dynamic calculations the processor in the server may be used to handle the bulk of the processing needs however processor of navigation device can also handle much processing and calculation oftentimes independent of a connection to a server .

The mass storage device connected to the server can include volumes more cartographic and route data than that which is able to be maintained on the navigation device itself including maps etc. The server may process for example the majority of the devices of a navigation device which travel along the route using a set of processing algorithms. Further the cartographic and route data stored in memory can operate on signals e.g. GPS signals originally received by the navigation device .

As indicated above in of the application a navigation device of an embodiment of the present application includes a processor an input device and a display screen . In at least one embodiment the input device and display screen are integrated into an integrated input and display device to enable both input of information via direct input menu selection etc. and display of information through a touch panel screen for example. Such a screen may be a touch input LCD screen for example as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Further the navigation device can also include any additional input device and or any additional output device such as audio input output devices for example.

The navigation device may sit on an arm which itself may be secured to a vehicle dashboard window etc. using a large suction cup . This arm is one example of a docking station to which the navigation device can be docked.

As shown in the navigation device can be docked or otherwise connected to an arm of the docking station by snap connecting the navigation device to the arm for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for connection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application . The navigation device may then be rotatable on the arm as shown by the arrow of . To release the connection between the navigation device and the docking station a button on the navigation device may be pressed for example this is only one example as other known alternatives for disconnection to a docking station are within the scope of the present application .

In at least one embodiment of the present application a method includes determining map information for display on an integrated input and display device of a navigation device based upon a determined route of travel of the navigation device determining prior to display on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern enhancing upon determining the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern the determined at least one designated pattern and displaying the determined map information including the enhanced at least one designated pattern in three dimensions on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device .

In at least one embodiment of the present application a navigation device includes a processor to determine map information for subsequent display based upon a determined route of travel of the navigation device the processor further being usable to determine prior to display whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern and to enhance upon determining that the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern the determined at least one designated pattern and an integrated input and display device to display the determined map information including the enhanced at least one designated pattern in three dimensions.

As shown in based upon a determined route of travel of the navigation device map information is determined by processor for example for display in step S. A route of travel of the navigation device may be initially determined by the processor for example upon input or selection of a desired travel destination and upon detection of a current location via a GPS signal for example wherein determination of a route of travel from stored map information utilizing the current GPS location and input of selected travel designation can be done in a known manner by processor for example.

Thereafter in step S the processor determines whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern. This can be done prior to display of the map information on an integrated input and display device of the navigation device for example. If the answer is no then the system may output a normal display in step S for example on the integrated input and display device of the navigation device for example.

However if the answer to the question posed in step S is yes the process moves to step S wherein the determined at least one designated pattern is enhanced. Thereafter in step S the determined map information may be displayed including the enhanced at least one designated pattern in three dimensions on an integrated input and display device of the navigation device for example.

For example the processor may compare pixels in columns of the rendered 3D map stored in memory . In at least one non limiting example embodiment regarding building colors if two pixels above each other have the building color for example and the one below does not then the pixel below and the one above that one the middle pixel are changed into a new building shade color. In at least one non limiting example embodiment regarding water colors if two pixels above each other have the water color and the one above those two does not and or also does not have the water edge color then a middle pixel may be changed into the water edge color.

In at least one embodiment of the present application at least a portion of determined map information determined for a route of travel of the navigation device may be enhanced. An example of this is shown in of the present application for example. The enhancing may include at least one of emphasizing outlines changing the color shading and increasing a number of pixels representing at least a portion of the determined at least one designated pattern. The at least one designated pattern may include at least one of a body of water and a building footprint as shown in for example wherein such information may be scanned or otherwise looked for by a processor of the navigation device .

For example the determining of whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern by a processor of the navigation device for example can include the processor scanning the determined map information to detect an edge such as a horizontal diagonal or near vertical edge for example of at least one of a body of water and a building footprint. Thereafter the enhancing can include the processor emphasizing an outline of the detected edge. This may be done for example by the processor scanning a bitmap of received map information from storage in memory for example for a determined route of travel in a navigation device looking for edges such as a horizontal diagonal or near vertical edges for example for example of a building or body of water. Once found the processor may draw a darker line underneath the building for example as shown in to make it look like the side of the building for example. As such the processor may change the map information prior to display on the integrated input and display device .

For example in at least one non limiting embodiment the processor compares each pixel with the one above and below it. Then if an edge or transition is detected for that pixel by the processor then the pixel is changed into a different color. Examples are shown in before enhancement of building edge B after enhancement of building edge A before enhancement of water edge and B after enhancement of water edge .

For example as shown in after scanning or reviewing stored bitmap information the processor determines that a pixel A of is of a building color and that pixel B of is of a building color and determines that pixel C of is not of a building color represented in for example by the fact that pixel C is shown in a different gray scale than pixels A and B . For example the processor may be supplied with information regarding what is a building color for example and then compares this information to the color information of pixels A C for example. If the processor determines that a pixel A of is of a building color and that pixel B of is of a building color and determines that pixel C of is not of a building color then the processor recognizes an edge that needs to be enhanced in the map information and directs that the pixel B and pixel C be changed into a building edge color as shown in to thereby enhance the edge of the building.

In another example as shown in after scanning or reviewing stored bitmap information the processor determines that a pixel A of is of not of a water color and pixel A is not of a water edge color and that pixel B is of a water color and that pixel C is of a water color then the processor recognizes an edge that needs to be enhanced in the map information and directs that the pixel B be changed into a water edge color as shown in to thereby enhance the edge of the water.

Such a determination may be made by the processor for each pixel in the stored bitmap from left to right and top to bottom. An extra determination may be performed for water on pixel A to make sure that it is not of a water color or a water edge color as explained above to ensure that an edge is not smeared over the map information while processing from top to bottom for example.

In at least one embodiment there may be a variation for buildings for example wherein only pixel B may be changed if the building is farther than a threshold number of meters from the bottom of the screen less tall buildings toward the horizon . Building edges are typically not applied as the building is farther than a threshold number of meters from the bottom of the screen for example i.e. far away buildings do not get emphasized with an edge. Still further the distance is meters may be transformed to the projected height on the 3D screen to determine from which row the building edge processing should be applied.

Thus the determining may include the processor scanning the determined map information to detect at least one of a body of water and a building footprint for example wherein such information may be flagged or otherwise designated for example. The enhancing may then include the processor changing a color shade of at least a portion of the body of water and or building footprint for example.

In at least one embodiment the aspect of scanning the determined map information to detect at least one of a body of water and building footprint may alternatively be done by the processor scanning every pixel of the bitmap of received map information from memory for a determined route of travel from left to right and top to bottom and searching for a vertical pattern like for example 

Somewhat similarly the processor may scan every pixel of the bitmap of received map information for a determined route of travel to search for a body of water namely to search for a vertical pattern like for example 

In addition and or alternatively the determining by the processor may include scanning the determined map information to detect at least one of a body of water and a building footprint by any of the manners previously discussed and the enhancing may include the processor increasing the number of pixels representing at least a portion of at least one of the body of water and a building footprint. For example once detected instead of changing at least a portion of the building to a relatively darker version of the building color and or instead of changing at least a portion of the water edge to a relatively darker version of the water color pixels can be increased for these portions such as by adding more pixels to a building portion or a water edge portion to enhance the image for example.

As discussed above in for example the building size including the edge pixels may be effectively increased by 1 pixel. The building may be represented on the displayed map as one pixel larger in height for each horizontal pixel after the edge pixel has been added.

In addition it should be noted that other types of surfaces different from bodies of water and buildings can be determined by the processor in the determined map information based upon a route of travel of the navigation device . Such information can include for example roads woods fields etc. and can be enhanced by the processor in any of the manner previously described. Such an example of enhancement of road information is shown in the navigation display of .

It should be noted that each of the aforementioned aspects of an embodiment of the present application have been described with regard to the method of the present application. However at least one embodiment of the present application is directed to a navigation device including a processor to determine map information for subsequent display based upon a determined route of travel of the navigation device the processor further being useable to determine prior to display whether or not the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern and to enhance upon the processor determining that the determined map information includes at least one designated pattern the determined at least one designated pattern and an integrated input and display device to display the determined map information including the enhanced at least one designated pattern in three dimensions integrated input and display device The processor to enable options and or to enable display of icons upon receipt of an indication of selection of options. Thus such a navigation device may be used to perform the various aspects of the method described with regard to as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus further explanation is omitted for the sake of brevity.

The methods of at least one embodiment expressed above may be implemented as a computer data signal embodied in the carrier wave or propagated signal that represents a sequence of instructions which when executed by a processor such as processor of server and or processor of navigation device for example causes the processor to perform a respective method. In at least one other embodiment at least one method provided above may be implemented above as a set of instructions contained on a computer readable or computer accessible medium such as one of the memory devices previously described for example to perform the respective method when executed by a processor or other computer device. In varying embodiments the medium may be a magnetic medium electronic medium optical medium etc.

Even further any of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a program. The program may be stored on a computer readable media and is adapted to perform any one of the aforementioned methods when run on a computer device a device including a processor . Thus the storage medium or computer readable medium is adapted to store information and is adapted to interact with a data processing facility or computer device to perform the method of any of the above mentioned embodiments.

The storage medium may be a built in medium installed inside a computer device main body or a removable medium arranged so that it can be separated from the computer device main body. Examples of the built in medium include but are not limited to rewriteable non volatile memories such as ROMs and flash memories and hard disks. Examples of the removable medium include but are not limited to optical storage media such as CD ROMs and DVDs magneto optical storage media such as MOs magnetism storage media including but not limited to floppy disks trademark cassette tapes and removable hard disks media with a built in rewriteable non volatile memory including but not limited to memory cards and media with a built in ROM including but not limited to ROM cassettes etc. Furthermore various information regarding stored images for example property information may be stored in any other form or it may be provided in other ways.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading the disclosure the electronic components of the navigation device and or the components of the server can be embodied as computer hardware circuitry or as a computer readable program or as a combination of both.

The system and method of embodiments of the present application include software operative on the processor to perform at least one of the methods according to the teachings of the present application. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand upon reading and comprehending this disclosure the manner in which a software program can be launched from a computer readable medium in a computer based system to execute the functions found in the software program. One of ordinary skill in the art will further understand the various programming languages which may be employed to create a software program designed to implement and perform at least one of the methods of the present application.

The programs can be structured in an object orientation using an object oriented language including but not limited to JAVA Smalltalk C etc. and the programs can be structured in a procedural orientation using a procedural language including but not limited to COBAL C etc. The software components can communicate in any number of ways that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art including but not limited to by application of program interfaces API interprocess communication techniques including but not limited to report procedure call RPC common object request broker architecture CORBA Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM Distributed System Object Model DSOM and Remote Method Invocation RMI . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the present application disclosure the teachings of the present application are not limited to a particular programming language or environment.

The above systems devices and methods have been described by way of example and not by way of limitation with respect to improving accuracy processor speed and ease of user interaction etc. with a navigation device .

Further elements and or features of different example embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

Still further any one of the above described and other example features of the present invention may be embodied in the form of an apparatus method system computer program and computer program product. For example of the aforementioned methods may be embodied in the form of a system or device including but not limited to any of the structure for performing the methodology illustrated in the drawings.

Example embodiments being thus described it will be obvious that the same may be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the present invention and all such modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the following claims.

