---

title: Filtering of redundant frames in a network node
abstract: A method of filtering redundant frames including a MAC source address, a frame ID and a CRC value, in a network node with two ports each including a transmitting device and a receiving device, is provided. The transmitting device includes a transmission list in which frames to be transmitted are stored. The receiving device includes a receiving memory for storing a received frame. For filtering redundant frames in a network node, a first frame is received by one of the two ports. After reception of the MAC source address and the frame ID of the first frame in the transmission list of the port, a second frame with the same MAC source address and frame ID is sought. If the second frame is present, the first frame is neither forwarded to a local application nor forwarded to send to other ports, and the second frame is not sent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08184650&OS=08184650&RS=08184650
owner: Siemens Aktiengesellschaft
number: 08184650
owner_city: München
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20070302
---
This application is the US National Stage of International Application No. PCT DE2007 000392 filed Mar. 2 2007 claims the benefit thereof and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to a method for filtering redundant frames comprising at least one MAC source address a frame ID and a CRC value in a network node comprising at least two ports which each comprise a transmitting device and a receiving device wherein the transmitting device comprises a transmission list in which frames to be transmitted are stored and wherein the receiving device comprises a receiving memory for storing a received frame.

The invention also relates to a network node comprising at least two ports which each comprise a transmitting device and a receiving device wherein the transmitting device comprises a transmission list in which frames to be transmitted are stored and wherein the receiving device comprises a receiving memory for storing a received frame.

A method of this type is used in particular in high availability networks wherein frames are transmitted with redundancy. Fundamentally the requirements that have been fulfilled in conventional Profibus networks must also be capable of being realized in current and future Profinet networks. This means that equipment exchange or the extension of a network can be carried out whilst the rest of the network continues operating i.e. no loss of the provider consumer relationships . This has the consequence that a conventional Profibus line with bus architecture corresponds in the Profinet environment point to point architecture to a ring topology.

Where with a Profibus line a subscriber must transmit a frame only once and reaches all other Profibus subscribers therewith in the modern Profinet environment a cyclical frame is transmitted in addressed based manner in both directions on the ring and therefore twice. At the feed in node switch it is then ensured that this frame is filtered from the network. This prevents circulating telegrams in the ring F bit mechanism .

Present day applications in the production and manufacturing environment therefore require a production unit machine ring which is equipped with Profinet communication as a ring structure and therefore having high availability. A plurality of these production units should be linked to one another by an overarching factory ring . The linking itself must also be implemented with redundancy.

In order to meet the requirements for high availability of a network the individual rings must be connected together into linked ring structures. This means that frames from one ring must be fed out and then fed in again. However with the redundancy procedures used today for cyclic communication the original frame circulating in a simple ring and its duplicate are both fed out. Therefore in the adjoining ring the original frame and the duplicate frames are doubled via both ports. This results in four identical cyclic frames in the subsequent ring structure. In general where a plurality of such rings are connected one behind the other the number of cyclic frames doubles with each ring topology and the available bandwidth is halved with each further ring that is connected. As a consequence given the orders of volume required cyclic communication cannot be carried out in this way.

The frames circulating in the ring are filtered out of the ring at the feed in node using the conventionally implemented F bit mechanism. This means that each cyclic frame fed into the ring must be learned in a memory of the feed in and coupling switches and on being received anew filtered again at the feed in or coupling switch. Suitable resources must be provided for this since otherwise feeding in of the frame is not possible.

A highly available network also means that the coupling nodes between the rings are implemented with redundancy. I.e. the ring structures are linked to one another at two or more sites redundant coupling . In redundantly coupled ring structures of this type the cyclic frames are fed multiple times into the subsequent ring structure via the two coupling paths and transmitted there via both ports of the coupling switch. The cyclic frames of one direction become extinguished at the other redundant coupling node through the F bit mechanism . Nevertheless doubling of the number of frames takes place at the subsequent coupling nodes and thus as with simply coupled rings a halving of the bandwidth for cyclic Profinet communication takes place.

Using the conventionally implemented redundancy method for cyclic frames only simple ring structures can be created wherein all the nodes are present in the ring as subscribers. Structures set apart from the ring IO controller Profinet line or coupled to the ring lead to telegram multiplication and therefore to bandwidth loss on these paths. Therefore the disadvantages of the conventional method are 

With conventional Profinet devices switches a redundant coupling of a plurality of ring structures is possible only with the aid of software. This means that the coupling between adjacent ring structures does not take place directly in the switch itself but that all cyclic frames that are fed out to the adjacent ring must be fed through a software interface. This ensures that in each case only one cyclic frame original or duplicate frame is fed out at a coupling switch. The feeding in of the cyclic frame is also carried out by means of software in order to avoid feeding in again a cyclic frame which has already been fed in and which has been transmitted via the redundant coupling path.

The data rate achievable in this way is severely restricted and does not by any means meet the required order of volume. Coupling via a plurality of rings series connection of rings as is the case for example in railway systems can only be realized with relatively great restrictions. The present day requirements of the manufacturing and processing industries cannot currently be met.

This aim is achieved with a method of the aforementioned type in that a first frame is received by one of the at least two ports and after reception of the MAC source address and the frame ID of the first frame in the transmission list of said port a second frame with the same MAC source address and frame ID is sought and if the second frame is present the first frame is not forwarded to a local application nor is it forwarded to send to other ports of the node and the second frame is not sent.

In order to support redundant network structures the problems of the multiple feeding of the redundant cyclical Profinet frames out of the ring and of preventing circulating telegrams within a ring need to be solved. Both problems can be solved with the methods according to the invention of frame extinguishing in the network . The fundamental principle herein is the fact that in a redundant system e.g. a ring topology a frame fed in via a plurality of ways typically 2 ways meets itself again at some point in the network. The two identical frames can meet each other either on the line between two adjacent network nodes or precisely in a network node.

If this property is used in order to extinguish the original and duplicate frame at the site of their meeting then circulation of frames in the redundant network typically a ring and feeding out of both the frames original and duplicate frame at a node switch is prevented. If a meeting of the two frames is not possible then the network topology is not redundant. A circulating frame or multiple feed out cannot take place in this case and the frame extinguishing in the network concept does not have to be used.

If according to the inventive method a cyclic frame is received at a port then once the MAC address and frame ID have arrived this cyclic frame is sought in the transmission list of the receiving port. All the transmission orders of the port are run through in sequence and checked for equality of MAC source address and frame ID. If there is no matching of the received cyclic frame with the frames to be transmitted in the transmission list then this received cyclic frame has not yet arrived via another port as a duplicate and can therefore be forwarded to all the other ports for transmitting or can be received from a local application. If on the other hand the cyclic frame is found in the transmission list then the duplicate has already been received via another port and placed in line in the port in question for forwarding.

In redundant network structures the original and duplicate frame meet again at some point in the network. If it is ensured that at this meeting site in the network both the frames extinguish one another then multiple feeding out to an adjacent network structure and multiple feeding in into the first network structure are prevented. This results in the following advantages 

In an advantageous faun of the embodiment the second frame is checked for errors on the basis of the CRC value and only if the second frame is fault free the first frame is not forwarded to a local application nor is said first frame forwarded to send to other ports of the node and or if the second frame is faulty the second frame is not sent. In this way the first frame is only filtered out of the network if the second frame has been or will be correctly transmitted and additionally or alternatively a faulty second frame is filtered out of the network.

In a further advantageous embodiment the first frame is checked for errors on the basis of the CRC value and only if the first frame is fault free the second frame is not sent and or if the first frame is faulty the first frame is not forwarded to a local application nor is said first frame forwarded to send to other ports of the node. In this way exactly as in the previous embodiment the second frame is only filtered out of the network if the first frame has been or will be correctly transmitted and additionally or alternatively a faulty first frame is filtered out of the network. The two aforementioned embodiments considered together if only one frame is faulty first or second or original or duplicate lead to partial filtration of the redundant frames but this is sufficient to satisfy the requirement in high availability networks for the greatest possible guarantee of data security.

In another advantageous embodiment it is checked whether the second frame is stored completely in the transmission list and if the second frame is incompletely stored the first frame is stored in the receiving memory until the second frame is completely stored. This is carried out by means of the store and forward method that is implemented as standard in many switches and which is used when checking the frames for fault free reception.

In another advantageous embodiment if the second frame is not present the first frame is forwarded to at least one of the other ports of the node for transmission if the first frame is not exclusively destined for a local application. Thus frames that are only addressed to the local application known as unicast frames are taken out of the network on reaching their destination and are no longer sent to other nodes. By contrast multicast or broadcast frames which are addressed to more than one recipient are forwarded via the other ports of the first node that are bound into the network.

In a further advantageous embodiment in the absence of the second frame the first frame is forwarded to a local application if the first frame is destined for this local application. If the second frame has already been entered in the transmission list however said second frame has already been received by the local application.

In another advantageous embodiment the ports bound into the network are specifically identified and when the first frame is forwarded to other ports of the node for sending said first frame is forwarded to all the specifically identified other ports for sending. Thus the ports of a node that are bound into a redundant network also the outlet ports are specifically identified as redundant ports R ports and a cyclic frame received via an R port is always forwarded to all the other R ports.

In a further advantageous embodiment at least the two most recently sent frames are stored in an additional memory region in the transmission list. This ensures that the redundant frames are also filtered if they meet between two nodes on the network line. If original and duplicate frames meet on the line given a maximum line length between two nodes of 100 m at 5 ns m and a transit time through the PHY layer of 0.2 s for the receiving direction and 0.1 s for the transmission direction of no more than 0.5 0.3 s 0.8 s both frames are transmitted before they meet at the opposite receiving port. With a 100 Mbit Ethernet a minimum frame ca 6 s is therefore only partially transmitted. It is thereby ensured that both original frames are entered in the transmission lists of the ports while the respective duplicate is just being received. This means that extinguishing is possible. However with a 1 Gbit Ethernet a frame can be transmitted entirely before it arrives at the opposite receiving port. In order to achieve reliable extinguishing of the original and duplicate frames in this case it is necessary to provide an additional port specific intermediate buffer with a depth of two entries .

A frame is only reliably extinguished by its duplicate in the network if both the original and the duplicate frame are transmitted faultlessly. However if an error occurs somewhere in the network e.g. a CRC error a one sided cable break conductor break this can lead to one of the two frames original or duplicate lacking or no longer being recognized as such. The previous extinguishing mechanism would then no longer work and circulating frames or multiple feeding out of frames would arise. In order to avoid this it is necessary to localize a faulty or missing cyclic frame with suitable mechanisms and to introduce suitable measures in the relevant sub network that is at the site of occurrence.

For this purpose the MAC source address and the frame ID of the faultlessly sent cyclic frame are stored in a port specific echo list. If the cyclic frame is transmitted with CRC errors then the frame is not entered in the echo list. In addition the transmission time point of the cyclic frame is stored. The receiving node generates an echo frame for every correctly received cyclic frame. A cyclic frame that is not correctly received is not acknowledged with an echo frame. Advantageously the echo frame contains only the frame information necessary for a comparison and therefore comprises only a frame header without data bytes. If an echo frame is received said frame is essentially not forwarded and a comparison is made between the MAC source address the frame ID and the entries in the echo list. A match indicates that the path between the nodes is fault free no interruption or disruption . If the port recognizes that the echo time has elapsed between the transmission time point stored in the echo list and the actual time point without a corresponding echo frame having arrived then the path forward or return line between the nodes is faulty. In this case the forwarding of all subsequent cyclic frames in the transmitting and receiving directions at the relevant port is interrupted. The local path monitoring no longer operates. The interruption of the forwarding forwarding block is active prevents the reverse directed duplicate frame circulating through the now missing original frame since said duplicate frame runs into the blocked receiving port and is therefore not forwarded. A cyclic frame fed in via another node runs from both sides original and duplicate frame to the forwarding block and is filtered there at the receiving port or is not forwarded at the transmitting port. Summarizing the following functions must be carried out by every redundant port 

In another advantageous embodiment the echo frame generated by the receiving device is entered with the highest priority in the transmission list of the transmitting device. In order to return the echo frames as directly as possible to the transmitting node said echo frames are added to the transmission list with the highest priority. An echo frame can therefore only be delayed by a frame which is just then running.

In another advantageous embodiment the maximum elapsed time between storing an entry in the echo list and receiving the associated echo frame is chosen as the echo time. Since in this exemplary embodiment an echo frame can only be delayed by a frame which is just then running the maximum elapsed time is given by twice a line delay at the maximum line length typically at 5 ns m and twice 100 m corresponding to 1 s plus a bridging delay the latent period in the adjacent switch corresponding to the PHY running time of 0.3 s see above plus the delay time which is caused by a maximum frame before the echo frame. In the case of a maximum frame of typically 1530 byte this would be another 12.24 s in a 1 Gbit Ethernet or 122.4 s in a 100 Mbit Ethernet. Overall therefore the result is an echo time of 13.54 s for a 1 Gbit Ethernet and 123.7 s for a 100 Mbit Ethernet.

In a further advantageous embodiment in the echo list for a 100 Mbit Ethernet the last 20 entries are stored and for a 1 Gbit Ethernet the last 22 entries are stored. Assuming a maximum line length 100 m to the adjacent switch a maximum quantity of frame data must be stored such that the adjacent switch just sends one frame of maximum length and that only frames of minimum length 64 bytes plus 8 bytes preamble with an inter package gap of 96 bits 12 bytes are sent from the sending port. The maximum entries to be stored are calculated from the maximum delay time divided by the time necessary for sending a minimum frame plus the inter package gap that is 0.672 s with a 1 Gbit Ethernet and 6.72 s with a 100 Mbit Ethernet.

In a further advantageous embodiment the interruption of the forwarding at the end of a current communication cycle is lifted. A condition thereof is that at this time point all the original and duplicate frames in the network have been transmitted otherwise the lifting of the block can again lead to circulating cyclic frames.

In a further advantageous embodiment the redundant frames are provided with a cycle number which gives the communication cycle at the time point of feeding the frames into the network.

In a further advantageous embodiment the first frame is checked for errors using the CRC value and only if the frame is faulty and the cycle number does not match the current communication cycle the frame is not forwarded to a local application nor forwarded to send to other ports of the node. This is intended to ensure that at the cycle end all the original and duplicate frames have been transmitted. Therefore on receipt in each switch only those cyclic frames which were fed in during the current cycle are correctly forwarded without CRC errors . All the other cyclic frames are also sent with CRC errors or filtered.

In a further advantageous embodiment the redundant frames are provided with a TTL time to live timer and if the TTL timer has a value of zero the first frame is not forwarded to a local application nor forwarded to send to other ports of the node. It is essentially achieved with the elapsing of the TTL timer that a circulating cyclic frame can sooner or later be filtered out of the network. But for as long as the TTL timer has not elapsed the circulating frame ensures impairment of the Ethernet communication. Breakdown in the provider consumer relationship and thus disruption of the operational process cannot be avoided with the TTL timer. The TTL timer can only provide a guarantee of a recovery of the network after a certain time depending on the initial value of the timer . The TTL timer does serve however as an assurance and should not run out due to the echo monitoring. If however despite the local echo monitoring between adjacent Ethernet ports a cyclic frame is not extinguished or is not filtered by the block on a ring port then the cyclic frame which then circulates leads to continuous flooding of the whole network. Useful data or management communication is still possible only to a limited extent or not at all. In this case without the TTL timer a new start of the system is the only possibility for repair of the network and thus for filtering the circulating cyclic frames. In order to prevent this the time to live counter is implemented as a further mechanism as a fall back which enables each circulating cyclic frame to be destroyed once the TTL timer has expired. The TTL timer is carried in a TTL field in each cyclic frame. The TTL timer in the cyclic frame is for example an 8 bit field 0 255 and is set to a fixed value by the feed in node.

In a further advantageous embodiment the TTL timer of the first frame is decremented by one on receipt of the first frame. Based on the defined value range of the TTL timer a maximum number of switches nodes to be passed through of typically 255 with an 8 bit field is possible.

In a further advantageous embodiment the TTL timer of the first frame is decremented by one on receipt of the first frame if the network node is linked at more than two ports to other network nodes of the network. This relates to coupling switches which apart from connections to the network ring itself have a further connection to for example an adjacent network ring i.e. the TTL counter is decremented by one only on receipt at a coupling switch. Given precise knowledge of the network topology an exact TTL value can be set on feeding in since the number of coupling nodes can be counted from the feeding in ring to the target ring and entered in the cyclic frame as a TTL value. Faster filtration of the circulating cyclic frame can thus be achieved.

In the example shown in frame should reach the receiving device of the port before frame is received by the port . The inventive method which naturally is used identically for the frame received in the port will now be described from the viewpoint of the frame received in the port i.e. frame represents the first frame received at a first port the original and frame represents the second frame received at another port the duplicate . After receipt of the MAC source address and the frame ID of the first frame at the first port a cyclic second frame with the same MAC source address and frame ID is sought in the transmission list of the first part . Since the duplicate has already been received via another port and placed in line in the first port for forwarding the second frame is also entered in the transmission list of the first port . Thus the first frame is not forwarded to a local application nor forwarded to send to other ports of the node for sending and the second frame is not sent i.e. the duplicate is set to invalid in the transmission list of the port . As a consequence both frames have extinguished one another and have thus been successfully filtered out of the network.

When the echo frame arrives at the node it is fundamentally not passed on and a comparison of the MAC source address and the frame ID with the entries in the echo list is made. A hit in the list shows that the path between the nodes and is fault free no interruption or disruption . If the node detects by means of time monitoring that an echo time has elapsed between the sending time stored in the echo list and the actual time point without a corresponding echo frame arriving then the path forward or reverse line between the nodes and is faulty. In this case the forwarding of all subsequent cyclic frames in the sending and receiving directions at the relevant port is interrupted until the end of the communication cycle. However frame reception for echo formation for all subsequent cyclic frames is retained. This corresponds exactly to the situation described forwarding is interrupted shown at left in the figure and an echo frame is sent from the node to the node . The local path monitoring therefore continues functioning.

The interruption of forwarding until the cycle end forward block is active prevents a reverse directed duplicate frame circling through the now missing original frame since said original frame runs into the blocked port of the node and thus is not forwarded. A cyclic frame fed in via another node runs from both sides to the forwarding block in the node and is filtered there at the receiving port or is not forwarded at the transmitting port.

Via the network node SW in the ring a cyclic frame which is addressed to the node SW in the ring is fed in and sent in both directions as the original solid arrow and the duplicate frame dashed arrow . Via the coupling switches KS and KS the original frame is fed out in each case and later in the switch SW is then extinguished with the duplicate frame in the ring . The fed out original frame is then fed again redundantly in the ring via both the R ports R and R to the two coupling switches KS and KS. In the process the two frames which were fed in via port R of the coupling switch KS and port R of the coupling switch KS extinguish one another so that only the frames fed in via the port R of the coupling switch KS and via the port R of the coupling switch KS remain and these again effectively comprise an original frame and a duplicate frame. These run in opposing directions through the ring and are also both received by the network node SW but in the node SW one of the frames is destroyed by frame extinguishing so that only one frame is received by the local application.

A more exact consideration illustrates the fate of the frame running between the coupling switches KS KS KS firstly contains the original frame fed in by the switch SW and in the next step sends this frame to all the other coupling switches KS KS which in turn in the next step send the frame received at the respective receiving port to all the other R ports. As a result it is not only the frames between KS and KS which become extinguished as described above but also the frames between KS and KS and between KS and KS. The redundant frames meet one another on the path between the coupling switches KS KS. However as already explained in the description this does not play any role with a 100 Mbit Ethernet since each frame has not yet been sent fully when the associated duplicate is received i.e. they are still entered in the transmission list and extinguishing can therefore take place. In the case of a 1 Gbit Ethernet the disappearance of a frame from the transmission list due to a completed sending is prevented by an additional buffer memory in the transmission list of at least two entries so that extinguishing of the frames is ensured in this case. This additional buffer memory can also be the echo list described above which contains all the essential frame information such as the MAC source address and frame ID. As a result of the inventive method of filtering redundant frames a frame fed with redundancy into a network ring is fed only once with redundancy into an adjacent network ring even where there is multiple redundant coupling to said adjacent network ring .

Summarizing the invention relates to a method for filtering of redundant frames which comprise at least a MAC source address a frame ID and a CRC value in a network node comprising at least two ports which each comprise a transmitting device and a receiving device wherein the transmitting device comprises a transmission list in which frames to be transmitted are stored and wherein the receiving device comprises a receiving memory for storing a received frame. In order to filter redundant frames in a network node of a network it is proposed in the aforementioned method that a first frame is received by one of said port and after reception of the MAC source address and the frame ID of the first frame in the transmission list of said port a second frame with the same MAC source address and frame ID is sought and if the second frame is present the first frame is not forwarded to a local application nor is it forwarded to send to other ports of the node and the second frame is not sent.

