---

title: Fast acting inhibitor of gastric acid secretion
abstract: The present invention relates to the use of pharmaceutically acceptable zinc salts, in particular, zinc chloride and zinc acetate alone or optionally, in combination with one or more of a protein pump inhibitor (PPI), H2-blocker, cytoprotective agent or a combination of agents as otherwise described herein for providing fast action with optional long duration effect in reducing gastric acid secretion, including acid secretion in the fundus (by inhibiting vacuolar H-ATPase or H/K-ATPase) and upper body region of the stomach (by inhibiting H/K-ATPase), thus raising the pH of gastric juices in rapid fashion and decreasing the duration of stomach acid release during a secretagogue phase. The method is also directed to treating conditions including gastroesophogeal reflux disease, non-erosive reflux disease, Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, ulcer disease, and gastric cancer, as well as preventing or reducing the likelihood of ulcer disease. In addition, the present methods are useful for treating patients who are non-responsive to PPIs and as an alternative to traditional therapies or conditions which are caused by rapid and complete inhibition of secretagogue induced acid secretion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08512761&OS=08512761&RS=08512761
owner: Yale University
number: 08512761
owner_city: New Haven
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070726
---
This application is a continuation in part application of patent application PCT US07 01950 entitled Fast Acting Inhibitor of Gastric Acid Secretion filed Jan. 25 2007 which claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional applications no. US60 762 595 filed Jan. 27 2006 U.S. 60 764 834 filed Feb. 3 2006 and U.S. 60 850 891 filed Oct. 11 2006 each of said applications being incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The Federal government has supported the subject invention and this application by virtue of NIH grant DK50230. As such the Government has certain rights in this invention under 37 CFR 401.14 and 35 U.S.C. 203. The Federal government has a nonexclusive nontransferable irrevocable paid up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States the subject invention throughout the world.

The present invention relates to the use of pharmaceutically acceptable zinc salts preferably water soluble zinc salts alone or optionally in combination with one or more of a protein pump inhibitor PPI H2 blocker anti antibiotic antimicrobial cytoprotective agent or a combination agent as otherwise described herein for providing fast action with optional long duration effect in reducing gastric acid secretion including acid secretion in the fundus by inhibiting vacuolar H ATPase or H K ATPase and upper body region of the stomach by inhibiting H K ATPase thus raising the pH of the stomach during resting phase as well as decreasing the duration of stomach acid release during a secretagogue phase and for treating conditions including gastroesophogeal reflux disease GERD non erosive reflux disease NERD Zollinger Ellison syndrome ZE disease ulcer disease and gastric cancer as well as preventing or reducing the likelihood of ulcer disease. In addition the present methods are useful for treating patients who are non responsive to proton pump inhibitors PPI and as an alternative to traditional therapies or conditions which are caused by rapid and complete inhibition of secretagogue induced acid secretion.

The present invention also relates to the use of one or more water soluble zinc salts administered in combination with a therapeutic compound or agent second therapeutic agent which may be delivered orally with enhanced bioavailability compared to compounds which are administered in the absence of water soluble zinc salts or other favorable benefits. In addition therapeutic agents which exhibit sensitivity to low pH may be advantageously orally administered in combination with an effective amount of at least one water soluble zinc salt. Compositions according to the present invention exhibit greater bioavailability of the active agent when formulated in combination with a water soluble zinc salt in oral dosage form than when administered with the water soluble zinc salt.

The generation of concentrated 0.16N hydrochloric acid by the mammalian parietal cell involves a complex combination of neuronal and hormonal regulatory feedback loops. Following activation of the cell there is a complex cellular transfer of ions that allows for the formation of acid. A disruption in any of these components secretory receptors or ion transporters can lead to either a cessation in the secretion of acid or in the hypersecretion of acid. In the latter over 30 million patients per year suffer from symptoms of acid related diseases with the numbers increasing yearly. Clinically the uncontrolled release or the continued hypersecretion of acid can lead to changes in both gastric and intestinal epithelium but can in more serious cases lead to erosions of the esophagus that can result in metaplasia and death. Recent evidence has also emerged that prolonged recurrent periods of hypersecretory states can lead to gastric carcinoid formation.

In an attempt to design therapies to prevent hyperacid secretion a variety of approaches have been employed in recent years with two of the most successful being a inhibition of the Histamine receptor on the basolateral membrane of the parietal cell b proton pump specific drugs targeted against the H K ATPase the so called proton pump inhibitors PPI . Both of these therapies have greatly improved the quality of life for patients suffering from this disease however there is an ever increasing number of patients that have experienced recurrent disease while still taking the drugs. Despite their high degree of efficacy and worldwide clinical use failure in the treatment of acid related diseases has been reported and the degree and speed of onset of symptom relief are important to patients. It has been estimated that about 30 of GERD patients remain symptomatic on standard dose of PPI. Furthermore PPI s have a short plasma half life which often leads to nocturnal acid breakthrough. Therapeutic oral doses of PPIs reach steady state and thus achieve their maximal effective levels after 4 5 days with typical dosing regimens. This slow and cumulative onset of effect of PPIs relates to their ability to inhibit only those pumps which are active when the PPI drug is available. After PPI administration there is a return of acid secretion that is partly due to de novo synthesis of the enzyme.

Zinc is an essential part of the diet that all cells require in order to maintain membrane integrity and function. Deficiency in intracellular zinc leads to apoptotic events and cell death. Previous studies have investigated the potential role of zinc in the proliferation and generation of the protective barrier namely the mucous gel layer at the surface of the stomach. These studies falsely attributed the reduction in acid secretion to an increase in the thickness of the gel layer.

Gastric acid aids protein digestion facilitates the absorption of iron calcium and vitamin B12 and prevents bacterial overgrowth. When levels of acid and proteolytic enzymes overwhelm the mucosal defense mechanisms ulcers occur. To avoid damage that is associated with these harsh conditions gastric acid must be finely regulated by overlapping neural e.g. acetylcholine hormonal e.g. gastrin and ghrelin and paracrine e.g. histamine and somatostatin pathways and more recently via the Calcium Sensing Receptor. Any long term alterations in any of these regulatory pathways leads to cell and tissue destruction and clinical manifestations such as peptic ulcer diseases or gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD . Two methods are commonly employed to treat the overproduction of acid a surgically by elimination of the neuronal element vagotomy or b pharmacologically either through histamine 2 receptor antagonists or proton pump inhibitors PPI s or a combination of both.

PPI s such as omeprazole are irreversible inhibitors of the gastric H K ATPase recently various derivatives of the parent compound omeprazole that bind to multiple cysteine residues on the exofacial surface of the H K ATPase have been developed in hopes of having a tighter molecular binding and longer action have been employed. Both rabeprazole and lansoprazole are examples of these multiple binding drugs and are activated in the acidic lumen of the gastric gland and modify the cysteine residues located on the luminal surface of the H K ATPase. In the resting cell the acid secreting pumps are internalized in a system of tubular vesicles and are in such a conformational state that the PPIs can only inhibit the H K ATPases which have already been activated and transferred to the apical surface of the parietal cell.

Although optimizing pharmacological profiles within the PPI class may provide some clinical benefit other areas of research may prove to be more fruitful and furthermore the fine tuning of the acid secretory process is still not completely understood and remains an important target for therapies to modulate gastric acid secretion.

Zinc is required for a large number of biological processes including gene expression replication membrane stability hormonal storage and release and as a catalytic component for enzymes. There has been no investigation of the actions of zinc at the cellular level relating to effects on acid secretion.

The stomach is a large organ that can be divided into 3 main zones that are involved in the process of digestion of foodstuff and the sterilization of liquids and water. When defining the functional process of the stomach it has been commonly divided into two zones Upper Stomach and Lower Stomach. The upper stomach is thought to be composed of the fundus and upper body and shows low frequency sustained contractions that are responsible for generating a basal pressure within the stomach. Of note is that these tonic contractions also generate a pressure gradient from the stomach to small intestine and are responsible for gastric emptying. Interestingly when swallowing food and the consequent gastric distention that occurs acts to inhibits contraction of this region of the stomach allowing it to balloon out forming a large reservoir without a significant increase in pressure. The lower stomach is thought to be involved in the grinding and liquefaction of the foodstuffs by the secretion of HCl from the parietal cells found in this section of the stomach.

The present invention relates to novel compositions and methods for the rapid inhibition of acid secretion that has little to no potential for side effects. In a first aspect the present invention relates to zinc compositions comprising at least one pharmaceutically compatible zinc salt preferably a water soluble salt in an effective amount which produces a rapid decrease i.e. within a period of no greater than about 5 minutes no greater than about 10 minutes no greater than about 20 minutes no greater than about 30 minutes no greater than one hour of acid secretion in a patient s stomach with a resulting increase elevation in stomach pH to an intragastric pH level of at least about 3.0 3.5 at least about 4.0 about 4.0 to about 5.0. In this aspect of the invention a patient who is in need of an increase of stomach pH is treated with an effective amount of a pharmaceutically compatible zinc salt such that rapid onset of elevated pH within the stomach occurs. This method invention relies on the administration preferably by but not limited to ingestion of an effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically compatible preferably water soluble zinc salt and in which a substantial portion dissolves in the gastric juices at low pH generally less than about 2.0 and preferably within a range pH from low pH about 1.0 to about 2.0 to higher pH about 5.5 to about 7.5 or higher such that effective amounts of zinc salt may be administered to provide an initial rapid inhibition of acid release and a subsequent maintenance of inhibition of acid release in the stomach. In the present invention inhibition of gastric acid is inhibited preferably within a rapid period of about 20 minutes to about 1 hour generally within a period no greater than about 5 minutes within a period no greater than about 10 minutes or within a period no greater than about 20 minutes within a period no greater than about 30 minutes within a period no greater than about one hour .

The rapid decrease of acid secretion in the patient s stomach occurs throughout the stomach in both the upper stomach and lower stomach through inhibition of H K ATPase although localized effects of compounds according to the present invention in the upper stomach especially in the fundic region of the stomach through inhibition of a second distinguishable protein H ATPase and or the upper body of the upper stomach through inhibition of H K ATPase . Thus an additional aspect of the invention is directed to the use of effective amounts of pharmaceutically acceptable zinc compounds for the inhibition of H K ATPase generally throughout the stomach H ATPase primarily in the fundic region of the stomach and preferably both. The finding that the present compounds may be used to inhibit H ATPase in the fundic region has important clinical ramifications for the following reasons 

1 The erosion of the esophagus by exposure to acid has life threatening consequences due to either internal bleeding ulceration and or gastric carcinoid formation by the prolonged exposure to acid. Pursuant to the present invention as is now demonstrated glands in the fundus are in direct proximity to the esophageal juncture that they will secrete acid and can be inhibited by compounds according to the present invention thus making the present compounds particularly effective in treating GERD NERD and related conditions. 2 There is an ever increasing number of patients that are becoming insensitive to PPI proton pump inhibitors and have recurrent symptoms of acid reflux disease. The protein that we identified in the fundic glands is not sensitive to PPI s and could be the reason that these patients do not respond to classical therapy. 3 Patients on PPI s for long periods of time appear to show some rebound acid secretion. This result could again be linked to the fundic H ATPase which we show is sensitive to Histamine and to the levels of protons within the cell.

In preferred embodiments of this invention aspect a single zinc salt which is water soluble regardless of pH i.e. within a range of pH from about 1.0 to about 7.5 or above is preferred. Zinc chloride is the preferred salt for use in the present invention. In alternative embodiments a mixture of a low pH soluble zinc salt with a high pH soluble zinc salt or a zinc salt which may be readily absorbed through the small intestine such as a zinc amino acid chelate compound optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer is provided. In this aspect of the invention an effective amount of a zinc salt selected from the group consisting of zinc chloride ZnCl zinc acetate zinc ascorbate zinc succinate zinc tartrate zinc malate zinc maleate a zinc amino acid chelate mono or bis chelate and mixtures thereof preferably a mixture of zinc chloride and at least one of zinc acetate zinc gluconate zinc succinate zinc ascorbate and a zinc amino acid chelate is provided alone or in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier additive or excipient.

In various aspects the present invention relates to the use of at least one water soluble zinc salt alone or in combination with at least one compound composition within the context of the disease state or condition to be treated selected from the group consisting of a traditional proton pump inhibitor compound composition an H2 blocker an antibiotic antimicrobial agent effective against a cytoprotective agent or a mixture of these agents Helidac Prevpac to provide fast action in reducing gastric acid secretion to lower the pH of the stomach to prevent or reduce the likelihood of ulcer disease to treat ulcer disease to treat gastric cancer to treat a disease or condition selected from the group consisting of gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD non erosive reflux disease NERD Zollinger Ellison syndrome ZE disease ulcer disease and gastric cancer as well as preventing or reducing the likelihood of ulcer disease.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a mixture of zinc salts which maximize both immediate and extended release characteristics of the present invention optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier additive or excipient and further optionally an effective amount of additional agent selected from the group consisting of a proton pump inhibitor an Hblocker an anti antibiotic antimicrobial a cytoprotective agent and a combination of agents are additional aspects of the present invention. Any one or more of these compositions may be used within context to treat the various conditions disease states as otherwise disclosed herein.

In an additional aspect of the present invention pharmaceutical compositions comprise at least one water soluble zinc salt as otherwise described herein in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent wherein the oral administration of said agent is favorably affected by elevated pH levels in the stomach optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier additive or excipient. It has unexpectedly been discovered that the inclusion of a water soluble zinc salt as otherwise described herein to raise the pH of the gastric juices in combination with a therapeutic agent which is favorably responsive to elevated pH levels because of the tendency of the agent to produce increase undesired acidity in the stomach because of acid sensitivity of the therapeutic agent because of enhanced solubility at higher acid pH s less acid of about 3.5 4.0 or higher and or because of the tendency of the therapeutic agent to create GI tract distress or ulcerations at lower pH s which are substantially reduced or alleviated at higher pH s represents a general approach for enhancing the oral administration of therapeutic agents by increasing bioavailability and or decreasing the side effects from the therapeutic agent.

The term patient or subject refers to an animal preferably a mammal even more preferably a human in need of treatment or therapy to which compounds according to the present invention are administered in order to treat a condition or disease state treatable using compounds according to the present invention. Depending upon the disease or condition treated the term patient refers to the animal treated for that disease within context.

The term effective is used to describe a treatment compound composition component or a related aspect of the present invention which when used in context produces an intended result which may include the increase in pH in the stomach the reduction of symptoms associated with excess acid release the enhanced bioavailability of an administered compound or the favorable treatment of a disease state or condition. The term effective subsumes both an amount or concentration of one or more active agent s as described herein and a period of time which is consistent with producing an intended effect.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable zinc salt or zinc salt used in context refers to a salt or salt combination which contains zinc dissolves in the gastric juices at reduced pH and is absorbed to some extent in the gastric mucosa at a low pH of about 2 or less at a higher pH of about 4.0 to 5.0 or above of the stomach and at the high pH s of the small intestine to reach and maintain effective concentrations of zinc in the blood stream over a period of therapy. Exemplary pharmaceutically compatible zinc salts include both inorganic and organic zinc salts for example zinc acetate zinc ascorbate zinc benzoate zinc bromide zinc butyrate zinc caprylate zinc carbonate soluble in dilute acid at low pH of the stomach zinc carnosine zinc citrate zinc chloride zinc fluoride zinc formate zinc fumarate zinc fumaric acid monoethyl ester zinc gallate zinc gluconate zinc glutarate zinc glycerate zinc glycerophosphate zinc glycolate zinc hydroxide zinc iodide zinc iodate zinc lactate zinc malate zinc maleate zinc myristate zinc nitrate zinc oratate zinc oxide zinc phenol sulfonate zinc phosphate zinc picolinate zinc picrate zinc propionate zinc salicylate zinc selenate zinc stearate zinc succinate zinc sulfate zinc tannate zinc tartrate zinc undecylenate zinc valerate and zinc chelates including zinc amino acid chelates including depending on concentration mono and bis chelates of L or D amino acids preferably the naturally occurring L amino acid which may be more readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract which complex or chelate with zinc including preferably L arginine zinc arginate L cysteine L cystine L N acetylcysteine L histidine also D histidine as zinc histidinate L taurine L glycinate L aspartate zinc aspartate and L methionine zinc methionine among others. Note that for purposes of the present invention zinc chelates including zinc nicotinamide complex and zinc amino acid chelates are considered zinc salts. Preferred zinc salts for use in the present invention include zinc acetate zinc arginate zinc butyrate zinc chloride zinc citrate zinc formate zinc fumarate zinc gluconate zinc glutarate zinc glycerate zinc glycolate zinc histidinate zinc lactate zinc malate zinc maleate zinc picolinate zinc propionate zinc salicylate zinc succinate zinc sulfate zinc undecylenate zinc salt of 1 6 fluctose diphosphate and mixtures thereof.

Preferably the pharmaceutically acceptable zinc salt is water soluble . The term water soluble is used to describe a zinc salt and zinc chelates which fall under this term according to the present invention which has a water solubility of at least about 0.01 moles Liter preferably at least about 0.05 moles Liter.

One of ordinary skill will recognize favorable zinc salts to use in the present invention. In aspects of the invention at least one pharmaceutically compatible water soluble zinc salt is administered to a patient in order to provide a rapid inhibition of acid release in the stomach resulting in an increase in stomach pH to above 4 generally between about 4.0 and 5.0 in some cases above 5.0 for an extended period of time preferably at least 2 hours 4 hours 6 hours 8 hours 10 hours 12 hours 16 hours 20 hours or more. It is noted that in certain preferred aspects of the invention the zinc salt or combination of salts chosen to be administered to the patient may be adjusted to provide an initial bolus concentration of zinc in the stomach at low pH in order to produce the rapid inhibition of acid release and rise in pH in the stomach to a level above about 4. In addition a preferred zinc salt or salt combination inhibits acid release in the stomach at varying levels of acidity and pH i.e. at a level which is quit acidic pH less than about 2.0 to a pH of about 4.0 or higher.

The term providing fast action in reducing gastric acid secretion is used to describe the fact that the method according to the present invention results in an increase in pH to a level of at least about 4.0 more preferably about 4.0 to about 5.0 or slightly above in a period of no greater than about 30 minutes preferably in less than about 20 30 minutes even more preferably in less than about 10 20 minutes in about 15 minutes or less or alternatively in less than about 5 minutes.

The term secretagogue refers to the period during which time the pariental cells of the stomach secrete acid into the gastric juices to lower pH. Often the secretagogue period occurs just after a meal but the secretion of acid may occur at other times. The secretagogue phase can be of short duration or longer duration.

The term gastroesophageal reflux disease or GERD or acid reflux is a condition in which the liquid content of the stomach regurgitates backs up or refluxes into the esophagus. The liquid can inflame and damage the lining of the esophagus although this occurs in a minority of patients. The regurgitated liquid usually contains acid and pepsin that are produced by the stomach. The refluxed liquid also may contain bile that has backed up into the stomach from the duodenum. Acid is believed to be the most injurious component of the refluxed liquid. Pepsin and bile also may injure the esophagus but their role in the production of esophageal inflammation and damage esophagitis is not as clear as is the role of acid.

GERD is a chronic condition. Once it begins it usually is life long. If there is injury to the lining of the esophagus esophagitis this also is a chronic condition. Moreover after the esophagus has healed with treatment and treatment is stopped the injury will return in most patients within a few months. Once treatment for GERD is begun therefore it may be necessary to continue the treatment continually generally for short periods of time.

Actually the reflux of the stomach s liquid contents into the esophagus occurs in most normal individuals. In fact one study found that reflux occurs as frequently in normal individuals as in patients with GERD. In patients with GERD however the refluxed liquid contains acid more often and the acid remains in the esophagus longer.

Gravity swallowing and saliva are important protective mechanisms for the esophagus but they are effective only when individuals are in the upright position. At night while sleeping gravity is not in effect swallowing stops and the secretion of saliva is reduced. Therefore reflux that occurs at night is more likely to result in acid remaining in the esophagus longer and causing greater damage to the esophagus.

Certain conditions make a person susceptible to GERD. For example reflux can be a serious problem during pregnancy. The elevated hormone levels of pregnancy probably cause reflux by lowering the pressure in the lower esophageal sphincter see below . At the same time the growing fetus increases the pressure in the abdomen. Both of these effects would be expected to increase reflux. Also patients with diseases that weaken the esophageal muscles see below such as scleroderma or mixed connective tissue diseases are more prone to develop reflux.

The cause of GERD is complex. There probably are multiple causes and different causes may be operative in different individuals or even in the same individual at various times. A number of patients with GERD produce abnormally large amounts of acid but this is uncommon and not a contributing factor in the vast majority of patients. The factors that contribute to causing GERD are the lower esophageal sphincter hiatal hernias esophageal contractions and emptying of the stomach. Notwithstanding the cause of GERD the present invention may reduce the tendency of having injurious acid reflux into the esophagus causing damage.

When the wave of contraction in the esophagus is defective refluxed acid is not pushed back into the stomach. In patients with GERD several abnormalities of contraction have been described. For example waves of contraction may not begin after each swallow or the waves of contraction may die out before they reach the stomach. Also the pressure generated by the contractions may be too weak to push the acid back into the stomach. Such abnormalities of contraction which reduce the clearance of acid from the esophagus are found frequently in patients with GERD. In fact they are found most frequently in those patients with the most severe GERD. The effects of abnormal esophageal contractions would be expected to be worse at night when gravity is not helping to return refluxed acid to the stomach. Note that smoking also substantially reduces the clearance of acid from the esophagus. This effect continues for at least 6 hours after the last cigarette.

Most reflux during the day occurs after meals. This reflux probably is due to transient LES relaxations that are caused by distention of the stomach with food. A minority of patients with GERD about 20 has been found to have stomachs that empty abnormally slowly after a meal. The slower emptying of the stomach prolongs the distention of the stomach with food after meals. Therefore the slower emptying prolongs the period of time during which reflux is more likely to occur.

The term non erosive reflux disease or NERD is used describe a specific form of GERD described above. In some cases GERD erodes the esophageal lining creating a condition called esophagitis. NERD is GERD that does not cause esophagitis. Because most GERD sufferers do not have esophagitis NERD is the most common form of GERD. Because its name contains the word nonerosive it may appear that NERD is the least severe form of GERD but this is not necessarily so. NERD is actually more likely to produce extra esophageal complications and is also less likely to respond to fundoplication surgery. In one study only 56 of NERD patients compared with 90 of patients with erosive reflux reported that their symptoms were completely eliminated with fundoplication. NERD was also twice as likely to cause swallowing difficulties.

Heartburn is the chief symptom of NERD. It has a number of potential causes including hiatal hernia lifestyle behaviors and diet. Many people deal with heartburn by simply adjusting their behavior. In some cases medication or surgery may be required. Traditional antacids have also been used to treat NERD.

The term Zollinger Ellison syndrome or ZE syndrome is used throughout the specification to describe a condition caused by abnormal production of the hormone gastrin. In ZE syndrome small tumor gastinoma in the pancreas or small intestine produces the high levels of gastrin in the blood. ZE syndrome is caused by tumors usually found in the head of the pancreas and the upper small bowel. These tumors produce the hormone gastrin and are called gastrinomas. High levels of gastrin cause overproduction of stomach acid. High stomach acid levels lead to multiple ulcers in the stomach and small bowel. Patients with ZE syndrome may experience abdominal pain and diarrhea. The diagnosis is also suspected in patients without symptoms who have severe ulceration of the stomach and small bowel.

The agents of choice for treating ZE syndrome are the proton pump inhibitors PPI as described hereinabove. These drugs dramatically reduce acid production by the stomach and promote healing of ulcers in the stomach and small bowel. They also provide relief of abdominal pain and diarrhea.

Surgical removal of a single gastrinoma may be attempted if there is no evidence that it has spread to other organs such as lymph nodes or the liver . Surgery on the stomach gastrectomy to control acid production is rarely necessary today. Early diagnosis and surgical removal of the tumor is associated with a cure rate of only 20 to 25 . However gastrinomas grow slowly and patients may live for many years after the tumor is discovered. Acid suppressing medications are very effective at controlling the symptoms of acid overproduction.

The term ulcer is used throughout the specification to describe an area of tissue erosion for example especially of the lining of the gastrointestinal GI tract especially of the stomach peptic ulcer esophagus or small intestine duodenal ulcer . Due to the erosion an ulcer is concave. It is always depressed below the level of the surrounding tissue. Ulcers can have diverse causes but in the GI tract they are believed to be primarily due to infection with the bacteria . GI ulcers however may be made worse by stress smoking and other noninfectious factors especially including excessive stomach acid because a lower pH tends to be a better growth environment for

Traditional treatments for infections include antimicrobials antibiotics such as amoxicillin clarithromycin biaxin metronidazole flagyl and tetracycline an anti agent H blockers such as cimetidine tagamet famotidine pepcid nizatidine axid ranitidine zantac proton pump inhibitors PPI such as esomeprazole nexium lansoprazole prevacid omeprazole prilosec pantoprazole protonix and rabeprazole aciphex cytoprotective agents such as bismuth subsalicylate sucralfate and combination agents such as Helidac bismuth subsalicylate metronidazole and tetracycline combination Prevpac lansoprazole clarithromycin and amoxicillin .

The present invention may be used to treat an infection in a patient by administering an effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically acceptable water soluble zinc salt either alone or in combination preferably by coadministration with at least one other of the traditional treatment modalities as described above.

The term coadministration or combination therapy is used to describe a therapy in which at least two active compounds in effective amounts are used to treat one or more of the disease states or conditions as otherwise described herein at the same time. Although the term coadministration preferably includes the administration of two active compounds to the patient at the same time it is not necessary that the compounds be administered to the patient at the same time although effective amounts of the individual compounds will be present in the patient at the same time. The active compositions may include one or more zinc salts and or additional compounds compositions such as proton pump inhibitors Hblockers antibiotics antimicrobial agents cytoprotective agents or combination agents as otherwise described herein in effective amounts for the disease or condition for which the compounds are typically used. In addition coadministration also contemplates combinations of water soluble zinc salts as otherwise described herein in combination with at least one therapeutic agent wherein elevated pH levels provide a favorably response to the administration of said therapeutic agent.

The term favorably responsive to elevated pH levels or favorably orally administered is used to describe therapeutic agents which in orally administered compositions provide a favorable response to an elevated pH in the stomach produced by a water soluble zinc salt according to the present invention whether that favorable response is a reduction in gastric irritation from the therapeutic agent a reduction in acid generation production in the stomach by the therapeutic agent to increase bioavailability which is negatively impacted by the sensitivity and or inactivation of the therapeutic agent to an acidic environment or because of increased solubility of the therapeutic agent in gastric juices at high pH levels. It has unexpectedly been discovered that the inclusion of a water soluble zinc salt as otherwise described herein in combination with a therapeutic agent which is favorably responsive to elevated pH levels because of the tendency of the agent to increase acid release and a lowering of pH in the stomach because of increased acid sensitivity of the therapeutic agent because of enhanced solubility of the agent with concombinant increased bioavailability of the therapeutic agent at higher less acid pH s of about 3.5 4.0 or higher and or because of the tendency of the therapeutic agent to create GI tract distress or ulcerations at lower pH s which are substantially reduced or alleviated at higher pH s results in greater activity and or fewer side effects from the therapeutic agent.

In general the weight ratio of water soluble zinc salt to therapeutic agent which is included in combination therapeutic compositions according to the present invention ranges from about 1 20 to about 20 1 about 1 10 to about 10 1 about 1 5 to about 5 1 about 1 3 to about 3 1 about 1 2 to about 2 1 about 1 1.5 to about 1.5 to 1 about 1 1. Of course the weight ratio used in a particular combination pharmaceutical composition will depend upon the water solubility of the zinc salt and the activity of the therapeutic agent in producing a side effect such as increasing stomach acid or increasing gastrointestinal distress GI tract distress or the tendency to increase the environment for ulceration in the gastrointestinal tract or to be inactivated rendered insoluble or have its bioavailability negatively impacted by stomach acid etc.

Therapeutic compounds which may be favorably administered orally for the reasons which are outlined above in combination with a water soluble zinc salt in the present invention include the following 

Zn plus chemolitic agents used to treat whole tissue cancer with secondary complications in the intestinal track GI tract distress as follows 

Zn plus agents used as immunosuppressive agents following organ transplantation such as cyclosporine and its derivatives azathioprine 6 mercaptopurine Prednisone infliximab Remicade and tetracycline among others.

Zn given in combination with asthma related drugs Theophylline and cortisteroids including betamethasone cortisone dexamethasone hydrocortisone methylprednisolone prednisolone and budenoise. Each of these agents can induce stomach lining erosion and increased acid secretion.

Over the counter NSAIDS and associated compounds cause GERD and GERD symptoms including ulcer disease 

Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors SSRIs Citalopram Celexa Escitalopram Lexapro Fluoxetine Prozac Parozxetine Paxel and Sertraline Zoloft. 

Zn taken in combination with the following drugs could potentially increase bioavailability of molecule due to the fact zinc does not cause the effects on inhibiting Cytochromes P 450 2C9 3A4 as omeprazole or esoprazole.

The term proton pump inhibitor is used throughout the specification to describe Proton pump inhibitors as drugs that help control the painful discomfort of heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD and promote the healing of stomach and duodenal ulcers. Proton pump inhibitors are only available by prescription. They come as tablets capsules injections or powders that are made into a suspension.

Proton inhibitors work by blocking the production of stomach acid. They inhibit a system in the stomach known as the proton pump which is another name for the hydrogen potassium adenosine triphosphate enzyme system. Proton pump inhibitors are rather versatile. They are used to heal stomach and duodenal ulcers including stomach ulcers caused by taking nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs. They are also used to relieve symptoms of oesophagitis inflammation of the oesophagus or gullet and severe gastroesophageal reflux GERD as discussed above.

Combined with certain antibiotics such as amoxycillin and clarithromycin or with zinc salts according to the present invention proton pump inhibitors are effective for treating infections a bacterial infection of the stomach . The bacterium is a chief suspect in the cause of recurring stomach ulcers. PPIs are also a first choice treatment for the rare condition called Zollinger Ellison syndrome discussed above.

Proton Pump Inhibitors exhibit side effects although they tend to be manageable including diarrhea feeling or being sick constipation flatulence abdominal pain headaches and more rarely allergic reactions itching dizziness swollen ankles muscle and joint pain blurred vision depression and dry mouth among others. Long term use of proton pump inhibitors can result in stomach infections. Because proton pump inhibitors completely stop acid production and stomach acid helps kill microbes such as bacteria in the stomach using PPIs can lead to growth of potentially harmful microbes in the stomach.

Proton pump inhibitors exhibit significant sometimes deleterious drug interactions including reactions with phenytoin as an epilepsy agent and warfarin to prevent blood clots to increase their effects with ketoconazole and itraconazole to reduce their absorptivity with diazepam valium to decrease its metabolism.

Proton pump inhibitors are usually taken for 1 2 months but in some cases may be taken longer. Symptoms may return when a person stops taking a proton pump inhibitor. Proton pump inhibitors may cause internal bleeding signs of which include vomiting blood detecting a substance like coffee grounds in your vomit or pass black tarry stools see your doctor immediately.

Common proton pump inhibitors include omeprazole Prilosec esomeprazole Nexium lansoprazole Prevacid pantoprazole Protonix and rabeprazole sodium Aciphex .

The present invention relates to a method for providing fast action with optional long duration effect in reducing gastric acid secretion raising the pH of the stomach during a resting phase decreasing the duration of stomach acid release during a secretagogue phase and for treating conditions including gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD non erosive reflux disease NERD Zollinger Ellison syndrome ZE disease ulcer disease and gastric cancer where the reduction in gastric acid secretion is beneficial as well as preventing or reducing the likelihood of ulcer disease by reducing gastric acid section. In addition the present methods are useful for treating patients who are non responsive to proton pump inhibitors PPI and as an alternative to traditional therapies or conditions which are caused by rapid and complete inhibition of secretagogue induced acid secretion.

The method comprises administering an effective amount of at least one pharmaceutically acceptable water soluble zinc salt to alleviate or treat the condition or disease state. The methods may involve the administration of a water soluble zinc salt alone or in combination with other agents as disclosed herein a single time or preferably for longer duration usually about 2 3 days to about 2 3 months with varying intervals in between depending upon the prognosis and outcome of the treatment.

Zinc salts according to the present invention may be administered alone or in combination with other compounds compositions or therapies depending upon the condition or disease state to be treated including an effective amount of a proton pump inhibitor or other agent as otherwise described herein which may be used to treat infections. These agents include proton pump inhibitors such as esomeprazole lansoprazole omeprazole pantoprazole or rabeprazole H2 blockers such as cimetidine famotidine nizatidine or ranitidine anti agents such amoxicillin clarithromycin biaxin metronidazole flagyl or tetracycline cytoprotective agents such as bismuth subsalicylate or sucralfate or a combination agent such as Helidac or Prevpac.

In a preferred aspect of the invention at least one water soluble zinc salt is used wherein the zinc salt or combination is characterized as being soluble and absorbable through the gastrointestinal mucosa at both low pH i.e. a pH of about 1 2 which occurs in an acidic condition in the stomach and higher pH i.e. a pH of about 4 5 or slightly above after acid secretion in the stomach is inhibited or even higher i.e. a pH of about 5.5 6.0 in the duodenum to about 6.5 7.5 in the jejunum and ileum the pH is slightly higher in the ileum than in the jejunum . By providing for compositions which are both water soluble and absorbable throughout the gastrointestinal mucosa i.e. in the stomach and through the various sections of the small intestine the bioavailability of the zinc salt will be maximized as will favorable therapy of the conditions or disease states to be treated. In this aspect a preferred combination of effective amounts of zinc chloride and at least one zinc salt preferably selected from the group consisting of zinc acetate zinc arginate zinc butyrate zinc citrate zinc formate zinc fumarate zinc gluconate zinc glutarate zinc glycerate zinc glycolate zinc histidinate zinc lactate zinc malate zinc maleate zinc picolinate zinc propionate zinc salicylate zinc succinate zinc sulfate zinc undecylenate zinc salt of 1 6 fluctose diphosphate and mixtures thereof more preferably zinc acetate zinc gluconate zinc ascorbate zincx succinate and a zinc amino acid chelate as mono or bis amino acid chelate is preferred although numerous other zinc acid compounds may be combined to produce favorable results.

Preferred zinc salts include those salts in which the anionic counterion in protonated form has a pKa of at least about 4 to about 5.5 or higher. Mixtures of zinc salts wherein all of the zinc salts are soluble within a range of pH from 1 2 to about 7.5 are preferred. Zinc acetate zinc gluconate zinc glycolate zinc succinate and zinc ascorbate alone or in combination with another zinc salt especially zinc chloride are particularly useful for use in the present invention. Zinc chelates especially zinc amino acid chelates mono or bis amino acid chelates may also be preferably used wherein a combination of zinc chloride and a zinc amino acid chelate selected from the group consisting of zinc chelates mono or bis chelates of L cysteine L cystine L N acetylcysteine L histidine D histidine L taurine L glycinate L aspartate L methionine and mixtures thereof.

Note that the following zinc salts have solubilities which tend to be reduced at pH values above about 7.0 so approaches to formulation should accommodate such information where absorptivity from the small intestine is featured duodenum jejunum and ileum especially at the distil end jejunum ileum where the pH of the small intestine may rise to between 7 8.0. Note that the use of such salts may favorably influence release characteristics of formulations and provide a means of delivering therapeutic agents especially those which are administered in combination therapy according to the present invention. Zinc salts that become insoluble above a pH of 7 include zinc acetate zinc chloride zinc bromide zinc fluoride zinc iodide zinc sulfate zinc citrate zinc lactate zinc nitrate zinc propionate zinc salicylate zinc tartrate zinc valerate zinc gluconate zinc selenate zinc benzoate zinc formate zinc glycerophosphate zinc picrate zinc butyrate and the like and combinations thereof.

Preferred zinc salts according to the invention include zinc chloride where pKa of the counterion is not important because of its interaction with chloride channels and organic acids including zinc acetate pka 4.75 zinc gluconate zinc succinate zinc tartrate zinc malate zinc maleate zinc ascorbate pka of 4.2 and 11.6 . Other zinc salts of organic acids may also be preferred depending on context of use. In addition zinc glycolate and zinc lactate may also be used preferably zinc glycolate being preferred. Other preferred salts include for example zinc acetate zinc arginate zinc butyrate zinc chloride zinc citrate zinc formate zinc fumarate zinc gluconate zinc glutarate zinc glycerate zinc glycolate zinc histidinate zinc lactate zinc malate zinc maleate zinc picolinate zinc propionate zinc salicylate zinc succinate zinc sulfate zinc undecylenate zinc salt of 1 6 fluctose diphosphate and mixtures thereof. In aspects of the invention it is preferred that when a combination of zinc salts is used that at least one zinc salt which is effective at low pH in the stomach for immediate inhibition of acid secretion be combined with an agent which may exhibit a heightened effect in the stomach at a pH of 4.0 5.0 or higher or which is preferentially absorbed in the small intestine a zinc mono or bis amino acid chelate or other chelate .

While not being limited by way of theory it is believed that a combination of a zinc salt which is effective at low pH in the stomach such as zinc chloride and also zinc sulfate and one or more of the organic acid zinc salts as otherwise disclosed herein which are effective at a higher pH will maximize delivery of zinc to the stomach mucosa to obtain a favorable effect at first by being dissolved in acid gastric juice in the stomach where an initial inhibition of acid occurs and the pH rises and subsequently through absorption of zinc from a zinc salt at a higher pH in the stomach or in the small intestine where blood levels of zinc will increase to therapeutic levels. The absorption and effect of a zinc salt at higher pH levels in the stomach or at the higher pH of the small intestine 5.5 7.5 or higher is advantageous because this delayed absorption of zinc will reduce gastric acid secretion at a later time than an initial effect at a low pH over an extended period of time. Compositions according to the present invention may be administered a single time but usually are administered preferably once or twice daily orally for a period ranging from about 2 3 days to several months or longer.

Compositions according to the present invention also relate to sustained or extended release formulations which comprise a first component which allows or facilitates fast dissolution in the gastric juices at low pH so that a rapid inhibition of acid secretion is effected with concombinant increase in pH to a level of about 4.0 to about 5.0 or higher and a second component which releases zinc salt at the higher pH level in the stomach or more preferably further in the small intestine on a sustained release basis in order to maintain an effective level of zinc in the blood stream to inhibit gastric acid secretion in the stomach for extended periods. The first fast acting component may be readily formulated using a zinc salt which dissolves in gastric juice at low pH e.g. zinc chloride or zinc sulfate at a pH about 1.0 to about 2.0 using standard excipients such as lactose confectioner s sugar in powered form various stearate salts etc which dissolves rapidly in the stomach and a second sustained or extended release formulation which makes us of any number of polymeric binders matrices polymeric and or erodible granules or enteric coatings to allow release of zinc salt on an extended or sustained release basis in the small intestine. Many of these techniques are well known in the art. Exemplary patents such as U.S. Pat. No. 4 863 741 to Becker U.S. Pat. No. 4 938 967 to Newton et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 940 556 to MacFarlane et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 202 128 to Morella et al. among numerous others may be useful for providing teachings all well known in the art for formulating fast release sustained or extended release formulations useful in the present invention.

The above formulations may be useful for providing enhanced bioavailabity of one or more zinc salts and optionally other agents which may be useful in treating or reducing the likelihood of one or more of gastric ulcers GERD NERD Zollinger Ellison syndrome gastric cancer and reducing inhibiting the secretion of acid in the stomach and raising the pH of the stomach to about 4.0 to about 5.0 or more as otherwise disclosed in the present invention. It is noted that in inhibiting acid secretion in the stomach blood concentrations of zinc salt of about 100 micromolar mol produce inhibition of about 70 . With 300 mol concentration of zinc salt the inhibition approaches 100 . The time of action of inhibition from the blood delivery side at 100 mol or 300 mol is immediate i.e. as soon as the zinc salt comes into contact with the cell membrane inhibition occurs. It may be shown that inhibition occurs within about 10 15 minutes to 1 about hour in the presence of secretagogue. The zinc salts may be administered orally preferably no more than once or twice a day or intravenously alone or in combination with optional PPI drugs.

The use of zinc chloride alone or in combination with at least one additional zinc salt as otherwise described herein is preferred. Additional preferred zinc salts include zinc acetate zinc gluconate zinc ascorbate zinc succinate and zinc amino acid chelates mono and bis amino acid chelates . These zinc salts and combinations may be used alone or in combination with additional agents such as a proton pump inhibitor esomeprazole lansoprazole omeprazole pantoprazole or rabeprazole an H2 blocker cimetidine famotidine nizatidine or ranitidine an anti agent amoxicillin clarithromycin metronidazole or tetracycline a cytoprotective agent such as bismuth subsalicylate or sucralfate or a combination agent such as Helidac or Prevpac.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising an effective amount of a pharmaceutically acceptable zinc salt alone or preferably in combination with at least one other zinc salt or an effective amount of a traditional proton pump inhibitor such as such as esomeprazole lansoprazole omeprazole pantoprazole or rabeprazole an H2 blocker such as cimetidine famotidine nizatidine or ranitidine an anti agent such amoxicillin clarithromycin biaxin metronidazole flagyl or tetracycline a cytoprotective agent such as bismuth subsalicylate or sucralfate or a combination agent such as Helidac or Prevpac optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier additive or excipient.

Pharmaceutical formulations include those suitable for oral rectal nasal topical including buccal and sub lingual vaginal or parenteral including intramuscular sub cutaneous and intravenous administration. Oral compositions or parenteral compositions especially those for IV administration are preferred. Compositions according to the present invention may also be presented as a bolus electuary or paste. Tablets and capsules for oral administration may contain conventional excipients such as binding agents fillers lubricants disintegrants or wetting agents. The tablets may be coated according to methods well known in the art. Oral liquid preparations may be in the form of for example aqueous or oily suspensions solutions emulsions syrups or elixirs or may be presented as a dry product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may contain conventional additives such as suspending agents emulsifying agents non aqueous vehicles which may include edible oils or preservatives. When desired as discussed hereinabove the present formulations may be adapted to provide sustained release characteristics of the active ingredient s in the composition using standard methods well known in the art. A composition which provides an effective amount of initial dose of zinc salt in the gastric juice at low pH followed by extended release effects of zinc over a longer duration may be preferred.

In the case of combination pharmaceutical compositions i.e. a composition which comprises at least one water soluble salt in combination with a therapeutic agent i.e. other than the zinc salt compositions may be formulated in admixture or they may be compartmentalized in the dosage form. Pharmaceutical formulations may be formulated in admixture by mixing the actives together along with the pharmaceutically acceptable carriers additives and or excipients in powder or liquid form and then using directly or presenting the mixture in tablet or capsule form. The compositions may be immediate release sustained or controlled release or intermediate sustained or controlled release depending upon the results desired. Formulations may also be presented which compartmentalize the water soluble zinc salt and the therapeutic agent into more than one portion of a tablet or capsule to take advantage of differential solubilities in order to enhance the bioavailability of the zinc salt and or the additional therapeutic agents using methods which are readily available in the art to those of ordinary skill.

In the pharmaceutical aspect according to the present invention the compound s according to the present invention is formulated preferably in admixture with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In general it is preferable to administer the pharmaceutical composition orally but certain formulations may be preferably administered parenterally and in particular in intravenous or intramuscular dosage form as well as via other parenteral routes such as transdermal buccal subcutaneous suppository or other route including via inhalation intranasally. Oral dosage forms are preferably administered in tablet or capsule preferably hard or soft gelatin form. Intravenous and intramuscular formulations are preferably administered in sterile saline. Of course one of ordinary skill in the art may modify the formulations within the teachings of the specification to provide numerous formulations for a particular route of administration without rendering the compositions of the present invention unstable or compromising their therapeutic activity.

In certain preferred embodiments the present compositions are preferably readily water soluble and mixtures of water soluble zincs may be used to effect an immediate release sustained release pharmaceutical profile. This may maximize immediate effect and longer duration effect by simply choose the type of salt and adjusting the ratio of the zinc salt mixture accordingly. Of course excipients can be chosen to affect the delivery and bioequivalence of the zinc salts used. It is well within the routineer s skill to modify the route of administration and dosage regimen of a particular compound in order to manage the pharmacokinetics of the present compounds for maximum beneficial effect to the patient.

Formulations containing the compounds of the invention may take the form of solid semi solid lyophilized powder or liquid dosage forms such as for example tablets capsules powders sustained release formulations solutions suspensions emulsions suppositories creams ointments lotions aerosols or the like preferably in unit dosage forms suitable for simple administration of precise dosages.

The compositions typically include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and may additionally include other medicinal agents carriers and the like. Preferably the composition will be about 0.05 to about 75 80 by weight of a zinc salt compound or compounds according to the invention with the remainder consisting of suitable pharmaceutical additives carriers and or excipients. For oral administration such excipients include pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine talcum cellulose glucose gelatin sucrose magnesium carbonate and the like. If desired the composition may also contain minor amounts of non toxic auxiliary substances such as wetting agents emulsifying agents or buffers.

Liquid compositions can be prepared by dissolving or dispersing the compounds about 0.5 to about 20 and optional pharmaceutical additives in a carrier such as for example aqueous saline aqueous dextrose glycerol or ethanol to form a solution or suspension. For use in oral liquid preparation the composition may be prepared as a solution suspension emulsion or syrup being supplied either in liquid form or a dried form suitable for hydration in water or normal saline.

When the composition is employed in the form of solid preparations for oral administration the preparations may be tablets granules powders capsules or the like. In a tablet formulation the composition is typically formulated with additives e.g. an excipient such as a saccharide or cellulose preparation a binder such as starch paste or methyl cellulose a filler a disintegrator and other additives typically used in the manufacture of medical preparations.

The present invention also contemplates a route of administration other than an oral route. An injectable composition for parenteral administration will typically contain the compound in a suitable i.v. solution such as sterile physiological salt solution. The composition may also be formulated as a suspension in a lipid or phospholipid in a liposomal suspension or in an aqueous emulsion.

The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention may also be administered by nasal aerosol or inhalation. Such compositions are prepared according to techniques well known in the art of pharmaceutical formulation and may be prepared as solutions in saline employing benzyl alcohol or other suitable preservatives absorption promoters to enhance bioavailability fluorocarbons and or other conventional solubilizing or dispersing agents.

Methods for preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in the art for example see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 17th Ed. Mack Pub. Co. 1985 . The person of ordinary skill will take advantage of favorable pharmacokinetic parameters of the pro drug forms of the present invention where applicable in delivering the present compounds to a patient suffering from a viral infection to maximize the intended effect of the compound.

The pharmaceutical compositions according to the invention may also contain other active ingredients such as proton pump inhibitors Hblockers antimicrobial agents cytoprotective agents or combination agents. In addition compounds according to the present invention may also contain anti cancer agents to treat gastric cancer . Effective amounts or concentrations of each of the active compounds are to be included within the pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention.

The individual components of such combinations may be administered either sequentially or simultaneously in separate or combined pharmaceutical formulations.

When one or more of the compounds according to the present invention is used in combination with a second therapeutic agent active the dose of each compound may be either the same as or differ from that when the compound is used alone. Appropriate doses will be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art.

The following examples are used to describe the present invention. It is understood that they are merely exemplary and are understood not to limit the breadth of the invention in any way.

The stomach produces acid to help break down food making it easier to digest. In some cases stomach acid can actually irritate the lining of the stomach and the duodenum top end of the small intestine . Sometimes the acid refluxes upwards and irritates the lining of the esophagus. Irritation of the lining of the stomach or the esophagus causes acid indigestion heartburn and sometimes causes ulcers or bleeding.

We show in this particular application that ZnClhas a potent inhibitory effect on gastric acid secretion at the cellular level by abolishing the activity of the gastric H K ATPase in rat and human gastric glands. We also demonstrate that addition of micromole concentrations of ZnClcan effectively prevent histamine dependent acid secretion in whole rat stomachs and through a ZnClenriched diet.

Sprague Dawley rats 150 250 g Charles River Laboratory were housed in climate and humidity controlled light cycled rooms fed standard chow with free access to water and handled according to the humane practices of animal care established by the Yale Animal Care. Prior to experiments animals were fasted for 18 24 hours with free access to water.

Following removal of the stomach the stomach was opened longitudinally and the corpus and antrum isolated and sliced into 0.5 cm square sections and washed with cold Ringer solution to remove residual food particles. The tissues were transferred to the stage of a dissecting microscope. Individual glands were isolated using a hand dissection technique as described previously. Following isolation individual isolated glands were allowed to adhere to cover slips that had been pre coated with Cell Tak Collaborative Research Bedford Mass. and were transferred to the stage of an inverted microscope.

The human tissue was transferred from the OR in a HEPES buffered Ringer solution. The tissue was stored on ice and immediately the isolated glands were dissected as described above.

Isolated gastric glands were incubated in a HEPES buffered Ringer s solution containing either 10 mol of the pH sensitive dye BCECF AM 2 7 bis 2 carboxyethyl 5 and 6 carboxy fluorescin aceto methyl ester Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. for 10 minutes as described previously. Following dye loading the chamber was flushed with a HEPES solution to remove all non de esterfied dye. The perfusion chamber was mounted on the stage of an inverted microscope Olympus IX50 which was used in the epifluorescence mode with a 40 objective. BCECF was successively excited at 440 nm and 490 nm from a monochromator light source and the resultant fluorescent signal was monitored at 535 nm using an intensified charge coupled device camera. Individual regions of interest were outlined and simultaneously monitored every 15 sec. during the course of the experiment. A minimum of 8 cells or regions was selected per gland.

Proton extrusion by individual parietal cells was monitored by observing recovery of pHafter acid loading the cells with Na free HEPES solution containing 20 mM NHCl. Parietal cells were subsequently superfused with Na free HEPES which abolished all Na H Exchanger NHE activity trapping H within the cytosol and initiating an immediate drop in pHi. Under these conditions the only potential H extrusion pathway is via the H K ATPase activation.

The intensity ratio data 490 440 were converted to pH values using the high K nigericin calibration technique. Intracellular pH recovery rates were calculated from the same initial starting pH to eliminate the potential variation in the individual intracellular buffering power of the cells under the different experimental conditions. All data including the individual images for all wavelengths were recorded to the hard disk which allowed us to return to the individual images after the experiment for further analysis. The recovery rates are expressed as the pH min and were calculated over the pH range of 6.5 6.8. All chemicals were obtained from Sigma and Molecular Probes. All data were summarized as means SE and were analysed by grouping measurements at baseline values.

Before the experiments animals were fasted for 24 h to reduce basal acid secretion to a consistent minimum. Animals were killed with an overdose of isoflurane and an abdominal incision was made. The stomach was ligated at the duodenal and esophageal junction and excised. Then 1 ml of non buffered isotonic saline 140 mM was infused into the lumen of the stomach. This volume did not distend the stomach thus avoiding potential stimulation of acid secretion by stretch. The stomachs were then placed in either oxygenated HEPES buffered Ringer solution or in the same solution containing 100 M histamine alone or additionally 300 M ZnCl pH 7.4 and maintained at 37 C. After 1 hour the stomach contents were aspirated and the pH was recorded.

These studies were designed to modulate acid secretion by increasing dietary zinc. In these studies we used an oral ZnClsolution zinc chloride in tap water . The animals had free access to food and the zinc containing water for the duration of the study 150 mg kg d or 0.5 mg kg d ZnClwas added to the drinking water for 5 days. Animals had free access to water prior to the experiment and were fed with standard chow until 24 hours before the experiment at which point they had free access to ZnClcontaining water only. After the 5 days exposure period and the 24 hour fast the animals were sacrificed and a total gastrectomy was performed on the animals. Individual gastric glands were isolated with the hand dissection technique described above.

In the first series pHmeasurements of single parietal cells within freshly isolated gastric glands were used to measure H K ATPase activity. The activity of the proton pump was calculated from the rate of alkalinization of pH pH min after acidification using the NH4Cl prepulse technique in the absence of sodium and bicarbonate. H extrusion under these conditions depends on the activity of the H K ATPase as previously shown. In the absence of any stimulation only a low rate of pHi recovery was observed 0.011 0.002 pHunits min n 32 cells from 3 glands from 3 animals . After exposure of the rat gastric glands to histamine 100 M the alkalinization rate increased to 0.051 0.004 pH units min n 60 cells from 15 glands from 8 animals . Adding 300 M ZnClto the superfusion bath in the presence of histamine 100 M prevented the stimulatory effect of histamine on the Na independent pHrecovery rate 0.0012 0.004 pH units min and reduced it to the same level as seen in the control glands not exposed to histamine n 60 cells from 6 glands from 4 animals . Human gastric glands showed also a robust proton efflux under histamine stimulation. This effect was abolished by ZnCl D n 26 cells 3 glands . Thus the freshly isolated rat and human gastric glands showed H K ATPase activity that could be stimulated by histamine and inhibited by ZnCl.

ZnClinhibited H extrusion in a dose dependent manner . In this protocol acid secretion was stimulated by histamine and expressed as pH min. Therefore rat gastric glands were incubated with 100 M histamine 15 min and histamine was present throughout the entire experiment. To investigate the inhibitory potency of ZnClwe used different concentrations 25 M 300 M . ZnClwas present during the entire experiment including the histamine incubation period of 15 min. 300 M ZnClshowed a 98 inhibition of proton extrusion compared to the Histamine induced rate and the control.

There are irreversible i.g. omeprazole and reversible P CAB s acid blockers available. We investigate the reversibility of the inhibitory effect of ZnClin our in vitro setting. Thus we stimulated acid secretion with histamine 100 M during the entire experiment. When the intracellular alkalinization acid secretion was observed ZnCl 300 M was added to the superfusion bath. The acid secretion was abolished after a few seconds A . After the removal of ZnClin the same experiment acid secretion returns to normal levels. We were also able to demonstrate reversibility following incubation and superfusion of parietal cells over 20 min with ZnCl 300 M and histamine 100 M . After removal of ZnClfrom the superfusion bath the intracellular alkalinization proton extrusion proceeded at normal uninhibited rate B .

These studies were designed to modulate acid secretion by increasing dietary zinc. 150 mg kg d or 0.5 mg kg d ZnClwere added to the drinking water for 5 days. The H extrusion rate was measured with BCECF as described before. Histamine stimulated parietal cells showed a robust recovery rate proton extrusion of 0.051 0.004 n 120 cells from 15 glands from 8 animals . shows that the ZnCl 150 mg kg d or 0.5 mg kg d in the drinking water decreased the histamine induced acid secretion significantly in comparison to the control group with histamine alone. 150 mg kg d 0.022 0.0045 n 60 cells from 10 glands from 3 animals 0.05 mg kg d 0.034 0.0036 n 60 cells from 6 glands from 4 animals .

To determine whether ZnClcould inhibit gastric acid secretion in the whole organ we examined luminal pH in freshly isolated rat stomachs after incubation in HEPES or in the same solution the presence of 100 M histamine or both 100 M histamine and 300 M ZnCl. As illustrated in in the presence of histamine mean luminal pH was lower than in control stomach preparations incubated in HEPES alone 3.15 0.27 vs. 4.59 0.48 n 9 for each P0.005 .

Measurements of whole stomach intraluminal pH using a number of zinc salts according to the present invention were made to assess effect of salt and concentration on intraluminal pH. Isolated whole stomach preparations from rats were cannulated at the esophageal and duodenal junction and perfused in vitro with 37 C. pH 7.4 Ringers solution. The blood perfusate was then exposed to 100 M Histamine to induce acid secretion. The lumen of the stomach was infused with 0.5 cc of non buffered isotonic saline. In some studies one of the following zinc salts was added to the lumen perfusate at a final concentration of 300 M zinc chloride zinc sulfate zinc acetate zinc citrate . The data are the sum of 5 separate stomachs from 5 separate animals for each of the columns. Data are the mean of all studies with the standard error of the mean displayed. Those results appear in attached .

In this study we examined the dose dependent inhibition of gastric acid secretion by ZnClin human and rat gastric glands. Furthermore we tried to evaluate the onset of effect of ZnCland used whole stomach preparation as well as oral Zinc supplementation to investigate the effect on gastric acid secretion.

Acid secretion was induced by the classically known secretagogue histamine which led to a robust proton extrusion via the H K ATPase in comparison to basal acid secretion in the resting unstimulated gland . In subsequent studies we examined the inhibitory effects of ZnClon secretagogue sensitive gastric acid secretion. We confirmed the inhibitory potency of ZnCl 300 M on histamine induced acid secretion. ZnClinhibits acid secretion in the single gastric gland in a dose dependent manner. ZnClabolished proton extrusion to a level comparable to that of the control experiments in both human and rat gastric glands . This dose would be equivalent to 40 mg supplementation per day in humans. The daily recommended amount of Zinc intake is 11 mg. In the literature the amount considered to be toxic is 10 times higher. Therefore 40 mg of ZnClas an oral acid blocker would be significantly lower than reported toxic doses. In addition a similar amount of ZnClalso prevented acid secretion in ex vivo whole stomach preparations . In these experiments ZnClwas applied to the luminal side of the stomach and it can thus be concluded that the metal ion is working directly on the H K ATPase of the parietal cell or enters the cell to modulate the signalling pathway of acid secretion. It remains unclear how ZnClenters the cell. Previous studies described Zinc entry into the cell through voltage dependent Ca channels and or the HCO Cl exchanger on the basolateral membrane. Orally applied ZnClconfirmed our previous results. Proton extrusion by ZnCltreated rats was significant lower than acid secretion by our control group . The control refers to histamine stimulated. In the figure zinc treated glands are still higher than the control non histamine treated alone.

As mentioned in the introduction proton pump inhibitors have a delayed onset of acute action and the full inhibitory effect is slow requiring several dose cycles. For example omeprazole reaches only 30 inhibition of acid secretion on the first day of treatment. Our study characterizes the rapid onset of action ZnClas well as its reversibility. Faster onset of effect and increased duration of action would offer improvement for patients with GERD and other acid related disorders. In fact as shown in we were able to inhibit histamine induced acid secretion during maximal proton extrusion by addition of 300 M ZnCl. On the other hand histamine induced acid secretion continued after removal of ZnClfrom the superfusion bath demonstrating the reversible nature of ZnCl .

In summary our findings indicate that ZnCloffer a more rapid and prolonged inhibition of gastric acid secretion. It is a reversible and fast acting inhibitor of acid secretion in single rat and human gastric glands and also in whole stomach preparations.

Such treatment may provide significant benefit to patients with GERD. Future studies investigating the exact mechanism by which ZnClinhibits acid secretion are necessary and will help define its future place in the treatment of acid related diseases in the clinical setting.

In the following examples it is shown that the fundic region of the stomach and the fundic glands contain functional acid secretory proteins. Furthermore it is shown that the fundic glands have a sodium and potassium independent protein the proton ATPase commonly referred to as the Vacuolar H ATPase. The evidence consists of immunofluorescence data using a antibody directed against the a Subunit of the H ATPase and functional data in which the extrusion rate of protons from these cells in the absence of Na and K is measured. Further there is evidence that this process is amplified in the presence of histamine a compound that was thought to only influence the gastric H K ATPase found in the parietal cells in the body of the stomach. This activity is demonstrated in both the rat model and in humans in gastric resections taken from patients undergoing gastric reduction surgery.

Male Sprague Dawley rats weighing 200 300 g were housed in climate and humidity controlled light cycled rooms and fed standard chow with free access to water. Prior to experiments animals were fasted while allowing free access to water for 18 24 hours to reduce basal acid secretion. Following isoflurane anesthesia the animals were sacrificed an abdominal incision was made exposing the stomach. After isolating the esophagus and duodenal junctures a total gastrectomy was performed with 1 2 cm of esophagus remaining attached to the gastrectomy. We included the esophageal juncture to have a common landmark for all fundic isolations. While holding the esophagus with forceps approximately 3 mm of fundus was removed with 5 mm of the intact esophagus.

The removed fundic tissue was placed in ice cold HEPES buffered Ringer solution pH adjusted to 7.4 at 4 C. and transferred to the stage of a dissection microscope. The fundic glands were visualized under the microscope at 50 magnification. Glands adjacent to the esophageal junction were hand dissected. Following isolation individual glands were adhered to cover slips that had been pretreated with the biological adhesive Cell Tak Cell Tak cell adhesive BD Biosciences Bedford Mass. 

Male Wistar rats 200 250 g were anesthetized with pentobarbital i.p. and perfused through the left ventricle with PBS followed by paraformaldehyde lysine periodate PLP fixative as previously described. Stomachs were removed cleaned from food residues and fixed overnight at 4 C. by immersion in PLP. Stomachs were washed three times with PBS and sections were cut at a thickness of 5 m after cryoprotection with 2.3 M in PBS for at least 12 h. Immunostaining was carried out as described previously. Sections were incubated with 1 SDS for 5 min. washed 3 times with PBS and incubated with PBS containing 1 bovine serum albumin for 15 min prior to the primary antibody. The primary antibodies mouse monoclonal anti human P gastric H K ATPase Affinity Bioreagents CA USA diluted 1 50 in PBS and applied overnight at 4 C. Sections were then washed twice for 5 min with high NaCl PBS PBS 2.7 NaCl once with PBS and incubated with the secondary antibody donkey anti rabbit Alexa 546 Molecular Probes Oregon at a dilution of 1 1000 for 1 h at room temperature. Sections were washed twice with high NaCl PBS and once with PBS before mounting with VectaMount Vector Laboratories Burlingame Calif. . The specimens were viewed with a Nikon E 800 microscope.

Rats were anaesthetized using 5 ml of a 10 sodium pentobarbital given i.p. Fixation was done through a left ventricle cardiac perfusion using PBS and then PLP. The stomach was removed and fixed in PLP for 4 hours and then transferred to holding buffer overnight. Frozen and Epon sections of the gastro esophageal junction were made and slices were taken for gold labeling and electron microscopy.

Rats were anaesthetized using 5 ml of a 10 sodium pentobarbital given i.p. Fixation was done through a left ventricle cardiac perfusion using PBS to flush the animal and then Karnovsky Fixative for 2 hours and then in holding buffer overnight. A section of the gastro esophageal junction were made and slices taken for Electron Microscopy morphology of the H K ATPase protein and Hematoxylin Eosin staining of the glands at the gastro esophageal junction.

Using the same protocol that we developed for isolated corpus gland perfusionindividual fundic glands were loaded with a 10 M concentration of the pH sensitive dye BCECF 2 7 bis 2 carbocyethal 5 and 6 carboxyflurorescein acetomethylester Molecular Probes OR USA for 15 minutes. Following the loading period the perfusion chamber was mounted on the stage of an inverted microscope Olympus IX50 attached to a digital imaging system Universal Imaging Corp Dowingtown Pa. and perfused with HEPES buffered Ringer solution for 5 min at 37 C. to remove any unesterified dye. Measurements were performed in the epifluorescence mode with 60 0.80 and 40 0.90 objectives. BCECF was successively excited at 440 10 nm and 490 10 nm the resultant intracellular fluorescent signal was monitored at 535 nm using an intensified charge coupled device camera. Data points were acquired every 15 s. The resulting 490 440 intensity ratio data were converted to intracellular pH pH values using the high K Nigericin calibration technique. Acid extrusion was monitored in the absence of bicarbonate. The rate of intracellular alkalinization was measured after using the NHCl prepulse technique which resulted in a reproducible and sustained intracellular acidification. Intracellular pH recovery rates H K ATPase activity were measured in Na free HEPES solutions containing 1 100 M histamine 2 100 M pentagastrin. 3 100 M acetylcholine 4 100 M histamine omeprazole at 100 M and 200 M concentrations.

Intracellular pH recovery rates were calculated from the same initial starting pH to eliminate the potential variation in the individual intracellular buffering power of the cells under the different experimental conditions. All data including the individual images for all wavelengths were recorded to the hard disk which allowed us to return to the individual images after the experiment for further analysis. The recovery rates are expressed as the pH min and were calculated over the pH range of 6.5 6.9.

Activation of acid secretion via histamine acetylcholine or pentagastrin was induced by preincubation of the glands for 15 min before the experiment combined with BCECF 100 M loading. All data are summarized as mean S.E. Significance was determined using the one way ANOVA test with p

Immunohistochemistry using specific antibodies directed against highly conserved epitopes within either the a or 0 subunits of the gastric H K ATPase identified specific staining for both subunits in the fundic glands A .

After obtaining Epon sections of fasted rat gastro esophageal junction Electron Microscopy was done on the gastric glands that came right after this junction and those we named F1 and used in all of our experiments. B C shows the gold tag localization to the H K ATPase in the parietal cell from the Fundic gland. We noticed a higher density of staining on the apical pole of the cell in the secretory or vacuolar canaliculi. This may correlate with the fundic regions high basal proton extrusion rates in comparison to the corpus due to the fact that the protein is always at the membrane in the fundic gland whereas in the corpus the receptor is inside the secretory canaliculus until stimulation.

H2 receptor staining was done on both the fundus and corpus to examine the presence and density of the receptor in both the areas of the stomach. We found clear basolateral staining in the corpus glands and could not detect staining in the fundic glands. These results correlate with the lack of effect by histamine in stimulating fundic acid secretion. It was clearly seen that the H2 receptor is absent in the glands of the fundus and present in the corpus data not shown 

Intracellular pH was measured using the pH sensitive dye BCECF and monitored continuously using a real time fluorescence imaging system to identify changes in intracellular pH. Rates of proton efflux were calculated as pH min using a technique that was developed in our laboratory for corpus glands. We measured the change in rate of efflux in the presence and absence of secretagogues.

We incubated individual glands with 100 M histamine for 20 minutes. Histamine was present during the whole superfusion protocol. In the corpus gland we measured a histamine stimulated proton extrusion rate of 0.056 0.008 pH min whereas the basal acid secretion without any secretagogues was 0.0111 0.002 pH min D . In comparison to the corpus the fundus showed even under basal conditions a high proton extrusion rate 0.039 0.009 pH min . This is similar to the histamine induced acid secretion 0.040 0.0079 pH min A B This data shows that there is no effect of histamine on F1 zone glands in comparison to controls.

In the next series we investigated the functional properties of fundic glands according to the neuronal stimulation via ACH. In contrast to histamine there was a noticeable change in proton extrusion rates after stimulation. Although the controls were still actively pumping out protons the glands that were stimulated with 100 M of acetylcholine for 20 minutes during the dye loading and throughout the perfusion. We determined that acetylcholine caused an increase in the rate of alkalinization 0.075 0.0015 pH min vs. controls 0.039 0.009 pH min showing a direct effect of acetylcholine on fundic acid extrusion .

To determine if gastrin could also activate the fundic H K ATPase we conducted studies using pentagastrin a synthetic peptide containing the entire five terminal amino acids of gastrin which is know to cause robust acid secretion in corpus glands. At a dose of 100 M pentagastrin we observed alkalinization rates that were 0.062 0.007 pH min which was similar to acetylcholine in terms of enhancing the rate of proton extrusion from fundic cells .

In the next series of studies we tried to determine if the fundic glands had similar H K ATPase inhibitor profiles as observed in the corpus. We chose the well characterized inhibitor of the gastric H K ATPase omeprazole and the P CAB potassium competitive acid blocker AZD0865..

As shown in A omeprazole did not inhibit acid secretion using the same concentration that completely inhibited secretagogue induced acid secretion in the corpus B . At even a higher dose than what normally inhibits acid secretion in the corpus the fundus continued to extrude protons. The fundic glands were preincubated with 200 M omeprazole and 100 M histamine and then perfused with omeprazole and histamine throughout the entire experiment. Alkalinization rates were 0.045 0.002 pH min compared to only histamine stimulated controls at a rate of 0.042 0.007 pH min. In contrast acid secretion in the corpus glands was abolished by 200 mol omeprazole 0.014 0.002 pHi min. B .

Also shown in C D P CAB AZD0865 effectively inhibits acid secretion in the corpus at a 10 M concentration however at that same concentration the F1 zone still has potassium dependant recovery. In the fundus the intracellular pH increased at a rate of 0.031 0.006 pH min. In the Corpus at the same concentration of 10 M the recovery rate was 0.021 0.008 pH min.

All concentrations are given in Mm. NMDG is N Methyl D Glucosamine all solutions were titrated to pH 7.4 at 37 C. using either NaOH or KOH. NMDG was titrated with HCL.

In this study we have provided evidence that the fundic region of the stomach contains glands that are capable of secreting acid via the gastric H K ATPase. In our study we have for the first time characterized the acid secretory properties of the fundus. We provide morphological immunohistochemical and functional evidence for H K ATPase protein activity in the fundus In our morphological studies we first had to delineate where the fundus began and ended. As it is understood that this region begins at the gastro esophageal junction we decided to take glands from this junction point until the initiation of the greater curve of the fundus. We took tissue sections from what we called the F1 zone starting from the gastro esophageal junction and continued 2 mm distally. We found these glands to be quite different in shape and also in parietal cell like density. To confirm that parietal cells in F1 contain H K ATPase we stained for the and subunit shows the staining for the subunit .

During our investigation of secretagogue induced fundic acid secretion we were able to demonstrate that histamine is not the most potent stimulator of acid secretion in the fundus as it is in the corpus. In fact very little difference was seen in glands that were not stimulated compared to those stimulated with histamine . This result was confirmed by a lack of staining for the H2 receptor in the fundus data not shown . Acetylcholine was the most robust of the three secretagogues in the fundus which may relate to the close proximity of the vagal nerve to the fundic region. As this section of the stomach stretches when food is present there is vagal stimulationwith associated acetylcholine secretion. This finding is especially important when considering clinical problems in obese patients who have gastro esophageal reflux disease GERD . This can be correlated to the benefits patients with sever ulcer disease gain when undergoing a vagotomy after not gaining relief from medical management.

Another interesting finding is the lack of inhibition by omeprazole on fundic acid secretion although they are immunoreactive with antibodies for the gastric H K ATPase. We were unable to inhibit basal or secretagogue histamine induced fundic acid secretion with the proton pump inhibitor omeprazole A at doses that were double that which effectively eliminated all acid secretion in the corpus B . These findings are in direct contrast to our data C D and others findings in glands from the corpusThis finding has an interesting clinical correlate in that there is an increasing number of patients suffering from GERD that are not effectively treated with PPI s.One possible explanation for the lack of omeprazole sensitivity could be that as omeprazole needs to be acid activated a lack of a canaliculi like space would prevent the concentration of acid and potentially prevent the acid activation of the drug. As shown in B C using immunogold tag labeling we see that there is indeed a secretory space and that the pumps appear to line the apical surface of this space. With previous theories of acid secretion came the many dictums for surgical and medical modalities of treatment which focused on the corpus. Of interest is the recent incidence of GERD like symptoms in gastric bypass patients who following the procedure are left only with a small part of the fundus and little to no functional corpus. In those symptomatic patients there has been little to no success using classical PPI swhich now can be possibly be explained by our recent findings. Our findings demonstrate that the fundic region of the stomach is much more than a holding area and in fact can secrete acid in response to secretagogue stimulation furthermore the H K ATPase found in this segment appears insensitive to omeprazole. These results can lead to important new targets for patients that are PPI resistant or have recurrent reflux symptoms in the presence of PPI therapy.

Fundic glands showed a distinct morphology compared to corpus glands elongated and lacking typical bulging parietal cells . Immunofluorescence and subunit of the H K ATPase and immunogold labeling subunit were both positive in the fundic region. Fundic gland proton extrusion rates were stimulated by gastrin and acetylcholine but were not influenced by histamine. Finally acid secretion of stimulated fundic glands could not be inhibited by the H K ATPase inhibitor omeprazole.

The fundic region of the stomach secreted acid via the H K ATPase and was not sensitive to proton pump inhibitors. Our findings demonstrate that the fundic region of the stomach is much more than a holding area and in fact can secrete acid in response to secretagogue stimulation except histamine.

The digestion of food by the stomach requires a complex combination of hormonal and neuronal events. Generally it has been thought that the corpus or body of the stomach secretes acid via the parietal cells and the antrum secretes bicarbonate to neutralize the digestate by raising the pH of the stomach contents. During this process the peristaltic movements of the stomach result in contractions that push the food upward into the fundic section of the stomach where it transits before exiting into the small intestine. In this model of digestion the fundus acts only as a holding zone and is not involved in acid secretion. Classical gastric acid secretion in the corpus occurs when the H K ATPase gets stimulated by secretagogues and begins to secrete protons into the secretory canaliculus after being trafficked to the apical membrane from their cytoplasmic tubulovesicles. The parietal cell has at least three activating receptors on its basolateral membrane i.e. histamine H2 acetylcholine M3 and Gastrin CCK B. It is well accepted that the H2 receptor couples to Gs to activated adenylate cyclase producing cAMP and subsequent activation of cAMP dependant protein kinase. The acetylcholine and gastrin receptor couple through a non Gs system probably Gq to activate phospholipase C producing IP3 and diacylglycerol. Acetylcholine releases intracellular Ca and gastrin activating protein kinase C. After this cascade of intracellular events the parietal cell extrudes protons via the H K ATPase pump which exchanges intracellular H ions for extracellular K ions in an electroneutral ratio.

Recent observations in patients who have undergone gastric bypass surgery present an interesting paradigm namely that only left with a small fundic region postoperatively they still have acid secretion which in some patients leads to reflux symptoms ulcers and enteric content leaks. Of note is that many of these patients have little success in abating the symptoms while on proton pump inhibitor PPI therapy. From these initial clinical observations we raised the question does the fundus play a role in the production of acid and how similar are its properties to corpus secretory proteins. We also were interested in determining fundic sensitivity to classical secretagogues and therefore conducted studies using histamine pentagastrin and acetylcholine.

In the present experiment we have investigated the acid secretory properties of the rat fundus under resting and secretagogue stimulated states furthermore we elucidate fundic response to an inhibitory drug of acid secretion. Our data demonstrate that the fundic region is an active secretory zone in the stomach and contains a gastric H K ATPase that can be stimulated by secretagogues but appears to be insensitive to omeprazole. Zinc therapy according to the present invention is a means to regulate acid release in the fundus region.

