---

title: System and method for accessing features offered by an application server
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for accessing additional features offered by an application server. The additional features are generally regarded as being specific to the application server. According to an embodiment of the application, a communications device obtains information for accessing the additional features. The communications device accesses an additional feature by instructing the application server to execute the additional feature according to the information that has been obtained. In specific implementations, the information for accessing the additional features is provided by an Extensible Markup Language ‘XML’ file.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838818&OS=08838818&RS=08838818
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08838818
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20071220
---
This application claims benefit from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 947 244 filed on Jun. 29 2007 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The application relates to communication protocols and more particularly to accessing communication features offered by an application server using a communication protocol.

Many enterprises are replacing their existing CENTREX Central Exchange or PBX Private Branch Exchange based telephony systems with VoIP Voice over IP Internet Protocol systems based upon SIP Session Initiation Protocol signalling systems. Such systems utilize existing IP infrastructure based upon LAN Local Area Network and WLAN Wireless Local Area Network technologies.

At the same time mobile phones that use Cellular networks such as GSM Global System for Mobile Communications CDMA Code Division Multiple Access and UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System to conduct communications with others inside and outside the enterprise network are being enhanced to provide SIP based communications including VoIP over WLAN access allowing these devices to provide mobile telephony communication capability when within the enterprise network as well as when away from the enterprise network.

Although systems based on SIP are being widely deployed as the common signalling protocol for VoIP telephony there is a lack of standardization in the way SIP is utilized. Also the protocol continues to be developed further with continued introduction of new extensions to SIP. This has led to different versions of SIP with significant differences in the way they are used. These differences include the usage of different SIP headers for conveying the same information or to trigger the same action different call scenarios different message sequences for the same call setup or call feature the use of proprietary or pre standard SIP headers and the use of new extensions to the SIP standards.

These differences create a problem for manufacturers of mobile devices such as mobile phones. Mobile phones manufactured with a version of SIP software that implements an early version of SIP may be sold and attempted to be used on a network that requires a version of SIP software that implements a later SIP standard. It may not be economically viable for vendors of such mobile devices to produce different SIP software for every potentially deployed network SIP usage.

As new application servers are introduced with new features and as new features are added to existing application servers it becomes difficult to update mobile devices to allow them to access these new features without issuing many new versions of the software. Every time a new version of the software is issued the user runs some upgrade program which is both open for error and a distraction to the user. It is often the case that users don t upgrade and so the new features do not get used. Also unless many parallel versions of the software are maintained the software is to support all features on all application servers. This can make the software larger and more complex leading to more software error opportunities and making control of what features a single user may use more complex. If the parallel software version technique is used then there are management issues for the development testing distribution and control of these parallel versions.

Hard coding information on how to access additional features offered by each application server is possible. However this is not a practical solution because the number of additional features for each application server can be numerous and are generally application server specific. Software that hard codes the information on how to access additional features offered by each application server could succumb to frequent revisions in order to properly support the additional features for each application server. Some embodiments of the application provide for a system and method for obtaining information for accessing additional features. Accessing additional features is performed based on the information that has been obtained. Therefore there is no need to hard code the information for accessing the additional features.

According to a broad aspect of the application there is provided a method in a communications device comprising the communications device accessing first features offered by an application server using a communication protocol the communications device obtaining information for accessing at least one additional feature offered by the application server for which the communications device was not previously configured to access and the communications device accessing an additional feature of the at least one additional feature by instructing the application server to execute the additional feature according to the information that has been obtained wherein the information comprises a non executable editable file that describes how to access the at least one additional feature offered by the application server.

According to another broad aspect of the application there is provided a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions stored thereon for execution on a processor so as to implement the method summarised above.

According to another broad aspect of the application there is provided a communications device comprising a processor and a feature accessing function for accessing first features offered by an application server using a communication protocol obtaining information for accessing at least one additional feature offered by the application server for which the communications device was not previously configured to access and accessing an additional feature of the at least one additional feature by instructing the application server to execute the additional feature according to the information that has been obtained wherein the information comprises a non executable editable file that describes how to access the at least one additional feature offered by the application server.

Referring now to shown is a block diagram of an example wireless system . The wireless system has a wireless network and a mobile device . There may be other mobile devices but they are not shown for sake of simplicity. The mobile device has a processor connected to a wireless access radio and a feature accessing function . The connections between the processor and the other components may be direct connections or indirect connections in which there is one or more intervening component not shown . The mobile device may have other components but they are not shown for sake of simplicity. The wireless network has a plurality of application servers and may have other application servers and or other components but they are not shown for sake of simplicity. In the illustrated example the application servers include a media server a PBX and a web server . The media server has media features A and additional media features B. The PBX has VoIP features A and additional VoIP features B. The web server has web service features A and additional web service features B.

In operation the mobile device communicates with the wireless network using its wireless access radio . The wireless communication is over a wireless connection between the mobile device and the wireless network . The communication with the wireless network might for example be between the mobile device and one of the application servers . In the illustrated example it is assumed that the mobile device is involved in a SIP call with the media server . During the SIP call the mobile device can access the media features A offered by the media server using a typical SIP. However the mobile device might not be able to access the additional media features B offered by the media server using the typical SIP. This is because the additional media features B are specific to the media server . The manner in which the additional media features B are to be accessed might be unknown to the mobile device . Prior to becoming configured in the manner detailed below the mobile device is not configured to access the additional media features B. Note that the other application servers similarly have additional features B B that are application server specific.

According to an embodiment of the application the feature accessing function of the mobile device obtains information for accessing the additional media features offered by the media server for which the mobile device was not previously configured to access. The information might for example be obtained directly from the media server . Once the information is obtained the feature accessing function of the mobile device is configured for accessing the additional media features B. The mobile device instructs the media server to execute a selected additional feature according to the information that has been obtained. This might involve the mobile device using the same SIP but in a manner for which the mobile device was previously not configured to use. Alternatively might involve the mobile device using an extension of the SIP in accordance with the information that has been obtained. In any case the selected additional feature is executed by the media server .

There are many possibilities for the media features A and the additional media features B offered by the media server . The media features A might for example include a video sharing application a web conference application etc. The additional media features B might for example include a whisper feature which provides a way for an Executive Assistant EA to break into a conversation between the Executive and a third party in such a way that the Executive will hear the EA but the third party will not while the conversation between the executive and the third party continues undisturbed. Some additional features might for example include one or more of group calling handling multiple calls and forwarding. It is to be understood that numerous other additional features are possible.

Note that the additional features B B of the other application servers might be quite different and might be accessed using a different type of communication protocol altogether. For instance the additional features offered by the web server include web service based features B which are accessed using a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . Other possible communication protocols for accessing various additional features include a SIP a SOAP a Remote Method Invocation RMI Remote Procedure Call RPC a Computer Telephony Interface CTI an ECMA 323 web service protocol a Media Server Markup Language MSML a Telephony Application Programming Interface TAPI a Java Telephony Application Programming Interface JTAPI and any appropriate proprietary protocol.

In the illustrated example the feature accessing function is implemented as software and is executed on the processor . However more generally the feature accessing function may be implemented as software hardware firmware or any appropriate combination thereof. In some implementations the feature accessing function is provided with protocol libraries that provide basic building blocks for using communication protocols for example when accessing the media features A. Alternatively the basic building blocks for using communication protocols may be implemented in any appropriate manner or provided to the feature accessing function by some component external to the feature accessing function .

In specific software implementations the JAVA programming language and the JAVA Application Programmer Interface API are used. This allows Call Processing Applications to be developed that can run on multiple platform architectures and that can run using different call signalling protocols. For example the Java Telephony API JTAPI 1.3 provides a set of APIs that can be used to implement both the basic call model and also advanced call features. Other software implementations can include C C Pascal Perl etc. Note that software implementations can be compiled e.g. C C Pascal or interpretative e.g. Perl .

The illustrated example presented above with reference to involves a wireless network. It is to be understood that the wireless network would have any appropriate components suitable for a wireless network. Note that the wireless network may include wires in spite of having components for wireless communication. The components of the wireless network are implementation specific and may depend on the type of wireless network. The wireless network might for example be a Data Wide Network an 802.11 Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi network an 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX network or a cellular network. Examples of appropriate cellular networks include an Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network and a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network. Although the examples focus on wireless communication it is to be understood that embodiments of the invention are also applicable to non wireless communication systems. In such embodiments communication devices may be provided in place of mobile devices. Note that there is no need for such communication devices to have wireless access radios for wireless communication.

Referring now to shown is a flowchart of an example method of accessing additional features offered by an application server. This method may be implemented in a communications device for example by the feature accessing function of the mobile device shown in . More generally this method may be implemented in any appropriate communications device regardless of whether the communications device is wireless.

At step the communications device accesses features offered by an application server using a communication protocol. The features might for example be media features that are accessed using a standard SIP. At step the communications device obtains information for accessing one or more additional features offered by the application server for which the communications device was not previously configured to access. In some implementations as indicated at step the communications device displays a representation for each additional feature. The communications device might for example display one or more menus within a Graphic User Interface GUI based on the information. In some implementations this involves dynamically updating an existing GUI e.g. text and or graphics so as to display the representation for each of the at least one additional feature. This allows the user to view the additional features and make a selection. At step the communications device receives user input for selecting one of the additional features. At step the communications device accesses the additional feature by instructing the application server to execute the additional feature according to the information that has been obtained. This might involve the communications device using the same communication protocol but in a manner for which the communications device was previously not configured to use. Alternatively might involve the communications device using an extension of the communication protocol in accordance with the information that has been obtained.

There are many possibilities for the information for accessing the additional features. In some implementations the information is provided by a non executable editable file that describes how to access the additional features offered by the application server and is stored on the communications device. The non executable editable file typically uses a non programming language for example a markup language. The non executable editable file might for example be an XML file which might be used to describe the network addresses and ports at which the new feature may be located the specific protocol steps used to access the new feature the contents of the individual signals that are part of the protocol modifications to the protocol such as new custom headers or values and or additions to the menus offered to the user that are used to access the new feature. Note that non executable editable files such as XML files can be edited by an administrator on the network side without having to change any compiled software resident on the communications device. The format of the non executable editable file is such that programming knowledge is not required to enable a communications device to access a new feature on an application server and thus may be done by staff not skilled in programming communications devices. In some implementations the communications device downloads the non executable editable file from a distribution point on the network. In other implementations the communications device automatically receives the non executable editable file as a push from the network. Other implementations are possible.

In some implementations the communications device receives additional information for displaying a representation of the additional features. In some implementations the additional information for displaying the representation of the additional features is received together with the information for accessing the additional features. For example in specific implementations an XML file is received that includes both the information for accessing the additional features and the information for displaying a representation of the additional features. The information for displaying a representation of the additional features might for example include information for displaying a menu for identifying the additional features. The menu might be a new menu altogether or form part of an existing menu. In other implementations the additional information for displaying the representation of the additional features is received separately from the information for accessing the additional features. Other implementations are possible.

In the examples present above with reference to the application server involved in the communication might for example be a media server. In this case the communication protocol would be based on SIP. Alternatively the application server involved in the communication might be a PBX. In this case the communication protocol would also be based on SIP. Alternatively application server involved in the communication might be a web server. In this case the communication protocol would be a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP .

Referring now to shown is a block diagram of an example GUI of a communications device not shown . The GUI might form part of any appropriate communications device for example the mobile device shown in . The GUI has a display which might for example include one or more of a Liquid Crystal Display LCD a Light Emitting Diode LED or any other appropriate display device. The GUI also has a user input which might for example include one or more of a keypad a scroll wheel a button and any other appropriate input device. The GUI may have other components but they are not shown for sake of simplicity.

In operation the display displays a representation of first features A offered by an application server. The first features are not generally considered to be specific to the application server as other application servers offer the first features. In this example it is assumed that the application server also offers additional features which are generally considered to be specific to the application server. Upon the communications device obtaining information for accessing the additional features for which the communications device was not previously configured to access the display displays a representation of the additional features B. Therefore the display displays a representation of all features A B i.e. both the first features A and the additional features B .

A user can view the features offered by the application server by viewing the display . Once the user decides which feature the communications device should access the user uses the user input to select a selected feature. The selected feature is selected so that the communications device accesses the selected feature. If the selected feature is one of the first features then the communications device instructs the applications server to execute the selected feature using a typical communication protocol. However if the selected feature is one of the additional features for which the communications device was not previously configured to access then the communications device instructs the applications server to execute the selected feature in accordance with the information that has been obtained. This might involve the communications device using the same communications protocol but in a manner for which the communications device was previously not configured to use. Alternatively this might involve the communications device using an extension of the communications protocol in accordance with the information that has been obtained.

There are many possibilities for the information for accessing the at least one additional feature. Examples have been provided above and are therefore not repeated here. For implementations where the information is provided by an XML file the representation of the at least one additional feature B that is displayed by the display might for example include a menu. In some implementations the XML file provides both the information for accessing the additional features and additional information for displaying a representation for the additional features. In this case the XML file provides the information used for displaying the menu which allows the user to select an additional feature. Other implementations are possible.

Referring now to shown is a block diagram of another mobile device that may implement any of the mobile device methods described herein. The mobile device is shown with specific components for implementing features similar to those of the mobile device of . It is to be understood that the mobile device is shown with very specific details for illustrative purposes only.

A processing device a microprocessor is shown schematically as connected between a keyboard and a display . The microprocessor is a type of processor with features similar to those of the processor of the mobile device shown in . The microprocessor controls operation of the display as well as overall operation of the mobile device in response to actuation of keys on the keyboard by a user.

The mobile device has a housing that may be elongated vertically or may take on other sizes and shapes including clamshell housing structures . The keyboard may include a mode selection key or other hardware or software for switching between text entry and telephony entry.

In addition to the microprocessor other parts of the mobile device are shown schematically. These include a communications subsystem a short range communications subsystem the keyboard and the display along with other input output devices including a set of LEDS a set of auxiliary I O devices a serial port a speaker and a microphone as well as memory devices including a flash memory and a Random Access Memory RAM and various other device subsystems . The mobile device may have a battery to power the active elements of the mobile device . The mobile device is in some embodiments a two way radio frequency RF communication device having voice and data communication capabilities. In addition the mobile device in some embodiments has the capability to communicate with other computer systems via the Internet.

Operating system software executed by the microprocessor is in some embodiments stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory but may be stored in other types of memory devices such as a read only memory ROM or similar storage element. In addition system software specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Communication signals received by the mobile device may also be stored to the RAM .

The microprocessor in addition to its operating system functions enables execution of software applications on the mobile device . A predetermined set of software applications that control basic device operations such as a voice communications module A and a data communications module B may be installed on the mobile device during manufacture. In addition a personal information manager PIM application module C may also be installed on the mobile device during manufacture. The PIM application is in some embodiments capable of organizing and managing data items such as e mail calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. The PIM application is also in some embodiments capable of sending and receiving data items via a wireless network . In some embodiments the data items managed by the PIM application are seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the device user s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system. As well additional software modules illustrated as another software module N may be installed during manufacture. One or more of the modules A B C N of the flash memory can be configured for implementing features similar to those of the feature accessing function of the mobile device shown in .

Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through the communication subsystem and possibly through the short range communications subsystem . The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and one or more antennas illustrated as a receive antenna and a transmit antenna . In addition the communication subsystem also includes a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP and local oscillators LOs . The communication subsystem having the transmitter and the receiver is an implementation of a wireless access radio with features similar to those of the wireless access radio of the mobile device shown in . The specific design and implementation of the communication subsystem is dependent upon the communication network in which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example the communication subsystem of the mobile device may be designed to operate with the Mobitex DataTAC or General Packet Radio Service GPRS mobile data communication networks and also designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communication networks such as Advanced Mobile Phone Service AMPS Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Personal Communications Service PCS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM etc. The communication subsystem may also be designed to operate with an 802.11 Wi Fi network and or an 802.16 WiMAX network. Other types of data and voice networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with the mobile device .

Network access may vary depending upon the type of communication system. For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC networks mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique Personal Identification Number PIN associated with each device. In GPRS networks however network access is typically associated with a subscriber or user of a device. A GPRS device therefore typically has a subscriber identity module commonly referred to as a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card in order to operate on a GPRS network.

When network registration or activation procedures have been completed the mobile device may send and receive communication signals over the communication network . Signals received from the communication network by the receive antenna are routed to the receiver which provides for signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of the received signal allows the DSP to perform more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding. In a similar manner signals to be transmitted to the network are processed e.g. modulated and encoded by the DSP and are then provided to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the communication network or networks via the transmit antenna .

In addition to processing communication signals the DSP provides for control of the receiver and the transmitter . For example gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or web page download is processed by the communication subsystem and is input to the microprocessor . The received signal is then further processed by the microprocessor for an output to the display or alternatively to some other auxiliary I O devices . A device user may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard and or some other auxiliary I O device such as a touchpad a rocker switch a thumb wheel or some other type of input device. The composed data items may then be transmitted over the communication network via the communication subsystem .

In a voice communication mode overall operation of the device is substantially similar to the data communication mode except that received signals are output to a speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile device . In addition the display may also be utilized in voice communication mode for example to display the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The short range communications subsystem enables communication between the mobile device and other proximate systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the short range communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

Numerous modifications and variations of the present application are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the application may be practised otherwise than as specifically described herein.

