---

title: System and method for interactive marketing to consumers
abstract: A system and method for interactive marketing to consumers and, more particularly, to a system and method for marketing merchandise to consumers in an interactive retail environment. The method includes detecting a disturbance in an area and sending information related to the disturbance to a back end merchandising system. The method further includes retrieving relevant information related to the detected disturbance from the back end merchandising system and displaying the relevant information on a display surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08376226&OS=08376226&RS=08376226
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08376226
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070403
---
The invention generally relates to a system and method for interactive marketing to consumers and more particularly to a system and method for marketing merchandise to consumers in an interactive retail environment.

Marketing of merchandise is ubiquitous in today s retailing environment. Typically marketing of merchandise may take many forms ranging from print advertising to television advertisements to mass mailings etc. By way of example print ads may take the form of direct mailings newspapers magazines journals press releases posters billboards etc.

Additionally in the retail environment it has become common to advertise in the store itself by way of signs posters and other print media. In recent years though with the advent of new technologies it has become common for retail stores to display merchandise to the consumer directly on a static display. In this manner retail companies have been leveraging information technology IT to market and sell to consumers.

A significant problem with the way that these technologies are currently being explored is that they tend to be passive and rely on consumer motivation. Also these technologies do not provide a useful experience for the consumer. For example current uses of IT to market to consumers in retail settings are noticeably passive in nature. Examples such as plasma LCD displays push advertisements for kiosks which provide merchandise directories or limited guided selling tools in stores. Also such technologies operate in fixed locations and rely entirely upon the consumer to actively engage them while providing limited incentive for engagement. In a retail environment such passivity makes little sense from a return on investment perspective.

Accordingly there exists a need in the art to overcome the deficiencies and limitations described hereinabove.

In a first aspect of the invention a method comprises detecting a disturbance in an area and sending information related to the disturbance to a back end merchandising system. The method further includes retrieving relevant information related to the detected disturbance from the back end merchandising system and displaying the relevant information on a display surface.

In another aspect of the invention the method comprises providing a computer infrastructure being operable to detect a merchandise in an area send information related to the merchandise to a back end merchandising system retrieve information related to the merchandise from the back end merchandising system and display the information on a display surface.

In yet another aspect of the invention a system comprising a server has a database containing data associated with merchandise and or a consumer. A hardware and or software component provides information to the consumer based on detected merchandise and or consumer identification.

In another aspect of the invention a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having readable program code embodied in the medium is provided. The computer program product includes at least one component to detect a merchandise in an area send information related to the merchandise to a back end merchandising system retrieve information related to the merchandise from the back end merchandising system and display the information on a display surface including recommendations. The display surface is configured to provide interactivity with the consumer including selection of merchandise.

The invention generally relates to a system and method for interactive marketing to consumers and more particularly to a system and method for marketing merchandise to consumers in an interactive retail environment. In embodiments the system and method uses in combination with known radio frequency RF technologies an interactive display configured to be projected onto any surface delivering a useful proactive consumer experience for marketing directly to consumers in a retail environment. The system and method can be implemented using a single computer over any distributed network or stand alone server for example. In embodiments the system is configured to be directly integrated into preexisting back end inventory management systems.

In contrast to the current marketing technologies in embodiments the system and method of the invention utilizes spaces in which consumers are not meant to focus on merchandise products per se. For example in implementation the system and method of the invention may be implemented in changing rooms cashier lines and interstitial spaces to operate as the point of engagement. Thus the invention uses such spaces in stores that are not traditionally associated with marketing to consumers. This approach does not detract from the merchandise nor will it distract the consumer in a purchasing area. Also the approach of the invention does not attempt to substitute a virtual experience of a given merchandise for an actual experience. Instead the approach of the invention takes advantage of ubiquitous computing devices to drive up sell and cross sell opportunities in spaces that are generally sales neutral.

In embodiments the system and method is implemented using for example the Everywhere Display manufactured and sold by International Business Machines Corp. in combination with RFID technologies. Everywhere Display and IBM are trademarks of IBM Corp. in the United States other countries or both. By way of example the Everywhere Display can provide computer access in public spaces facilitate navigation in retail environments bring computational resources to different areas of the retail environment and facilitate the marketing of consumer goods through an interactive displaying environment.

In operation unlike in a passive display the system and method of the invention utilizes a projection system that has a pan tilt mirror to deflect light from a projector on to various surfaces and locations in a given environment. Simultaneously a pan tilt zoom camera can detect consumer interaction with the projected interface. Thus unlike a kiosk or passive display device the system and method of the invention is not dependent upon location and may be activated by interaction from the consumer e.g. when a consumer passes into detection range . Also the ubiquitous display of user interfaces throughout the retail environment allows consumer interaction and proactive marketing to consumers to take place anywhere in the retail environment rather than in a fixed location such as a kiosk. This in conjunction with known RFID and wireless technologies provides a proactive consumer experience for marketing directly to consumers in the retail environment.

The processor executes computer program code which is stored in memory A and or storage system B. While executing computer program code the processor can read and or write data from look up tables which are the basis for the execution of the commands to be performed on the computer to from memory A storage system B and or I O interface . The bus provides a communications link between each of the components in the computing device . The I O device can comprise any device that enables an individual to interact with the computing device or any device that enables the computing device to communicate with one or more other computing devices using any type of communications link. For example the I O device may be an interactive surface or display implemented by the Everywhere Display .

The computing device can comprise any general purpose computing article of manufacture capable of executing computer program code installed thereon e.g. a personal computer server handheld device etc. . However it is understood that the computing device is only representative of various possible equivalent computing devices that may perform the processes described herein. To this extent in embodiments the functionality provided by computing device can be implemented by a computing article of manufacture that includes any combination of general and or specific purpose hardware and or computer program code. In each embodiment the program code and hardware can be created using standard programming and engineering techniques respectively.

Similarly the computer infrastructure is only illustrative of various types of computer infrastructures for implementing the invention. For example in embodiments the computer infrastructure comprises two or more computing devices e.g. a server cluster that communicate over any type of communications link such as a network a shared memory or the like to perform the process described herein. These computing devices can be positioned at various locations throughout a retail environment providing the ability to interact with the consumer throughout such retail environment. Further while performing the process described herein one or more computing devices in the computer infrastructure can communicate with one or more other computing devices external to computer infrastructure using any type of communications link. The communications link can comprise any combination of wired and or wireless links any combination of one or more types of networks e.g. the Internet a wide area network a local area network a virtual private network etc. and or utilize any combination of transmission techniques and protocols.

In embodiments the invention provides a business method that performs the process steps of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to perform the processes described herein. In this case the service provider can create deploy maintain and support etc. a computer infrastructure that performs the process steps of the invention for one or more customers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the customer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

Still referring to a camera is connected to the computing device and is configured to capture gestures or motions of the consumer and provide such gestures or motions to the computing device for reconciliation and execution of commands as discussed in greater detail below . As should be recognized the computing device may be the computing device as shown in . The computing device may also communicate with existing back end merchandising systems of the retail environment as discussed below.

The camera is preferably a CCD based camera which is configured and located to capture motions and the like of the consumer. The gestures or motions may be representative of commands provided by the consumer. These commands may include for example requests for merchandise assistance by a sales associate input of personal or login information etc. The camera and other devices may be connected to the computing device via any known networking system as discussed above. Further the system includes a radio frequency RF receiver which is configured to receive RF signals from for example RF identification ID tags attached to merchandise. The RFID can include merchandise information such as size color manufacturer or other features of interest. The RFID tag can also be used to monitor and track the consumer throughout the retail environment via the RF signals.

In embodiments the system and method of the invention may recognize the consumer by for example login information facial recognition or other identification method e.g. retina scan etc. . In addition the system may track movement of the consumer via the RFID information on any merchandise held by the consumer. This information may be used in order to customize the interactive marketing to the consumer by for example providing recommendations to the consumer i related to the interests of the consumers ii based on past purchases iii current purchase of merchandise etc. In this manner the retailing environment is configured to directly market merchandise to individual consumers. Also by using such a proactive marketing approach the consumer can be a passive participant while still obtaining pertinent merchandise information which is of interest to the specific consumer. This can be used to envelop the consumer in an ambient computing environment.

In embodiments the services layer includes six modules . For example a vision interface module vi may be responsible for recognizing gestures and converting this information to the application e.g. program being manipulated by the gestures . A projection module pj may handle the display of visual information via the projector on a specified surface while a camera module sc provides the video input via the camera from the surface of interest to the vision interface vi . The camera as discussed above will send the gestures and other motions of the consumer. Interaction with the interface by the consumer comprises orchestrating the vision interface projection module and camera module through a sequence of synchronous and asynchronous commands which are capable of being implemented by those of skill in the art. Other modules present in the services layer include a 3D environment modeling module a consumer localization module and a geometric reasoning module

The 3D environment modeling module can be a version of standard 3D modeling software. The 3D environment modeling module can support basic geometric objects built out of planar surfaces and cubes and allows importing of more complex models. In embodiments the 3D environment modeling module stores the model in XML format with objects as tags and annotations as attributes. The 3D environment modeling module is also designed to be accessible to the geometric reasoning module as discussed below.

The geometric reasoning module is a geometric reasoning engine that operates on a model created by a modeling toolkit which in embodiments is a version of standard 3D modeling software. The geometric reasoning module enables automatic selection of the appropriate display and interaction zones hotspots based on criteria such as proximity of the zone to the consumer and non occlusion of the zone by the consumer or by other objects. In this manner gestures can be used to manipulate and execute program commands and or actions. Applications or other modules can query the geometric reasoning module F through a defined XML interface.

In embodiments the geometric reasoning module receives a consumer position and a set of criteria specified as desired ranges of display zone properties and returns all display zones which satisfy the specified criteria. The geometric reasoning module may also have a look up table or access thereto for determining gestures of a consumer which may be used to implement the actions or commands associated with a certain application. The properties for a display zone may include amongst other properties the following 

The consumer localization module is in embodiments a real time camera based tracking to determine the position of the consumer in the environment as well as in embodiments gestures of the consumer. In embodiments the consumer localization module can be configured to track the consumer s motion to for example move the display to the consumer or in further embodiments recognize gestures of the consumer for implementing actions or commands.

In embodiments the tracking technique is based on motion shape and or flesh tone cues. In embodiments a differencing operation on consecutive frames of the incoming video can be performed. A morphological closing operation then removes noise and fills up small gaps in the detected motion regions. A standard contour tracing algorithm then yields the bounding contours of the segmented regions. The contours are smoothed and the orientation and curvature along the contour is computed. The shape is analyze for each contour to check if it could be a head or other body part or object of interest which is tracked by the system and method of the invention.

In the example of a head the system looks for curvature changes corresponding to a head neck silhouette e.g. concavities at the neck points and convexity at the top of the head . In embodiments sufficient flesh tone color within the detected head region is detected by matching the color of each pixel within the head contour with a model of flesh tone colors in normalized red green RG space. This technique detects multiple heads in real time. In embodiments multiple cameras with overlapping views to triangulate and estimate the 3D position of the consumer are possible. This same technique can be used to recognize gestures in order for the consumer to interact with the display.

In embodiments the integration layer provides a set of classes that enable a JAVA application to interact with the services. Java and all Java based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems Inc. in the United States other countries or both. The integration layer in embodiments contains a set of JAVA wrapper objects for all objects and commands along with classes enabling synchronous and asynchronous communication with modules in the services layer . The integration layer in embodiments mediates the interaction among the services layer modules . For example through a single instruction to the interaction manager a JAVA application can start an interaction that sends commands to the vision interface the projection module and the mirror defining instantiating activating and managing a complex interactive display interaction. Similarly the integration layer for example can coordinate the geometric reasoning module and the 3D environment modeler in a manner that returns the current consumer position along with all occluded surfaces to the application at a specified interval.

In embodiments the application layer comprises a set of classes and tools for defining and running JAVA applications and a repository of reusable interactions. In embodiments each interaction is a reusable class that is available to any application. An application class for example is a container for composing multiple interactions maintaining application state during execution and controlling the sequence of interactions through the help of a sequence manager . Other tools may also be implemented such as for example a calibrator tool that allows a developer to calibrate the vision interface module the projection module and the camera module for a particular application.

In embodiments the consumer interacts with the projected display by using hand gestures over the projected surface as if the hands for example were a computer mouse. Techniques described above such as for example using the geometric reasoning module or the consumer localization module can be implemented to recognize such gesturing. By way of non limiting illustration the geometric reasoning module may use an occlusion mask which indicates the parts of a display zone occluded by objects such as for example hand gestures of the consumer.

More specifically in embodiments the camera may perform three basic steps i detecting when the consumer is pointing ii tracking where the consumer is pointing and iii detecting salient events such as a button touch from the pointing trajectory and gestures of the consumer. This may be performed for example by detecting an occlusion of the projected image over a certain zone such as for example an icon or pull down menu. This information is then provided to the computer which then reconciles such gesture with a look up table for example.

In particular shows a process flow diagram describing a scenario in which a consumer interacts with the system of the invention. The swim diagram of includes four swim lanes . In particular swim lane shows consumer actions swim lane shows actions performed by a sales associate swim lane shows actions performed by the interactive system e.g. Everywhere Display and swim lane shows actions related to a back end system integrated with the components described herein. The back end system can be any database and associated computing system which includes merchandise information. The back end system also includes the capabilities to interact with the interactive system and or the sales associate via a handheld wireless computing device. As should be understood the back end system uses metadata to make recommendations to consumers in addition to size and stocking information.

At step the process begins. Step may include for example the consumer entering a changing room or other area of the retailing environment. At step the camera of the interactive system detects the consumer. At this step the system may also detect any merchandise which the consumer may have selected for purchase or otherwise has some interest etc. This may be accomplished via an RFID on the merchandise which transmits a signal to the RF receiver of the system. The RFID and any pertinent consumer information is sent to the back end system. In embodiments the system of the invention can also track consumer movement throughout the retail environment via the RFID on merchandise. In this manner the system and method of the invention may provide messages to the consumer about certain merchandise in the retail environment which is in close proximity to the consumer and which may be of interest to the consumer based on the merchandise currently being held by the consumer.

The back end system may be any existing inventory tracking system with the capability of communicating with the interactive system as well as a sales associate via a wireless hand held device. In embodiments the back end system includes a database of merchandise information which may include cross referencing information between merchandise product lines etc. for future recommendation to the consumer. The back end system may also include consumer information which is imported into the back end system. The consumer information may be provided by the consumer via surveys or other information gathering method. The consumer information may include for example clothing size color preferences merchandise type preferences brand names etc. economic status to a host of other information related to the tastes and preferences of the consumer. This information may be cross referenced to merchandise information for providing recommendations to the consumer.

At step the back end system sends information to the interactive system to display to the consumer. In embodiments the consumer may interact with the display opting to select certain selections which in turn are provided to the back end system. Information may include product information recommendations for purchase etc. Product information may include for example available sizes available colors number in stock and or recommendations of other products etc. Selections provided by the consumer similarly may include size color or other merchandise provided as a recommendation by the back end system.

At step the device displays the retrieved information to the consumer. At step the consumer may interact with the display opting to select a new product based upon the provided information. At step the consumer may choose to have a store associate deliver the item directly to them or retrieve it themselves. If the consumer opts to retrieve the merchandise the process continues with the flow of . If the consumer opts to have a store associate deliver selected item then the flow continues at step .

At step the interactive device registers the selection and relays it to the backend. At step the selected merchandise is located via RFID. The process sends an alert to a wireless handheld device of the store associate closest in proximity to the merchandise at step . The system may determine closest proximity using many methods such as for example GPS technology. The information presented to the store associate may include the location of the merchandise on a floor map and location of the consumer. At step the store associate receives the alert and retrieves the merchandise using for example the floor map received from the back end system. At step the consumer accepts the merchandise from the store associate. The process ends at step .

At step the consumer makes a determination to personally retrieve the merchandise. This interaction may be performed by a gesture such as for example a motion which is indicative of a button depression displayed on the interactive display surface. If the consumer decides not to personally retrieve the merchandise the process will continue with step of .

If the consumer decides to personally retrieve the merchandise the process continues to step . At step the system of the invention will relay the information to the back end system. At step the back end system will determine the location of the merchandise of interest and send a floor map with the location of the merchandise to the consumer. At step a floor map will be displayed to the consumer which will include the location of the merchandise of interest. In embodiments the floor map may be displayed at several locations throughout the retail environment providing the consumer with the route to the merchandise of interest. At step the consumer views the floor map. At step the process ends.

While the invention has been described in terms of embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modifications and in the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

