---

title: Low power active matrix display
abstract: Described herein are systems and methods for stress avoidance and stress compensation in low power Liquid Crystal Displays (LCDs). In an exemplary embodiment, two or more transistors in series are used to hold charge on an LCD pixel. To avoid negative stress on the transistors, the transistors are alternately driven to an “off” state so that no one transistor sees a long “off” time. In another embodiment, stress on transistors of a display circuit are measured and controlled negative stress is applied to the transistors to compensate for the measured stress.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08477092&OS=08477092&RS=08477092
owner: Store Electronic Systems SA
number: 08477092
owner_city: Argenteuil
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20071203
---
This application claims the benefit of Provisional Application No. 60 868 250 filed on Dec. 1 2006 Provisional Application No. 60 884 155 filed on Jan. 9 2007 Provisional Application No. 60 893 336 filed on Mar. 6 2007 and Provisional Application No. 60 894 883 filed on Mar. 14 2007.

Low power displays are essential system components of most mobile electronic devices. The display subsystem is often one of the largest consumers of battery power as well as one of the most expensive components in many of these devices. The display industry has made continuous progress improving the visual performance power consumption and cost through device and system architecture innovations. However there is a class of important applications that require additional significant improvements in power and cost to become technically feasible and financially viable.

The dominant display technology for mobile devices computer monitors and flat panel TVs is currently amorphous silicon hydrogenated thin film transistor a Si H TFT liquid crystal also known generally as active matrix LCD technology. Advanced manufacturing technologies support a highly efficient worldwide production engine with capacity in the tens of millions of square meters of flat panel displays per year. The most common system architecture today consists of a simple array of TFT pixels on a glass panel that are driven by off glass driver ICs. Each row and column of the TFT pixel array requires a driver pin in the conventional off glass driver arrangement. Thousands of high voltage driver pins are needed even for relatively modest display resolutions. For a large display modules e.g. as found in a 37 diagonal LCD TV the cost of the driver ICs as a percentage of the overall display module cost is relatively low e.g. 10 . For small displays however which increasingly require high resolution fine pitch pixels the cost of driver ICs dominates the TFT module cost.

It has long been a goal of the flat panel industry to integrate the drive electronics onto the flat panel substrate using native TFT transistors to replace some or all of the functions conventionally handled in off glass driver ICs. One significant barrier to integrating driver circuits is the poor performance of the a Si H TFT devices. Compared to single grain silicon CMOS technology a Si TFTs have very low electrical mobility which limits the speed and drive capability of the transistors on the glass. Additionally the a Si TFT transistors can accumulate large threshold voltage shifts and subthreshold slope degradations over time and can only meet product lifetime requirements by imposing strict constraints on the on off duty cycle and bias voltages of the transistors. Electrical Instability of Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film Transistors for Active Matrix Liquid Crystal Displays and Effect of Temperature and Illumination on the Instability of a Si H Thin Film Transistors under AC Gate Bias Stress give a good overview of the gate bias stress induced threshold shifts and subthreshold slope degradations seen in a Si H TFTs.

Any integrated a Si driver scheme has to address the threshold shift due to bias stress that is seen when positive and negative gate voltages are applied to the TFT devices. Because the positive and negative stress accumulation processes are due to fundamentally different device physics phenomena they have very different accumulation rates and sensitivities to gate drive waveforms. To first order within the range of driving waveforms seen in typical flat panel refresh circuitry positive stress is not strongly dependent on the frequency content of the gate waveform and accumulates relatively rapidly as a function of the integrated on time the gate sees. As positive stress increases the voltage threshold of the TFT device is typically increased. TFT circuits typically have a maximum allowable positive stress beyond which the threshold shifts become too large for proper function.

Negative stress in contrast is very frequency dependent accumulating more slowly at higher frequencies and typically manifests as both a negative threshold shift and a subthreshold slope degradation. To accumulate significant negative stress the gate of a typical a Si TFT needs an unbroken stretch of negative gate voltage e.g. 20 ms or more for typical a Si H TFT devices . In conventionally scanned TFT flat panel displays the gate voltage is positive only for a very small time e.g. one line time about 15 us every 16.600 ms frame about 0.1 duty cycle and negative for the rest of the frame period e.g. 16.585 ms or about 99.9 of the frame period . The positive and negative gate voltage levels for such a conventional a Si panel are typically chosen to balance the positive and negative stress effects to achieve a long operating life e.g. 100 k hours at 70 C. . Each stress component positive and negative taken on its own typically results in a much shorter operational life e.g. as short as 10 k hours only the fine tuned balance of positive and negative stress achieves the desired operating lifetime. Developing integrated column and row drivers for a Si TFT technology is therefore very problematic as the stress impact of duty cycle voltage and frequency content of all the internal signals must be considered individually. As a result only the simplest logic structures e.g. shift registers with low duty cycles and large threshold shift margins have been implemented in a Si.

Another integration constraint for a Si H TFTs is the lack of a complementary device e.g. a P type FET in conventional a Si processes which is necessary for more complex logic functions and higher integration.

Despite these limitations integrated drivers have been fabricated using a Si technology with limited success. Reliable Integrated a Si Select Line Driver for 2.2 in. QVGA TFT LCD describes a display with integrated select row line drivers while functional the reported lifetime is only 20 000 hrs about 2.3 yrs with a threshold shift of 15V indicating that a substantial design voltage margin i.e. 15V is required which increases system power and driver IC voltage range significantly. Additional work reported in High Resolution Integrated a Si Row Driver Circuits Reliable Integrated a Si Select Line Driver for 2.2 in. QVGA TFT LCD and Design of integrated Drivers with Amorphous Silicon TFTs for Small Displays. Basic Concepts indicates some progress with integrated a Si TFT row scanning circuits at high voltages and low duty cycles but substantial integration of both row and column drivers in a Si with reasonable device lifetime has not been achieved to date. The display drive techniques and circuits described herein address this need for higher integration of driver functions using on glass TFT devices while substantially reducing the deleterious effects of bias stress.

To overcome the a Si device limitations low temperature polysilicon LTPS processing has been developed to provide transistors with higher mobilities and much better stability under stress conditions that can successfully integrate driver IC functions onto the flat panel substrate. However the additional processing steps e.g. laser rapid thermal annealing expensive equipment e.g. for finer lithography and increased mask count approximately twice the mask count of an a Si H TFT process raise the cost of an LTPS substrate significantly above an a Si H TFT substrate. Hence LTPS usage is generally considered economical only in high resolution small screen applications where the higher cost is outweighed by the integration savings and feature benefits e.g. increased brightness reduced form factor higher dot pitch .

Even with improved devices such as LTPS and driver integration the power consumption of LCDs is often too high for a significant class of applications that require a constantly active display. This class of displays is primarily used in a reflective mode to conserve power although operation with device generated lighting e.g. backlight or sidelight is often a product requirement. Numerous applications such as a mobile phone s secondary or outer display general public signage numerous consumer devices e.g. MP3 players alarm clocks etc. electronic books retail electronic shelf labels etc. often require displays that show relatively static information but remain visible for the majority of the time the device is used. For devices whose primary utility is based on the display of information e.g. mobile email e books marketing messages such utility is enhanced by display technologies that allow longer active display times between recharges. The displays described herein are also directed to such applications.

A TFT flat panel system is disclosed that integrates some row drive functions on the display substrate to reduce the number of drive pins required for the flat panel.

A TFT flat panel system is disclosed that integrates some column drive functions on the display substrate to reduce the number of drive pins required for the flat panel.

An integrated driver flat panel display system is also disclosed that achieves long term reliability when implemented with a Si TFTs.

An integrated driver flat panel display system is also disclosed that achieves data independent bias stress on the driver TFT devices.

An integrated driver flat panel display system that demultiplexes high voltage signals while maintaining very low voltage bias stress is disclosed.

An integrated single level TFT demultiplexer is disclosed that incorporates a capacitive memory element to preserve the demultiplexer state.

An integrated multiple level TFT demultiplexer is disclosed that incorporates a capacitive memory element to preserve the demultiplexer state.

A display system that monitors the stress condition of multiple classes of TFT devices is also disclosed.

A display system that generates a negative stress modulation through temporal modulation of the drive waveforms is also disclosed.

A display system that generates a negative stress modulation through amplitude modulation of the drive waveforms is also disclosed.

A display system that generates a negative stress modulation through both temporal and amplitude modulation of the drive waveforms is also disclosed.

A method of TFT positive stress compensation with a negative stress modulation system is also disclosed.

Further objects aspects and advantages of the present teachings will be readily understood after reading the following description with reference to the drawings and the appended claims.

The following abbreviations are utilized in the following description which abbreviations are intended to have the meanings provided as follows 

Each of the additional features and teachings disclosed below may be utilized separately or in conjunction with other features and teachings to provide improved wireless sensing systems and methods for designing and using the same. Representative examples which examples utilize many of these additional features and teachings both separately and in combination will now be described in further detail with reference to the attached drawings. This detailed description is merely intended to teach a person of skill in the art further details for practicing preferred aspects of the present teachings and is not intended to limit the scope of the claims. Therefore combinations of features and steps disclosed in the following detail description may not be necessary to practice the concepts described herein in the broadest sense and are instead taught merely to particularly describe representative examples of the present teachings.

In addition it is expressly noted that all features disclosed in the description are intended to be disclosed separately and independently from each other for the purpose of original disclosure as well as for the purpose of restricting the subject matter independent of the compositions of the features in the embodiments and or the claims. It is also expressly noted that all value ranges or indications of groups of entities disclose every possible intermediate value or intermediate entity for the purpose of original disclosure as well as for the purpose of restricting the claimed subject matter.

Alternative active display configurations other than that shown in such as dual polarizer reflective transmissive transflective backlit sidelit guest host electrically controlled birefringent RTN PDLC electrophoretic and other alternate liquid crystal and or other display technologies that require an active backplane can benefit from the present teachings. The specific description herein of a reflective LCD incorporating the present teachings does not limit the scope of the present teachings in their application to alternative display materials and technologies

In pins P 23 0 supply the LCD control voltages that are driven into the array . Column demultiplex TFTs are controlled by column select signals C 29 0 . By applying select signals C 29 0 in sequence a time sequence of voltages on P 23 0 can be stored on the each of the column storage capacitors C. Each column of the TFT pixel array is comprised of ten banks of eight pixels each and a column storage capacitor C. Each bank contains eight pixels and is selected by ten bank select signals B 9 0 . Within each bank a given row of pixels can be selected using row select signals R 7 0 . Each pixel contains circuitry to control the LCD pixel voltage as well as counteract bias stress on the pixel s TFTs.

During the column scan timing group the C j lines are pulsed sequentially and sample the voltages at P j pins onto the column storage caps C . At the end of the column precharge and column scan operations each column storage capacitor C has been programmed to an independent desired voltage.

The second group of timing signals shown in contains ten column load operations as described above and acts to load the bank capacitors C. The exact number of column load operations required for such a bank load operation is dictated by the display resolution and designer choices on the partition of columns banks pixels and rows the present teachings are not limited to a particular number of column load operations nor the exact number and or sequence of scanning pulses on the column demultiplexing selection gates C 29 0 . After each column load operation a bank select signal causes the programmed Vcapacitors to charge share with the Vcapacitors and transfer the desired pixel information closer to the desired pixel.

The third group of timing signals in shows a complete frame load operation that provides an update of all pixel voltages Vin the frame. The frame load operation is comprised of a series of eight bank load operations . Starting from the left of the frame load operation the first operation is preferentially a row gate negative stress blocking operation in which all or some of the row lines R m are pulsed to a positive voltage to prevent the accumulation of negative threshold shift in the row select TFTs . By breaking up the negative gate voltage periods the accumulation of negative threshold voltage shift can be reduced and controlled. The second operation in the third group is a combined bank and first row precharge operation that enables the column select gates C 29 0 the bank select gates B 9 0 the row enable signal R and the display row signal that will be programmed next R m . Source voltage pins P 23 0 are driven with a bank precharge voltage Vthat in one embodiment is the same as the Vvoltage. In another embodiment the voltage Vdepends on the state of the pixel inversion method e.g. frame line bank column sub block or dot inversion . By precharging the bank hold capacitor Cvoltage to a known value prior sample feedthrough is suppressed and the required voltage swing at P 23 0 to effect a given change at the pixels is minimized. Predistortion of the P 23 0 voltages to accommodate charge sharing stray capacitances gate drain coupling initial conditions DC balance etc. can preferentially be applied by the driver IC . The third operation within the frame load operation is a bank load operation as described above. Since the bank load operation is always preceded by a bank precharge operation the voltage range required at P 23 0 is minimized. The fourth operation of the frame load happens after the bank load operation and is a negative stress blocking operation for the row TFTs similar to . The fifth operation finally transfers the bank of stored voltages to the desired row of pixels by pulsing the desired row gate signal R m and R simultaneously causing the selected row of pixel capacitances to charge share with the corresponding bank capacitances . With proper selection of C C and C the charge sharing amplitude reduction can be balanced against the source drive voltage range to achieve a reasonable transfer fraction from source voltage pins P 23 0 to the pixel control node V. The sixth operation of the frame load operation is a bank and row precharge operation similar to except that it is precharging a different row in this example R 1 . Subsequent bank load operations are used to successively load all the rows of the TFT pixel matrix ending on the final row transfer operation .

The last timing group shown in is comprised of a sequence of frame load operations followed by a negative stress control operation an optional column select gate monitoring operation and an optional bank select gate monitoring operation . The frame load operations are repeated every frame refresh period .

The positive stress on the column select gates C 29 0 is much higher than the positive stress on the bank select lines B 9 0 due to the higher positive duty cycle of the column select gates during the column loading operation . As a result during the negative stress control operation the column gates need to be held at a negative voltage for longer stretches of time compared to other gates to allow the negative stress to compensate for the accumulated operational positive stress. The negative stress control operation relies on the fact that the negative stress response is nonlinear with respect to the duration of the negative stress. By applying a non operational i.e. not display refreshing time modulated signal between frame load operations the negative stress can be intentionally and proactively applied in measured amounts to counterbalance the accumulation of positive stress during the operational frame load operation.

Similarly the positive stress on the bank select lines B 9 0 is much higher than the positive stress on the row select lines R 7 0 due to the relatively higher positive duty cycle of the bank select signals. During negative stress control operation the bank select gates are held a negative voltage for shorter intervals than the column select gates but longer intervals than the row select gates .

Lastly the row select and row enable gates R 7 0 and R see the lowest positive duty cycle of all the TFTs. By lowering the frame rate to save power the negative stress accumulated on the row select transistors during the time in between frame load operations could be larger than the positive stress accumulated during the frame load. To balance the negative stress with the positive stress non functional i.e. not scanning or loading positive pulses are preferentially added to the row select and row enable gate signals to break up the negative stress period to reduce the negative threshold shift.

By tailoring the pulse durations negative stress periods and gate positive and negative voltages appropriately the positive and negative stress can be balanced across all the gate drive types column selects bank selects row enable and row selects required to support the column and row drive system described by the present teachings.

While described using a specific embodiment of a 240 80 RGB display the present teachings can be generally applied to any demultiplexer based display system that has TFT or switching devices with asymmetric positive and negative stress accumulation mechanisms and at least one stress mechanism that is nonlinear in time. By breaking the frame period into two sections namely a frame loading operation and a stress control operation the accumulated stress can be balanced for all of the different types of demultiplexing gate signals used to operate the display.

In addition or in the alternative the frame period of the display drive waveforms can be modified to support more or less negative stress accumulation allowing additional tuning of the positive negative stress balance.

The stress control waveforms in can be predetermined to compensate for known drive waveforms and a known TFT stress nonlinearity. Without relying on feedback such a system is known in the art as a feed forward compensation system.

In an additional or alternative embodiment the display controller IC can insert one or more additional stress monitoring steps e.g. and into one or more frame periods as shown in . In one embodiment of stress monitoring an AC signal is applied to the P 23 0 pixel source signals. The column select gate lines C 29 0 are held at a positive voltage while the other select gates in the system are held in the negative off state. The AC impedance through to the V signal through the Vcapacitance can be measured by the display controller IC using a decay time or multipoint frequency response method as is well known in the art. Since the Vcapacitance is relatively stable over the lifetime of the display the on resistance of the column select TFT transistors can be computed from the measured AC impedance directly. Threshold voltage shifts in the column select TFTs can be directly monitored with this method and the negative stress reduction pulses applied using a negative feedback control loop for instance to regulate the TFT threshold voltage directly. Similarly the bank select transistors can be monitored as well by activating both the column select gates C 29 0 and the bank select gates B 9 0 simultaneously while measuring the AC impedance from P 23 0 to V. The differential impedance measurement from P 23 0 to Vwhen only column select lines C 29 0 are active compared to when both column C 29 0 and bank B 9 0 select lines are active can be used to measure the on resistance of the bank select TFTs . Based on this measurement a control loop can then modify the negative bias pulse width applied during negative stress control period to adaptively correct the accumulated operational stress. In addition or in the alternative one or more non operational stress monitoring devices may be fabricated on the flat panel preferably one or more for each type of gate drive waveform that can then be monitored directly for threshold voltage shifts using e.g. AC impedance a constant drain source current or other threshold or impedance monitoring techniques known in the art .

In addition or in the alternative for alternative switching devices other than a Si H TFTs negative stress may dominate during the operational period requiring a positive stress control period. The concepts described herein are not particularly limited to the polarity of the operational stress and the corresponding anti polarity of the controlled compensating stress.

In addition or in the alternative the stress modulation technique can encompass a wide variety of techniques including but not limited to amplitude modulation frequency modulation pulse width modulation or combinations thereof. In addition or in the alternative the stress control period one or more optional stress monitoring periods and the frame update period can be temporally interleaved to effect a modulation of the compensating stress or as desired by the system designer to the extent allowed by the nonlinear stress accumulation characteristics of the TFT devices.

Many choices on the specifics of the stress monitoring and stress modulation methods are available to designers skilled in the art the concepts described herein are not limited by such design decisions. Modifying the device drive waveforms during a stress control period to balance the accumulated operational stress by forming a closed loop system is important and is not limited by the specifics of the stress polarity stress monitoring structure or method nor the stress modulation method.

Persons skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of display resolutions specific scanning waveforms demultiplexing circuits stress monitoring device configurations either dummy or operational stress monitoring processes can be chosen to implement the present teachings.

The pixel circuit in comprises five TFT devices namely a partial bank select transistor M and a series of row gate TFTs M M M and M . The bank select transistor M in this example is replicated in many pixel cells each pixel cell contains a portion of the total bank selector transistor. Such parallel devices are often employed in the art to make layout more regular such modifications are well within the scope of the present teachings. These bank select TFTs are activated sequentially to transfer a desired pixel voltage value from a vertically running column line col through another vertically running bank storage line bank to the pixel storage capacitor C . The transfer from C to C is made by pulsing the gate of M by driving line B k . A common hold capacitor ground HC is attached to the three storage capacitors in each example pixel namely C C and C . The pixel storage capacitor C is preferably attached via a contact to a reflective electrode that is the bottom plate of the liquid crystal capacitance C. The opposing electrode forms the other plate of C and is attached to a common pixel voltage V. The RMS difference in voltage between V and V determines the optical state of the liquid crystal . In one embodiment the V node is modulated continuously to reduce the required voltage range of the TFT devices and or reduce power.

The four row transfer TFTs M M M and M are gated by four independent row gate signals R m R m R m and R m respectively. The choice of four gates is for illustration purposes only in practice the number of row transfer TFTs will be a design choice based on the TFT process parameters the size and resolution of the display the desired frame rate the allowable flicker and other performance criteria. In the present embodiment two or more row transfer TFTs are required to prevent negative stress accumulation at very low frame rates as described below. Such choices are considered within the scope of the present teachings.

The operation of this embodiment of a flat panel can be described as consisting of two phases. In practice the two phases can be interleaved but for clarity they are described herein as distinct phases. The first phase involves writing a new frame of information to the pixel array. To accomplish this a sequence of operations is performed on the array. The pseudocode for the frame update is as follows 

where NumRow is the number of rows in this example 10 NumCol is the number of column gates in this example 30 and NumBank is the number of banks in this example 12 . The ClearRow m WriteCol m j WriteBank m k and WriteRow m commands preferentially have two polarity states that can be alternated based on row number m or frame to achieve a balanced DC voltage across the LCD pixels. In addition or in the alternative the present embodiment can implement any one of a number of known pixel frame row dot or other inversion pattern as in known in the art to achieve DC balance across the LCD material.

The ClearRow m operation activates M by pulsing gate SEN high so that the voltage on pin S is connected to CCOL . Gate lines B k for all banks are also pulsed high so that all CBANK capacitors are also charged to the voltage on pin S . Finally for a given row m its row select line R m is pulsed high along with the four RS lines to transfer the S pin voltage to one row of pixels via the row transfer TFTs M M M and M in each pixel. This operation acts to preset a target row m and all the bank capacitors to a voltage that is preferentially similar to its subsequently programmed voltage in the process erasing the previous voltage on the pixel capacitor V . Without such erasing the charge sharing transfer method could lead to image ghosting and artifacts. Those skilled in the art will recognize that with the proper choice of transfer capacitors and or in applications that are relatively insensitive to image artifacts the ClearRow m operation may be eliminated to reduce power and or complexity.

Once a row has been cleared the next operation is to fill all the banks with that row s pixel values. A sequence of WriteCol m j calls each one of which parallel loads analog pixel values onto the Ccapacitors builds a 720 element array of voltages on the Ccapacitors that is then transferred to a given bank k by pulsing the gate control line B k . Once all the bank capacitors C have been loaded a total of 8 640 capacitors in this example the target row m can be again driven by the action of the row select signal R m and the row source RS as before to share the charge stored on the Ccapacitors with the pixel charge on the pixel storage capacitors C . Each row can be similarly loaded to complete the frame as described in the pseudocode above. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the exact sequence of the actions taken e.g. that the rows are processed sequentially can be modified to achieve a similar end. Some advantageous changes e.g. writing all even rows first then all odd rows can be adapted to the present system to reduce voltage swings and power dissipation by minimizing transitions while performing row inversion DC balancing. Such modifications and permutations are considered within the scope of the present teachings.

Once the entire array of pixel values is written the array can be placed in a standby state to conserve power until the pixel voltages leak away and require refreshing to prevent image artifacts e.g. flicker . This standby state between frame updates comprises the second phase of the operation of the present embodiment. Many applications of flat panels can make use of a variable frame rate the concepts described herein are well suited to applications where the frame rate must run fast for certain types of content e.g. 30 Hz frame rate when the user is actively interacting with the device but also needs a low power state where frame refresh rate can drop to a few Hz. To achieve this a variable length standby state can be inserted between the active frame refreshes of the first phase described above.

In one embodiment gate lines C j SEN B k and R m are preferentially biased so that their associated TFTs achieve a Vvery close to zero. Such low stress conditions act to remove the effects of the operational phase stress on the TFT devices. If additional negative stress is required to compensate for a positive threshold shift the Vcan be made appropriately negative to generate a controlled amount of negative stress. As described above stress monitoring devices or AC impedance measurements among other techniques can be used to measure the threshold shift of the various TFT devices. One key aspect of the concepts described herein is to compensate for the accumulated positive stress by temporal or amplitude waveform modulation in a destress phase between frame refreshes.

The RS lines and the internal nodes that are set by them R m R m R m R m are also cycled during the destress phase to maintain the pixel array s charges. Since a strongly negative Vis typically needed to block the leakage path of the pixel storage capacitor C at least one of the four row transfer TFTs must be strongly off at any one time. Strongly negative Vvalues tend to accumulate negative stress negative stress is known to have a strong dependence on the negative pulse width becoming much larger as the negative pulse width gets longer. In one embodiment of the present teachings the Rx m lines are sequentially brought low one at a time to prevent the accumulation of negative stress while preserving the charge storage of the pixel voltage. By pulsing all of the R m signals periodically to transfer cyclic RS values to the row transfer gates three of four row transfer TFTs will at any one time have a Vpreferentially very close to zero while the remaining TFT will have its gate at a sufficiently negative Vto prevent the leakage of the stored pixel voltage during the standby period. By rotating the charge blocking assignment between at least two row transfer TFTs within each pixel the deleterious negative stress effects of long negative pulse widths can be effectively avoided. As long as the pixel voltage is preserved by the row transfer FETs M M M and M the demultiplexing TFTs e.g. M M M can be put in a very low power very low stress standby state e.g. V 0 and or negative stress compensation can be applied.

As described above the accumulation of negative stress can be avoided in many cases by keeping Vclose to zero in the standby phase in addition or in the alternative the standby state Vcan be uniquely controlled per input gate to compensate for operational threshold shift. Amplitude and timing modulation can effectively tailor the accumulated negative stress to compensate for positive stress. In a preferred embodiment the waveforms and levels used in the standby destress state are chosen to minimize transitions and power dissipation.

Gate bias of N type a Si H TFT devices is typically required to both activate and deactivate the devices. Positive gate bias in such devices turns the device on and typically induces a positive shift in the threshold voltage of the device over long time scales. Negative gate bias turns the device off and typically induces both a negative threshold shift and subthreshold slope reduction over long time scales.

Stress accumulation for bipolar gate drive in a Si H TFTs is generally thought to follow a stretched exponential of the form Where and 1 

where Vis the threshold shift Vis the gate bias less the threshold voltage of the device tis the total stress time A is an empirical constant D is the duty cycle of the positive part of the drive signal and Fis a factor between zero and one related to negative stress frequency. Generally the stress induced threshold shift is roughly proportional to the square of the gate drive amplitude V V and approximately the square root of the total stress time accounting for duty cycle e.g. 2 and 0.5 . Due to the approximately square law dependence on voltage a short duration high amplitude gate drive signal can generate significantly more stress than a lower gate voltage applied over a longer period of time in a preferred embodiment the gate drive amplitudes are minimized and charging time and TFT size are maximized to lower the required Vgate drive and minimize TFT stress. The present teachings also make use of the asymmetric response to positive and negative stress by optionally modulating the negative stress as required to balance the accumulated positive stress.

In order to reduce the power of the flat panel display for static information displays it would be useful to reduce the frame rate of the flat panel as power is more or less proportional to the frame frequency. However with lower frame frequency the consequent lower negative stress frequency increases the effect of the negative stress per to the point where the lifetime of the flat panel is substantially shortened. The present teachings describe a circuit technique that mitigates such negative stress at very low frame rates e.g. 4 Hz to achieve a very low standby power display.

One of the key objectives of integrated row and column driver circuits is to reduce the pin count required to drive the display substrate. Integrated drivers typically must have some signals that are modulated substantially faster and or more often than the frame rate to achieve such pin count reduction. Due to the limited operating frequency of a Si H TFTs such higher modulations require higher duty cycle of at least some of the devices used in the integrated driver circuits. Also due to the need for high voltages to switch TFT devices in the pixel array such driver circuits must be designed to handle typically higher voltages than the pixel array. With higher duty cycle and higher voltages comes higher positive stress and higher threshold shifts such effects are the primary limitation on the operating lifetime of integrated driver a Si H TFT displays. The present teachings describe a method by which the duty cycle and positive voltage bias can be reduced in integrated drivers while maintaining the capability to drive high amplitude positive and negative voltages into the pixel array.

Alternative active display configurations other than that shown in such as dual polarizer reflective transmissive transflective backlit sidelit guest host ECB OCB STN HTN TN MTN RTN PDLC electrophoretic electronic ink and other alternate liquid crystal and or other display technologies that require an active backplane can benefit from the present teachings. The specific description herein of a reflective LCD incorporating the present teachings does not limit the scope of the present teachings in their application to alternative display materials and technologies.

In pins CS 44 0 supply the analog LCD pixel voltages that are driven into the pixel array . Column demultiplex TFTs one of which is identified as M in are controlled by a single bit of dynamic memory stored on a gate capacitor the corresponding one of which for M is identified as C in . The gate bias stored on each of the column demultiplex control capacitors such as C determines whether the column pass TFT e.g. M is in a conductive on or nonconductive off state. The 720 column lines several of which are identified with Vlabel in where n 0 to 719 have large parasitic capacitances in the pixel array that are used as a temporary storage for a row of pixel voltages one of which is identified as C in . A row of pixel voltages are scanned onto such parasitic capacitances by the forty five CS 44 0 lines using the forty five 16 1 demultiplex circuits shown in composed of pass transistors such as M that are sequentially pulsed to sample voltages from CS 44 0 onto column capacitors such as C. Preferentially the sizes of M and equivalent function column pass TFTs are chosen to be large enough to allow significant conduction to occur even with a relative low e.g. a few volts gate source bias voltage.

Each column demultiplex operation requires three phases as shown in the timing diagram in which includes the relevant waveforms required to drive a voltage onto the left most column capacitor C of the pixel array . also includes a relevant subset of the devices required for setting the column voltage V and the row control devices required to write the stored column voltage V into a pixel cell. The column scan operation described below indicates a preferred usage of the circuits and waveforms shown in and .

At the beginning of the column demultiplex operation all column demultiplex control capacitors such as C are assumed to have a negative bias i.e. all column pass TFTs such as M are in the off state. In the first phase the CS 44 0 lines are preferentially brought to a mid level voltage shown as Vin although a wide range of voltages is acceptable. The CG terminal is brought to a voltage that is enough above the CS 44 0 mid voltage level Vto generate a gate bias that puts M into an on state. Preferentially the on state of M requires only a few volts of Vvoltage drive i.e. M is designed to be sufficiently large to have acceptable conduction with a few volts of Vdrive. The CA 15 0 lines are programmed so that only one of the sixteen wires has a positive Vand can pass the control gate voltage CG to the selected control capacitor such as C. In CA is driven above the CG voltage during phase to program the state of M to on . Because the source and gate voltages of all the activated TFTs are not data dependent during this operation the gate voltages used to set the control capacitors such as C can be kept very low compared to conventional demultiplex circuits which typically must pass high voltage data or control information. In this manner the state of the control capacitors Ccan be set using only low voltage control signals that minimize gate stress on both column control demultiplexing TFTs such as M and column pass transistors such as M . At the end of the first phase the voltage on the selected columns e.g. V have settled to Vand the CA 15 0 lines are brought back to a negative bias state that is capable of preserving the state of the column demultiplex control voltages stored on capacitors such as C over the range of subsequent CS 44 0 modulations.

In the second phase of the column demultiplex operation the source voltage levels CS 44 0 are driven to a desired analog pixel voltage value. The column pass transistors that are in the on state follow the CS 44 0 variation for both positive and negative excursions from the mid level voltage V. One important consequence of using a control voltage stored on C during the first phase is that the Vof the pass transistor M is nearly independent of the pixel source voltage that is driven from CS 44 0 onto the column capacitors C e.g. C . This decouples the required pixel source voltage range which might be 10V or more from the control voltage which might only be 2V to prevent stress accumulation and consequently avoids the positive bias stress associated with high V.

The third and final phase of the column demultiplex operation discharges the on TFT s control capacitor to an off state. CG is brought to a low enough potential to guarantee that all column pass TFTs such as M will be in the off state independent of the voltages stored on Ccapacitors e.g. C . Although the gate voltage of M is data dependent at the time of discharge discharging the C capacitor to a negative voltage does not require a data dependent Vacross M . The previously selected column pass TFT e.g. M is turned to an off state by setting the corresponding CA 15 0 line e.g. CA in to a voltage enough above the CG level to turn on M discharging C. At the end of the third and final phase of the column demultiplex operation the CA 15 0 lines are returned to a negative off gate bias.

As described above the present teachings confer a number of important advantages over the prior art demultiplex and or scanning circuits. First the control state of the demultiplexer can be set using only low voltage control signals that do not need to accommodate any data dependency which both minimizes and regularizes positive stress i.e. the stress seen by the transistors is more or less uniform independent of the pixel data. Second the pixel source voltage is allowed to have a wide excursion without introducing a large positive stress voltage on the demultiplex pass transistor also independent of pixel source voltage. Third the control state of the demultiplexer can be reset without introducing large positive stress on the demultiplexing TFT. Fourth the control signals for the demultiplexer are kept at a low voltage that can permit the use of lower voltage driver IC technology to set the demultiplexer state i.e. the Ccapacitor voltages .

As shown in the control TFT M is only activated for short periods of time and without a large Vbias. The limited positive bias and limited duty cycle are sufficient to enable column scanning using conventional a Si H TFTs.

By applying select signals CA 15 0 in sequence as shown in and a time sequence of voltages on CS 44 0 can be sampled and temporarily stored on the array of 1720 column capacitors Cwhich feed the pixel array . At the end of a column scan operation each of the Ccapacitors in this example has a voltage corresponding to a desired pixel level for a given row. The next operation of the array is to write the 1720 column voltages into a chosen row of pixels.

Each of the 1720 columns of the TFT pixel array is comprised of fifteen row groups each of which contains 1120 horizontal by 8 vertical pixels. Each row group can be selected by the operation of row demultiplex TFTs some of which are identified as M M M and M in .

Each pixel contains circuitry to control the LCD pixel voltage as well as counteract bias stress on the pixel s TFTs. shows a single pixel s upper left corner row index 0 column index 0 electrical conduction and control paths from the input output connection points of the TFT substrate . Each pixel requires two control signals for selection identified as V and V in . A pixel captures the Vvoltage of its corresponding column line when a high voltage control signal on the row control lines e.g. V and V causes the pixel storage capacitor C and the column capacitor C e.g. C to share charge through pass transistors M and M . In this manner the voltage across the LCD pixel e.g. V in can be independently programmed to generate a desired optical state of the pixel by controlling the voltage across the liquid crystal shown as capacitor C in . The pixel storage capacitor C is preferably large enough to prevent pixel charge leakage during non selected periods. C is connected to a common pixel capacitor reference line PC . In addition or in the alternative the Chold capacitance can have a back plate voltage that is one of the driven lines within the array e.g. V. The liquid crystal cell is shown as a simple capacitor C whose back plate is on the opposing substrate of the LCD and driven by V. V can optionally be driven with an AC waveform to improve cell retention limit array voltage swings and or reduce system power.

Pixel source voltage CS is connected through a column pass TFT M to a typically parasitic hold cap C when column pass transistor gate control capacitor C has been set high by the action of CG CA and M as described above. In addition or in the alternative an intentional column capacitor can be created to augment the parasitic capacitance on the column line as required to aid the charge transfer from the column capacitor C into the pixel storage capacitor C. Voltage V represents the temporarily stored pixel information for a given pixel in its associated column in the example of it is column index zero.

In one embodiment pixel source voltages CS 44 0 e.g. CS are driven with pixel level voltages representing although not necessarily equal to the desired final voltage for the selected pixels. Due to charge sharing in later operations e.g. the transfer of charge from C to C the voltage at the pixel e.g. VPIXEL will be the driven pixel source voltage at CS 44 0 e.g. CS modified by the ratio of the sharing capacitances the initial voltage conditions the gate drain capacitance gate voltage swing charge splitting and additional parasitic capacitances in the system among other effects. To reduce the effect of such non idealities the driven source voltages CS 44 0 are preferentially pre distorted to compensate for the voltage modifications expected in the TFT circuit of so that the pixel node voltages e.g. V achieve the desired levels to create a desired image on the liquid crystal display.

The row enable signals for the pixel of are generated in a four phase row select operation. shows a timing diagram with example waveforms for both a selected row operation and the two cases for non selected row operations . In the first phase of the selected row case the row source line RS is set to the Vvoltage level which is preferably chosen to prevent pixel charge leakage from C. The common RG line is set at a voltage enough above the Vvoltage so that the M and M TFTs will be driven to an on state if selected. Both the RA 1 0 lines are then set to a voltage above the RG voltage to allow M and M to conduct. The conduction is indicated by the black dot in in phase note that the Voverdrive required to set an on state in M and M is preferentially kept small to minimize positive voltage stress. The row control capacitors C and C are consequently programmed to an on state and connect the selected row lines V and V to the RS voltage source. Since the row source and gate voltages are all known and not actively passing high voltages in this phase the Vfor both the select e.g. M and M and row pass transistors e.g. M and M can be kept relatively low e.g. a few volts limiting the impact of positive stress on the devices. At the end of the first phase the RA 15 0 lines are set to a low voltage to freeze the on state onto the selected row pass transistors M and M .

In the second phase of the selected row operation the RS voltage is raised to a high voltage Vto transfer the charge from the array of 1720 column capacitors C e.g. C to the selected row of pixel storage capacitors e.g. C . Since the control information was captured onto the C and C capacitors in the first phase the Vof the row pass transistor is kept roughly constant independent of the row drive amplitude Vin . A significant advantage is gained over prior art demultiplexing row drive circuits by avoiding pass transistors that see a high Vdue to passing off row voltages. In addition the highest control voltage to be generated by the external driver IC is reduced. At the end of the second phase the RS line is brought back to the Vvoltage.

In the third phase of the row select operation one of the RA 1 0 lines in this case RA is brought to a more negative voltage than RA . This has the effect of maintaining the on state of M . RG is then brought to a voltage lower than the RA voltage causing M to conduct and discharge the C capacitor. This has the effect of turning the M pass transistor state to off as shown in the M state diagram . At the end of the third phase the RS is brought to a mid range potential level Vwhich causes V to follow RS to VEST since M is still in the on state as shown in .

In the fourth and final phase the RA line is pulsed to a voltage above the RG voltage so as to discharge the Ccapacitor and turn M to an off state . At the end of the fourth phase the M and M row pass transistors are in an off state . Note that the on Vdrive indicated by the small black dots in during the first third and fourth phases is preferentially kept small to minimize the accumulation of positive stress in the demultiplex logic. By limiting Vwhile demultiplexing large voltage range signals e.g. row swings Vto V the present teachings enable the integration of advanced driver functions into a Si H TFT processes.

RA 15 0 lines are sequentially pulsed in pairs similarly to RA 1 0 in to sequentially address each of the pairs of rows in the pixel array. RS 14 0 lines are sequentially driven with selection signals similar to RS to drive row lines in other row groups .

Non selected rows that do not share the same RA n 1 n activation pair but do share the same RS m line with the selected row are not turned to the on state as shown in timing section of . Non selected rows that do share the same RA n 1 n activation pair but not the same RS m with the selected row line are preferentially used to swap the voltages on the pairs of rows to provide stress mitigation for the pixel array transistors M and M as shown in timing section of and described below.

Non selected row waveforms shown in occur when a row group s RS n line is not driven to the high state Vto select a pixel row in that group during the second phase of the row programming. In the non selected row example of the RS line is kept low during the row address phase phase two . The pattern of M and M on and off states is similar to the pattern seen with the selected row. Preferentially the timing of the return to off state of M and M is alternated between successive activations of RA 1 0 thus causing the V and V to preferentially exchange voltage levels between Vand Vduring a non selected row operation such as . Note that the gate voltages on the pixel pass transistors M and M employ a break before make switching transition this ensures that the pixel charge on C is well protected against rise fall time variations and charge leakage at row voltage transitions.

The row control lines for each pixel e.g. V and V for the first row of pixels are responsible for maintaining isolation between the stored pixel charge and the column line in between pixel row activations. To achieve sufficiently low leakage in M and M a negative gate voltage is required. However due to the desire to reduce frame rate well below the negative stress roll off frequency shown in this negative gate voltage must not be applied continuously. In a preferred embodiment of the present teachings two voltage levels Vand V are alternately used on the row lines V and V to prevent both leakage and negative stress accumulation. By alternating the V and V voltages between an off bias V and a stress reducing Vvoltage at a frequency similar to fast frame rate displays e.g. 60 Hz alternation the effects of negative stress on M and M of can be significantly reduced.

In one preferred embodiment the voltage level Vis chosen to be negative enough so that the pixel charge stored on C does not substantially leak away through M or M between pixel refreshes. Only one of M or M need be driven by Vto achieve low leakage from the pixel. The voltage Vis preferentially chosen to provide a slightly positive bias to the pixel select TFTs M and M which acts to clear out hole accumulation within the channel of the M and M and consequently interrupt the TFT channel s negative stress accumulation process. The Vand Vvoltages are sampled on the V and V lines and will be held by the parasitic capacitance of the row lines between drive operations.

In addition or in the alternative a slightly negative or neutral bias can be selected for the Vvoltage. In addition or in the alternative the RS line can be modulated with an additional incremental positive pulse between phase three and phase four described above that raises RS to a higher level than all possible pixel voltages Vin the array. This has the effect of guaranteeing hole expulsion from the TFT channels in M and M which acts to reset the dominant negative stress accumulation mechanism. The RS line can then be returned to a neutral or slightly negative Vvoltage at the end of the third phase described above to subsequently minimize positive or negative stress in between refresh cycles.

At a 4 Hz frame refresh rate in the present example of a 120 row display the RA 15 0 pairs are activated fifteen times during the frame resulting in a row voltage alternation period of 60 Hz similar to a conventional refresh scanning profile when considering negative stress accumulation. The negative stress effects typically associated with very low frame rates can be suppressed while at the same time the pixel charge on C can be substantially preserved with one of the M or M TFTs in a strongly negative off state.

By modulating the V and V lines seen by each row in opposite directions the parasitic coupling of the row lines to the pixel node V is balanced to reduce flicker artifacts. The power required to modulate the row lines between Vand Vis relatively low compared to the leakage in LTPS pixel memory circuits the present teachings provide a method to achieve a low leakage state on a dynamic pixel charge without incurring the high power budget associated with a Si H TFT 60 Hz frame refresh or the high cost of LTPS integrated pixel memory.

The exact number of column scan operations and row load operations is dictated by the display resolution and designer choices on the partition of columns pixels row source lines and row select lines the present teachings are not limited to a particular number of column scan operations nor the exact number and or sequence of scanning pulses on the column demultiplexing gates or sources. Similarly the present teachings are not limited to a particular number of row load operations or the exact number and or sequence of scanning pulses on the row demultiplexing gates or sources.

The positive stress on the column select gates CA 15 0 is much higher than the positive stress on the pixel gate lines V and V due to the higher positive duty cycle of the column select gates during the column scan operation shown in . In one embodiment of the present teachings the column gate voltages on M and M can be driven to a negative voltage during the row load operation of to intentionally create negative stress to compensate for the accumulated operational positive stress. By applying a non operational i.e. not display refreshing time or amplitude modulated signal during row load operations when columns are otherwise inactive negative stress on the column pass TFTs M or column control TFTs M can be intentionally and proactively applied in measured amounts to counterbalance the accumulation of positive stress during the operational column scan operation.

Similarly the positive stress on the row select TFTs e.g. M M M and M is much higher than the positive stress on the pixel gate lines V and V due to the higher positive duty cycle of the row select control signals RA 15 0 during the row load operation of . In one embodiment of the present teachings the row control signals can be driven to a controlled negative stress condition during the column scan operation to intentionally generate negative stress to compensate for the accumulated operational positive stress. By applying a non operational i.e. not display refreshing time or amplitude modulated signal during the column scan operations depicted in when rows are otherwise inactive negative stress on the row control TFTs e.g. M M M and M can be intentionally and proactively applied in measured amounts to counterbalance the accumulation of positive stress during the operational row load operation or row alternation depicted in .

By tailoring the pulse durations negative stress periods and gate positive and negative voltages appropriately the positive and negative stress can be balanced across all the gate drive types column selects row selects column controls row controls and pixel selects required to support the column and row drive system described by the present teachings.

In an additional or alternative embodiment the Voverdrive applied to turn on the demultiplex TFTs can be adjusted over the life of the panel to compensate for stress induced threshold shifts in the demultiplex TFTs by monitoring the dynamic current on the source lines e.g. CG RG CS 44 0 or RS 14 0 during the various charging intervals described above to ensure that the charged capacitors e.g. C C C Crespectively settle to a final voltage in the time allocated i.e. dynamic current approaches zero at the end of the interval . The present teachings confer the ability to adjust dynamically and independently the overdrives of the various different demultiplex transistor types e.g. M M M and M in response to varying frame rate and threshold shift conditions. In one important aspect of the present teachings the gate overdrive voltage of M M M and M and similar TFTs can be significantly adjusted to higher voltages without increasing the overall voltage range of the driver IC as the highest generated voltage typically Von the row lines is often significantly higher than the gate overdrive signals with an un aged panel. By compensating for induced bias stress with additional gate overdrive that does not affect the driver IC voltage range the present teachings provide a significant operational advantage without increasing cost.

While described using a specific embodiment of a 240 120 RGB display the present teachings can be generally applied to any demultiplexer based display system that has TFT or switching devices with asymmetric and nonlinear positive and negative stress accumulation mechanisms.

The stress control waveforms described above can be predetermined to compensate for known drive waveforms and a known TFT stress nonlinearity. Without relying on feedback such a system is known in the art as a feed forward compensation system.

In an additional or alternative embodiment the display controller IC can insert one or more additional stress monitoring steps into one or more frame periods. In one embodiment of stress monitoring an AC signal is applied to the CS 44 0 pixel source signals. The column select gate lines CA 15 0 and CG lines are set to a known voltage or swept through a sequence of voltages. The AC impedance of the CS 44 0 lines and or the CG lines can be measured by the display controller IC using a decay time or multipoint frequency response method or other impedance measuring methods as are well known in the art. Since the Ccapacitances e.g. C are relatively stable over the lifetime of the display the resistance of the column pass transistors e.g. M can be computed from the measured AC impedance directly. Threshold voltage shifts in the column pass TFTs can be directly monitored with this method and the negative stress reduction modulation described above can be applied using a feedback control loop for instance to regulate the TFT threshold voltage directly.

Similarly the row select transistors can be monitored as well by setting the row pass TFTs M and M to one or more test voltages simultaneously while measuring the AC impedance from RS 14 0 and or RG . Based on this measurement a control loop can then modulate the negative bias applied to the row pass gates of M and M and or row select gates of M and M to adaptively correct the accumulated operational stress. In addition or in the alternative one or more non operational stress monitoring devices may be fabricated on the flat panel preferably one or more for each type of gate drive waveform that can then be monitored directly for threshold voltage shifts using e.g. AC impedance a constant drain source current or other threshold or impedance monitoring techniques known in the art .

As described above the accumulation of negative stress can be avoided in many cases by keeping Vas close to zero as possible during operation. In an additional embodiment a standby state can be added in which the Vof each type of gate can be uniquely controlled to compensate for operational threshold shift. Amplitude and timing modulation can effectively tailor the accumulated negative stress to compensate for positive stress during such a standby period. In a preferred embodiment the waveforms and levels used in a standby de stress state are chosen to minimize transitions and power dissipation.

In addition or in the alternative to the AC impedance method described above dedicated stress monitoring devices can be added to the display depending on the exact monitoring and compensation requirements. The particular arrangement of compensation devices and shared pins if any are a design choice.

In addition or in the alternative switching devices other than a Si H TFTs may have a negative stress mechanism that dominates during the operational period and may require a positive stress control mechanism functionally similar to the one described above. However there is no limitation to the polarity of the operational stress and the corresponding anti polarity of the controlled compensating stress.

In conventional driver or demultiplex circuits the opportunity for stress compensation is usually very limited due to the data dependence of the accumulated stress and or the inaccessibility or lack of control of many of the TFTs as required for stress compensation. In contrast the present teachings are well suited for stress compensation due to the data independent nature i.e. evenness of the accumulated stress patterns allowing large scale parallel stress compensation for the whole panel the ability to access both the sources and gates of the demultiplexing driver TFTs and the option to perform stress decomposition on the TFT system while it is still showing an image.

In addition or in the alternative the stress modulation technique can encompass a wide variety of techniques including but not limited to amplitude modulation frequency modulation pulse width modulation or combinations thereof. In addition or in the alternative the stress control period one or more optional stress monitoring periods and the frame update period can be temporally interleaved to affect a modulation of the compensating stress to the extent allowed by the nonlinear stress accumulation characteristics of the TFT devices.

Many choices on the specifics of the stress monitoring and stress modulation methods are available to designers skilled in the art there is no limitations on such design decisions. Modifying the device drive waveforms during a stress control period to balance the accumulated operational stress by forming a closed loop system as described in the present teachings is not limited by the specifics of the stress polarity stress monitoring structure or method nor the stress modulation method.

Persons skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of display resolutions specific scanning waveforms demultiplexing circuits stress monitoring device configurations either dummy or operational stress monitoring processes can be chosen to implement the present teachings.

In the second phase of the row select operation in the RS EVEN and RS ODD lines are both brought to a high voltage Vthat is passed through row pass gates M and M to V and V as shown in the output waveform . At the end of the second phase the RS EVEN and RS ODD lines are brought back to a low voltage V.

In the third and final phase shown in the RG line is brought to a voltage sufficiently low to allow the control TFTs to conduct and discharge the row state capacitors e.g. . This returns the states of M and M to the off condition.

For a non selected rows that do not share a RA 15 0 line but do share an active RS EVEN 7 0 and RS ODD 7 0 line with the selected row timing group neither the output rows nor the switch states are activated. For non selected rows that do share a RA 15 0 line but not an active pair of RS EVEN 7 0 and RS ODD 7 0 the operation is shown in waveform group in . The RG and RA voltage waveforms seen by the non selected row transistors are the same as the selected row they have the same effect to turn the M and M states to an on condition. Once in the on condition first the RS ODD line is pulsed to a mid level potential Vand then returned to V. In a preferred embodiment of the present teachings all the RS ODD 7 0 lines that are not selected to drive the pixel array with Vare pulsed in the same manner. The Vvoltage is chosen to be sufficiently positive to reset the negative stress accumulation mechanism in the pixel TFTs M and M of . Then the RS EVEN line is similarly pulsed to Vand returned to V. In a preferred embodiment of the present teachings all the RS EVEN 7 0 lines that are not selected to drive the array with Vare pulsed in the same manner. As a result of the positive pulses seen by the pixels shown in the right hand side of waveform the non selected pixel rows in timing group undergo a negative bias stress accumulation reset at a rate higher than the frame rate in this example 8 faster which allows lower frame rates without the accumulation of significant negative stress.

Those skilled in the art will recognize the voltage levels timing waveforms and sequence of operations such as inverting the order of the RS EVEN and RS ODD row de stress pulses can be modified to meet specific design requirements e.g. a frame rate display resolution pin count voltage range etc. The present teachings describe a method by which the demultiplex operation is broken into multiple phases e.g. select and turn on pass high voltage signals turn off that can be generally applied to many high voltage demultiplex system needs. The present teaching provide a technique wherein high voltage signals in the example of and one or more row voltages can be driven by a selection demultiplexer that is set up using only low Vcontrol signals to affect a binary on off state on a set of capacitors. By limiting the decode logic phase of the demultiplex operation to low data independent Vvoltages the positive stress normally associated with pass gate demultiplexing in a Si H TFTs is substantially mitigated without restricting the voltage ranges of the input output signals of the demultiplexer during the second operational phase of the demultiplexer.

Similar subcircuits not shown are attached to other row lines not shown to form a complete row demultiplexer. The common RG line goes to all row drive subcircuits. The RS line is one of Nrow source lines the RA line is one of Nrow select lines and the RB line is one of Nrow select lines. The number of output row lines that can be driven by an array of similar subcircuits as that share N Nand Ncontrol lines with a unique combination of RS i RA j and RB k for each output row line is N N N N. The total number of control lines necessary for this demultiplexer is N N N 1. For large numbers of row lines typically found in flat panel displays the present teachings enable a substantial reduction of pin count e.g. a 1024 row display requires 1024 driver IC pins if driven conventionally with N 16 N 8 and N 8 the total number of pins required for row demultiplex is 33 a 97 reduction in row drive pin count.

Those skilled in the art will recognize the extensibility of the present teachings to higher levels of demultiplexing e.g. a three level mux. The present teachings are not particularly limited by the number of mux levels or the number of row source or row control signals.

The two transistor pixel layout in comprises two series TFT devices M and M that allow the transfer of charge to occur between V and V . The row signals V and V run horizontally across the pixel array and are driven by pairs of row signals such as V and V of . The storage capacitor C is connected to a back plate node PC . The pixel storage capacitor C is preferably attached via one or more contacts to a reflective electrode that is the bottom plate of the liquid crystal capacitance C. The opposing electrode forms the other plate of C and is attached to a common pixel voltage V. The RMS difference in voltage between V and V determines the optical state of the liquid crystal . In a preferred embodiment of the present teachings the reflective top electrode is designed to minimally overlap the column signal V to minimize parasitic coupling between V and V. In an additional embodiment the reflective top electrode is designed to minimally overlap the row signals V and V to minimize parasitic capacitance. In an alternative embodiment the reflective top electrode is designed to maximize the reflective area to boost reflectivity of the display. In yet another embodiment the reflective top electrode is designed to not occupy the full area of the pixel so as to permit the manufacture of a transparent area per pixel not shown to create a transflective display as is commonly known in the art. Such modifications and particular embodiments can be tailored to the display application the present teachings do not limit the optical arrangement of reflective and transmissive elements.

In one embodiment the V node is modulated continuously to reduce the required voltage range of the TFT devices and or reduce power. shows a representative LCD reflectance as a function of applied RMS voltage . An AC signal on the V electrode induces a common RMS voltage on the entire pixel array V. The additional pixel information is additive RMS voltage and controls the optical state of the flat panel. Typically C is much larger than C so that modulation of the Vsignal can provide substantial RMS energy to the LCD efficiently without as much power penalty as modulating the pixel voltage and hence C directly.

The choice of two row select gates per pixel M and M in is for illustration purposes only in practice the number of row transfer TFTs in each pixel will be a design choice based on the TFT process parameters the size and resolution of the display the desired frame rate the allowable flicker and other performance criteria. In the present teachings two or more row transfer TFTs are required to prevent negative stress accumulation at very low frame rates as described herein. Such choices are considered within the scope of the present teachings.

A three phase row select operation is shown in . In the first phase of the row select operation the RS 23 0 lines are brought to the low row control voltage e.g. V as before. The RG voltage is set to a voltage that is sufficiently high to turn on M of . One of the RA 31 0 lines is then driven to a voltage enough above the RG voltage so that the row control capacitors corresponding to the selected RA 31 0 line i.e. every 32row C C . . . in is programmed to an on state by the voltage applied on the RG pin . The RA 31 0 lines are then returned to a low voltage as shown in waveform . At the end of this first phase a number of rows pass TFTs e.g. M in for the first row 24 total in this example have been turned to the on state.

In the second phase of the row select operation the desired row s RS 23 0 line is pulsed high to Vto drive a single row select signal into the pixel array . In a preferred embodiment of the present teachings the RS 23 0 waveform is given a slower fall time to allow for settling time of the row pass transistor M in . In addition or in the alternative the rising edge of the gate voltage on the selected RA 31 0 can be given a slower rise time to keep the Vof the row pass TFT e.g. M in as low as possible during switching events. Those skilled in the art will recognize that a wide variety of rise and fall rates can be applied to the present teachings for various effects. The present teachings are not particularly limited by the choice of rise and fall times of the driving signals.

In a third and final phase of a row selection the same RA 31 0 select line selected above is made sufficiently positive above a low RG voltage to discharge to Ccapacitor and return the row switch states to all off .

The non selected cases are similar to those described above the non selected row operation in receives the RA 31 0 activation but not the RS 23 0 activation . In this case the row voltage is held at V. The non selected row operation is for the case where the row receives the RS 23 0 pulse but does not receive the RA 31 0 activation. As shown in timing group the switch state is maintained at the off state similar to that depicted in . Thus the non selected rows to a constant Vare driven as required by conventional scanning.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the exact sequence of the actions taken e.g. that the rows are processed sequentially can be modified to achieve a similar end. Some advantageous changes e.g. writing all even rows first then all odd rows and or partial display refresh can be adapted to the present system to reduce voltage swings and power dissipation by minimizing transitions while performing any number of inversion techniques including row column frame and dot inversion DC balancing. Such modifications and permutations are considered within the scope of the present teachings.

Many applications of flat panels can make use of a variable frame rate or variable area refresh the present teachings are particularly well suited to applications where the frame rate must run fast for certain types of content e.g. 30 Hz frame rate when the user is actively interacting with the device but also needs a low power state where frame refresh rate can drop to a few Hz. To achieve this with the present teachings the control gate voltage overdrive of the row and column pass transistors can be temporarily increased to speedup the TFT settling time. As long as such high frame rates are not sustained for long periods of time the positive stress accumulation of high frame rate operation is minimal. In an additional embodiment the modulation of negative stress as described above in the present teachings can advantageously compensate for excess positive stress accumulated by temporary higher frame rate operation.

Sixteen CA lines and thirty nine CS lines are used to drive the column demultiplex circuit . In this embodiment 624 column lines can be written in a sequence of column write operations by modulating the CA and CS lines.

Four RS lines sixteen RA lines twenty RB lines one RG line and two DC lines are used to drive the row demultiplex circuit which in turn generates 320 wires for driving the pixel array . The row demultiplex drive signals can be preferentially driven to perform a row write operation to store the information on the column lines into the pixel array as well a perform periodic row exchange operations to mitigate accumulated stress in the TFTs of the pixel array .

The pixel voltage VPIXEL is written to the cell by holding the VCOM lines in a high or low state storing a voltage on the column line VCOL which is connected to the source of M . M is activated by pulsing its gate VROWA to a high potential while simultaneously pulsing the gate of M VROWB to a high potential to increase the electrical conduction from VCOL to VPIXEL through the series connection of M and M . Electrical charge is stored on the VPIXEL node and isolated from leaking away by maintaining at least one of the row gate lines VROWA or VROWB at a negative potential. The pixel charge is stored relative to VCOM on both CST and CLC .

Those skilled in the art will recognize the wide variety of possible layout configurations of the pixel of the present teachings. The present teachings can be modified to route the column and row lines through or around the cell in many different ways that do not alter the electrical connectivity or operation of the pixel circuit. Additionally the arrangement of the storage capacitor shown below the pass transistors in can be varied to accommodate any number of configuration requirements and manufacturing requirements. The transistors M and M may be divided into subunits while maintaining the function of the concepts described herein. The storage capacitor CST may also be divided into multiple sections while maintaining the electrical purpose as described in the present teachings. In the preferred embodiment an RGB stripe configuration is adopted although the present teachings can be generally applied to any pixel arrangement including without limitation RGB delta configurations RGBW configurations and any other subpixel arrangements as are well known in the art. Such modifications to the layout and circuit schematic are commonly done to meet application requirements and are considered within the scope of the present teachings.

Once an entire bank of pixels is written decision a row exchange operation is performed. The row exchange operation first lowers the voltage of all of the higher resting row lines then raises all of the voltages of the previously lower row lines to the higher resting voltage. By alternating the pixel transistors between the lower charge retention gate voltage and the higher stress reduction voltage at a rate higher than the frame rate of the panel the frame rate can be lowered substantially without incurring negative stress bias that can substantially reduce panel lifetime. By lowering the frame rate a substantial savings in power dissipation can be achieved.

Once the entire frame is written decision a compensation operation can be optionally added to measure various TFT transistor and operational performance parameters that can be used to adjust drive voltages and or temporal modulation of the driving waveforms to improve among other things uniformity contrast power dissipation stress reduction lifetime and other desirable qualities of the display.

The column demultiplex circuit for a single column comprises a pass transistor M that connects a CS line at its source to a column line VCOL at its drain. A parasitic capacitance CCC to other nodes mainly COM stores charge that is gated by M during a column write operation . The gate of M is connected to a CA line .

The row demultiplex circuit for a single row comprises six TFTs. Drive signal RG is connected to the sources of M and M . The gates of M and M are driven by one of the sixteen row bank select signals RA . The drain of M drives the gate of transistor M and storage capacitor CRX . The source of M is driven by one of the twenty RB signals RB . The gate storage capacitor CRX is connected between the gate and drain of M . The drain of M is further connected to the gate of M which has its source driven by RS and drain connected to the row line VROW . The gate storage capacitor CRR is connected between the gate and drain of M .

The drain of M drives the gate of M whose source is connected to drive signal RB . The gate storage capacitor CRX is connected between the gate and drain of M . The drain of M further drives the gate of M whose source is driven by drive signal RS . The gate storage capacitor CRR is connected between the gate and drain of M . The drain of M drives the row line VROW into the pixel .

In the second phase of the RB and RB lines are driven to a sufficiently high voltage to activate M and M .

In the third phase of the RB and RB lines as well as the RS and RS lines are driven to high potential so that the row lines VROW and VROW are driven to a high voltage due to the on state of M and M . By pulsing the row gates VROW and VROW the column voltage VCOL is driven onto the pixel storage node VPIXEL as desired. Row lines that did not have both the corresponding RA selection and RB selection activated maintain a low potential since they are not driven. In this way a single row of pixels can be selected.

In the fourth phase of the RS and RS are reduced to two resting voltages. RB and RB are also reduced to turn off M and M as shown in state timing diagram . At the end of the fourth phase the RA signal is pulsed above a lowered RG voltage so that M and M are turned to an off state which is stored on gate storage capacitors CRX and CRX respectively. In the last step the RA signal is reduced to a low voltage to turn M and M off as well.

The row exchange operation can operate on multiple banks simultaneously. In a preferred embodiment the rows are written with pixel voltages alternatively above and below the COM voltage level. As a consequence above and below rows of pixels will have different requirements for resting row voltages. It is often advantageous to break up the row exchange operation into additional phases not shown that address subsets of the row signals that have common voltage levels. Such modifications are dependent on application design choices and are within the scope of the present teachings.

