---

title: Apparatus and method for integrating nonvolatile memory capability within SRAM devices
abstract: A nonvolatile static random access memory (SRAM) device includes a pair of cross-coupled, complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) inverters configured as a storage cell for a bit of data and a pair of magnetic spin transfer devices coupled to opposing sides of the storage cell. The magnetic spin transfer devices are configured to retain the storage cell data therein following removal of power to the SRAM device, and are further configured to initialize the storage cell with the retained data upon application of power to the SRAM device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07692954&OS=07692954&RS=07692954
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07692954
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070312
---
The present invention relates generally to integrated circuit memory devices and more particularly to an apparatus and method for integrating nonvolatile memory capability within static random access memory SRAM devices.

A typical SRAM device includes an array of individual SRAM cells. Each SRAM cell is capable of storing a binary voltage value therein which voltage value represents a logical data bit e.g. 0 or 1 . One existing configuration for an SRAM cell includes a pair of cross coupled devices such as inverters. With CMOS complementary metal oxide semiconductor technology the inverters further include a pull up PFET p channel transistor connected to a complementary pull down NFET n channel transistor. The inverters connected in a cross coupled configuration act as a latch that stores the data bit therein so long as power is supplied to the memory array. In a conventional six transistor 6T cell a pair of access transistors or pass gates when activated by a word line selectively couples the inverters to a pair of complementary bit lines. Other SRAM cell designs may include a different number of transistors e.g. 4T 8T etc.

As is the case with other types of volatile memories data within a conventional SRAM is lost once power is removed or deactivated. In contrast nonvolatile RAM devices retain the cell data when its power supply is turned off by utilizing a floating gate transistor having a charge placed thereon to modify the threshold voltage V of the device in a manner that reflects the state of the data retained in the cell. This type of device is well known in the art and may generally be classified according to three types of nonvolatile RAM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and Flash memory that may be erased and programmed in blocks consisting of multiple locations.

Although the read performance of nonvolatile RAM e.g. Flash devices is somewhat adequate in terms of speed the write operation of these devices is much slower e.g. on the order of a few milliseconds as compared to the nanosecond range of an SRAM device. Similarly the power involved in a non volatile read is comparable to that of an SRAM however the power involved in a write operation is much greater for the non volatile cell. Accordingly it would be desirable to be able to combine the speed performance characteristics of an SRAM device with the non volatility of floating gate devices and in a manner that minimizes increases in device real estate so as to result in a so called universal memory. 

The foregoing discussed drawbacks and deficiencies of the prior art are overcome or alleviated by a nonvolatile static random access memory SRAM device. In an exemplary embodiment the SRAM device includes a pair of cross coupled complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS inverters configured as a storage cell for a bit of data and a pair of magnetic spin transfer devices coupled to opposing sides of the storage cell. The magnetic spin transfer devices are configured to retain the storage cell data therein following removal of power to the SRAM device and are further configured to initialize the storage cell with the retained data upon application of power to the SRAM device.

In another embodiment a method of integrating nonvolatile capability within a static random access memory SRAM device includes coupling a pair of magnetic spin transfer devices to opposing sides of an SRAM storage cell the SRAM storage cell further comprising a pair of cross coupled complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS inverters configured to store a bit of data therein and wherein the magnetic spin transfer devices are configured to retain the storage cell data therein following removal of power to the SRAM device and are further configured to initialize the storage cell with the retained data upon application of power to the SRAM device.

In still another embodiment a method for implementing nonvolatile retention of a data bit stored in an SRAM cell includes charging a programming node to a first bias voltage about halfway between a logic high voltage and a logic low voltage of the SRAM cell respectively coupling one side of a pair of magnetic spin transfer devices to opposing sides of an SRAM storage cell through activation of a pair of pass gate devices with an opposite side of the pair of magnetic spin transfer devices coupled to the programming node so as to pass current through a first of the magnetic spin transfer devices in a first direction and to pass through a second of the magnetic spin transfer device in a second opposite direction wherein passing current in the first direction causes programming of the first magnetic spin transfer device to a low resistance state and passing current in the second direction causes programming of the second spin transfer device to a high resistance state and removing a source of power to the SRAM cell upon achieving the low resistance state in the first magnetic spin transfer device and achieving the high resistance state in the second magnetic spin transfer device wherein the data stored in the SRAM cell prior to power source removal is maintained within the pair of magnetic spin transfer devices following power source removal.

Disclosed herein is an apparatus and method for integrating nonvolatile memory capability within SRAM devices so as to result in a universal memory through modification of an existing SRAM structure. Briefly stated the present disclosure introduces an apparatus and method for combining spin valve MRAM Magnetic Random Access Memory elements with an SRAM cell to result in an SRAM technology that provides the added advantages of a nonvolatile write and read command.

MRAM is an emerging non volatile memory technology. Historically MRAM technology is based on a structure referred to as a Magnetic Tunnel Junction MTJ which may be thought of as a programmable resistor. The state of an MTJ is traditionally switched by magnetic fields created by currents flowing in the selected bitline BL and wordline WL . One particular type of low power magnetic field based approach to writing MRAM devices is known as toggle mode switching which uses a multi step write with a modified multi layer cell. The cell is modified to contain an artificial antiferromagnet where the magnetic orientation alternates back and forth across the surface with both the pinned and free layers consisting of multi layer stacks isolated by a thin coupling layer. The resulting layers have only two stable states which may be toggled from one to the other by timing the write current in the two lines so one is slightly delayed thereby rotating the field. Any voltage less than the full write level actually increases its resistance to flipping. Thus other cells located along one of the write lines will not suffer from the half select problem allowing for smaller cell sizes.

However an even newer usage of the materials and physics used in MRAM technology is for a spin transfer device or a spin valve. This structure is almost physically identical to the MTJ but the magnetic and tunneling qualities of the structure are different such that the switching write mechanism is different with respect to field switched MRAM devices. More specifically a spin transfer device of spin valve uses spin aligned polarized electrons to directly torque the domains. If the electrons flowing into a layer are caused to change their spin a torque is developed that is transferred to the nearby layer. This in turn lowers the amount of current needed to write the cells making it about the same as the read process. Electrically speaking such a device is a programmable resistor that is switched by passing current through the device. A high resistance state is set by passing current in one direction while a low resistance state is set by passing current in another direction. As described in further detail hereinafter such spin transfer devices may be advantageously combined with SRAM cells to provide nonvolatile capability during power on off operations of the memory device.

Referring initially to and there is shown a schematic diagram of a conventional SRAM cell structure which represents a single memory cell included within a memory array arranged in rows and columns. The SRAM cell structure includes a six transistor memory cell that is capable of storing a binary bit of information. Specifically the memory cell includes a pair of cross coupled complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS inverters depicted as I and I in . One inverter I includes an NFET storage transistor NI and a PFET load transistor P. Similarly a second inverter I includes an NFET storage transistor N and a PFET load transistor P.

Transistors P and P are often referred to as pull up transistors because of their coupling to the voltage source V. Transistors N and N are similarly referred to as pull down transistors because of their coupling to ground. The memory cell further contains NFET access transistors also referred to as pass gates NL and NR serving as switches each of which are coupled between the bistable circuit P N P and N and a pair of true and complementary bit lines BLT and BLC respectively. Pass gates NL and NR are activated by an appropriate signal generated on a wordline WL. As indicated previously however the conventional memory cell loses the data stored therein once device power is removed. Upon restoring power to the cell it will arbitrarily assume one of the two stable logic states after a brief metastable period.

Therefore in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is a schematic diagram of an SRAM cell configured with a pair of magnetic spin transfer devices for nonvolatile capability. In the embodiment depicted it will be noted that in addition to a first port for conventional SRAM read write operations i.e. complementary bitlines BLT and BLT coupled to the cell nodes A and B through pass gates NL and NR controlled by a first wordline signal WL a second port is also provided for nonvolatile storage. More specifically the second port includes an additional pair of bitlines BLT and BLC respectively coupled to the magnetic spin transfer devices . The magnetic spin transfer devices are in turn respectively coupled to cell nodes A and B through another set of pass gate devices NL and NR controlled through a second wordline signal WL. Although certain existing SRAM designs may employ two separate ports this is conventionally done so as to enable concurrent read write operations to increase bandwidth as opposed to using a second port for non volatile storage during power off power on operations as described below.

The second port is used for nonvolatile storage in both a write STORE mode of operation and a read RESTORE mode of operation as described below. As indicated above the magnetic spin transfer devices are used as programmable resistances the values of which depend on the direction and magnitude of the current passed therethrough.

The orientations of the magnetic moment of the free layer are also known as parallel and antiparallel states wherein a parallel state refers to the same magnetic alignment of the free and reference layers while an antiparallel state refers to opposing magnetic alignments therebetween. In terms of resistance when the magnetization of the free layer is parallel to the magnetization of the pinned reference layer the resistance of the magnetic element is low. Conversely when the magnetization of the free layer is antiparallel to the magnetization of the reference layer the resistance of the magnetic element is high.

Referring once again to during normal power on operations the magnetic elements are isolated from the SRAM cell nodes A and B but are utilized during non volatile power down STORE and power up RESTORE operations as follows 

To store the data from the SRAM cell in preparation for removing power to the device i.e. a STORE operation both bitlines BLT BLC in the second port are charged to an intermediate logic voltage value V 2. Collectively BLT and BLC may be referred to as a programming node. Then the WL signal is brought high so as to facilitate current flow through the spin transfer devices . Depending on the logical state of the SRAM cell current will flow from one of the bitlines BLT BLTC into the SRAM cell node on one side and out from the SRAM cell node to the other of the bitlines from the other side. In turn the difference in current flow direction will program one of the spin transfer MRAM devices into a high resistance state and the other into a low resistance state.

By way of specific example it will be assumed that node A has a logical 1 stored thereon and node B has a logical 0 stored thereon at the time of the nonvolatile STORE operation. When BLT and BLC charged to V 2 are coupled to the cell nodes current will flow out of node A since node A is charged to V through spin transfer device to BLT. At the same time current will flow from BLC through spin transfer device to node B being at ground . Assuming the spin transfer devices are similarly oriented with respect to the cell nodes the opposing current flow directions program one of the spin transfer devices into a high resistance state and the other into a low resistance state as stated above.

For a RESTORE or power up operation it is assumed that the chip has been shut off without power for some period of time but with the memory data successfully maintained therein in a nonvolatile manner such as by the STORE operation described above. Upon activating power to the chip each of the SRAM latches of the device will arbitrarily assume a logic state based upon factors such as processing defects e.g. in voltage threshold characteristics or random power anomalies in the chip. Through implementation of a RESTORE command both bit lines BLT and BLC in are brought in one embodiment to ground. The WL signal is activated to then couple the cell nodes A B to the spin transfer devices which were previously programmed high low resistance states. Whichever of the two nodes spin transfer devices has the low resistance state programmed therein will provide a more conductive path to the bitline grounded in this case .

If the low resistance spin transfer device happens to correspond to the node that initially powered up to logic low then the SRAM node coincidentally powered up to the correct state and will not be flipped by the RESTORE operation. On the other hand if the SRAM node powered up to the opposite state i.e. the node powering up to Vcorresponds to the low resistance spin transfer device then the low resistance path to ground will cause the storage node to flip its state. In other words the low resistance spin transfer device offers a lower resistance to ground compared to the high resistance spin transfer device and this relative difference in paths to ground causes the SRAM cell to flip its state. Thereafter WL may be deactivated so that the SRAM can then operate as normal during power on conditions through the first port i.e. through bitline pair BLT BLC .

It should also be appreciated that the SRAM cell could also be logically configured such that in the RESTORE mode of operation BLT and BLC are brought to Vinstead of ground. In this case the cell node corresponding to the low resistance spin transfer device would be brought to or maintained at Vinstead of ground. That is the low resistance spin transfer device would offers a lower resistance path to Vcompared to the high resistance spin transfer device and the relative difference in resistance paths to Vwould causes the SRAM cell to flip its state.

From a wiring standpoint it will further be appreciated that although the embodiment of depicts the spin transfer devices as being connected between the bitlines and the pass gates the spin transfer devices could alternatively be connected between the pass gates and the cell nodes. That is spin transfer device could be connected between pass gate NL and cell node A spin transfer device could be connected between pass gate NR and cell node B. In such a configuration the spin transfer devices would be completely isolated with respect to both voltage and current on the bit line by the pass gates during normal power on operations. On the other hand a design tradeoff would be the additional wiring used to connect from the cell node located on the wafer level up to the spin transfer device located in the mid to upper wiring levels due the sensitivity of magnetic materials to thermal processes and back down to the pass gate connection on the wafer level.

As presently depicted the spin transfer devices are isolated with respect to current by the pass gates but are not isolated as to voltage on the bitlines. However since spin transfer devices are written with currents and not voltages the normal power on operations of the SRAM device do not affect the programmed state of the spin transfer devices. This is because the level and duration of any current experienced by the spin transfer devices in SRAM cell read write operations are orders of magnitude too small with respect to the amounts involved in programming a spin transfer device. It is also possible to design a SRAM chip that has a power on sequence that first powers the drivers of the pass gates thereby reducing the opportunity for stray current to flow through the MTJ. Moreover the wiring becomes more simplified in that the spin transfer device is coupled to substrate transistor devices only on one side the other side is connected to bitline wiring.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic diagram of a nonvolatile SRAM device in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the invention. In one respect device is a more simplified version of in that the bitlines used in the second programming port need not comprise a complementary pair of bitlines true complement as would be the case for a conventional SRAM port. Since the bitlines are charged to the same voltage in either the STORE and RESTORE modes of operation e.g. V 2 ground V a single common node can be used as a global programming node for both spin transfer devices as well as for corresponding spin transfer devices in other SRAM cells. In the common global programming node is designated as BL. Thus in addition to being a common node for the illustrated cell in BL can also be global for all SRAM cells on a chip block.

Finally is a schematic diagram of a nonvolatile SRAM device in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the invention. In contrast to the embodiments of the SRAM device of utilizes a single port for normal powered SRAM operations as well as for the nonvolatile STORE RESTORE operations when power is disconnected connected to the device. Because the resistances of the spin transfer devices are in line with the cell during regular READ and WRITE operations a performance tradeoff is the presence of an additional resistance in series with the latch versus a multi port design having additional capacitance on the SRAM nodes .

In terms of specific programmed resistances ranges and differences between the high resistance state and low resistance state such design values are tunable in that multiple MTJ spin transfer devices may be arranged in series to increase the absolute signal resistance value . The relative signal with respect to the high and low programmed states is limited as a practical matter by the MTJ technology and has been demonstrated to range from 20 to 200 MR magnetoresistance wherein R R 1 MR . The absolute signal from a single MTJ spin transfer device R has been demonstrated to range from about 100 to about 2 K and is also tunable.

With respect to performance the most time consuming operation of the nonvolatile SRAM embodiments would be the program the programming of the spin transfer devices during the STORE operation prior to system power down. The MTJ spin transfer devices are programmed as a direct function of current density and time. The more current provided the quicker the free layers of the device are programmed flipped and vice versa. As such the programming time of a spin transfer device is primarily determined by the size of the pass gate access transistors and the transistors inside the latch itself.

Although the spin transfer devices are programmed by current passing therethrough the time taken to do so is much greater than the time needed to restore or flip the SRAM cell. Thus the prospect of unintentional programming of the spin transfer devices while writing the SRAM cell is not of any significant concern. Furthermore the current coming out of the SRAM cell in a STORE operation should not allow the SRAM cell to lose its programmed state. In this event the cell data could be lost before such time as the current has successfully programmed the spin transfer devices to the correct nonvolatile storage resistance values. The simplest solution to this issue is to size the pass gate access transistors small enough such that the SRAM cell will not be flipped during restore. Another option is to apply a voltage on the pass gate wordline to a value below Vto limit the current.

As mentioned above magnetic stack technology has a low thermal budget although it has been demonstrated to be viable anywhere in the back end of line BEOL process. However in order to minimize thermal exposure it is desirable to form the magnetic devices closer to the end of the process to minimize the thermal exposure. This also provides the additional flexibility of being able to differentiate between a conventional SRAM device and a nonvolatile SRAM device at a later point in time in the manufacturing process.

Thus configured the above described embodiments allow for a SRAM module to be expanded into a nonvolatile memory module while still having approximately the SRAM performance. The chip differs from a standard SRAM in that it can power down through a sequence that will retain the data for a power up sequence that can restore its last known state. The chip also differs from a standard MRAM or FLASH chip in that standard operation of the chip is identical to that of an SRAM with a marginal reduction in performance.

While the invention has been described with reference to a preferred embodiment or embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

