---

title: High-resolution, continuous field-of-view (FOV), non-rotating imaging system
abstract: A high resolution CMOS imaging system especially suitable for use in a periscope head. The imaging system includes a sensor head for scene acquisition, and a control apparatus inclusive of distributed processors and software for device-control, data handling, and display. The sensor head encloses a combination of wide field-of-view CMOS imagers and narrow field-of-view CMOS imagers. Each bank of imagers is controlled by a dedicated processing module in order to handle information flow and image analysis of the outputs of the camera system. The imaging system also includes automated or manually controlled display system and software for providing an interactive graphical user interface (GUI) that displays a full 360-degree field of view and allows the user or automated ATR system to select regions for higher resolution inspection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07773121&OS=07773121&RS=07773121
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07773121
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070427
---
The present application derives priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 797 742 Filed May 3 2006.

The invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The present invention relates to electronic imaging systems and more particularly to a high resolution CMOS imaging system especially suitable for use in a periscope head that yields a continuous 360 degree field of view without mechanical rotation.

A periscope head is the top portion of a periscope that contains the lenses and mirrors used to observe what is outside certain vehicles including submarines armored cars spacecraft and their rovers.

Conventional periscope systems employ a full length sealed outer casing with an interior rotatable mast and various observation optics and sensors mounted on the mast. While theses optics used to be lenses many modern periscopes employ electronic imagers such as charge coupled devices CCDs . For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 347 010 to Chen et al. issued Feb. 12 2002 shows a a periscope with an IR sensor visible CCD camera and a laser range finder.

The instantaneous horizontal field of view FOV is defined as the field of view obtained at a single fixed observation point allowing for rotation of the eye about this point but not the translation of the eye s position. Because periscopes contain an entrance and exit aperture separated optically by some distance they form an apparent tunnel through which the observer sees. When the instantaneous field of view of a single periscope is limited by the entrance aperture one or both side walls of the tunnel will be seen by the observer. This is generally the case with conventional periscopes because their exit and entrance apertures are substantially the same size.

Thus current US Navy periscope sensor heads utilizes CCD technology with a variable X magnification field of view sensor.

Wide angle coverage has been attempted by arranging a plurality of periscopes side by side along an arc. However since each periscope has a limited field of view and one or both side walls of each periscope will always be visible these visible side walls will act as visual blockages.

Additionally whenever multiple imagers are employed the amount of data complicates the issue. Search and detection require wide field of view FOV tracking requires fast frame rate data output from regions of interest ROI target recognition requires high spatial resolution and multi target cueing requires all four of the foregoing. The use of an optical zoom is one way but an extremely inefficient way of carrying out these diverse tasks because it cannot simultaneously provide narrow and wide field of view scene visualization. It is often difficult for an operator to quickly zoom in and out of the ROI because of the vast changes in the FOV during zooming and relocating contacts within the search FOV which may be 50 higher magnification .

It would be greatly advantageous to provide an improved high resolution CMOS imaging system especially suitable for use in a periscope head that yields a continuous 360 degree field of view without mechanical rotation with electronically selectable low and high resolution fields of view environment. The foregoing would be well suited for use in a variety of vehicles and particularly in extraterrestrial rovers such as the Mars Science Laboratory MSL rover under development.

It is a primary object of this invention to provide an improved high resolution CMOS imaging system especially suitable for use in a periscope head that yields a continuous 360 degree field of view without mechanical rotation.

It is another object of the invention to provide a direct viewing system which affords a substantially continuous non obstructed 360 degree field of view.

It is another object to provide a non rotating 360 degree view and automatic or operator controlled display of the objects of interest within the sea surface shore and sky background from a periscope with continuous observation of theses contacts potential targets automatic detection and tracking of contacts recognition of contacts threat determination and the ability to digitally zoom to any area for closer inspection.

In accordance with the foregoing objects the present invention is a high resolution CMOS imaging system especially suitable for use in a periscope head that yields a continuous 360 degree field of view without mechanical rotation. The high resolution CMOS imaging system comprises two major elements a sensor head for scene acquisition and a control apparatus inclusive of distributed processors and software for device control data handling and display. The sensor head is a uniquely configured cylindrical head assembly suitable for use on the existing mast of conventional periscopes inside a full length sealed cylindrical outer casing. The sensor head further comprises multi camera decks of imaging arrays and preferably cylindrical decks stacked end to end in an elongate cylindrical form. The decks collectively enclose a combination of wide field of view CMOS imagers and narrow field of view CMOS imagers to yield an electronically electable low and high resolution fields of view environment. Each deck of imagers is controlled by a dedicated processing module in order to handle information flow that provides seamless autonomously georectified and stitched or fused scene data set and image analysis of the outputs of the fused camera system. The control apparatus also includes a display system and software for providing an interactive graphical user interface GUI that displays a full 360 degree seamless field of view and allows the autonomous system or the user to select regions for higher resolution inspection. The novel periscope head of the present invention can concurrently carry out a number of diverse visual tasks such as surveillance vision based navigation automatic target recognition ATR multi target cueing applications search and detection tracking etc.

The present invention is a high resolution CMOS imaging system especially suitable for use in a periscope head that yields an autonomously stitched and seamlessly continuous 360 degree field of view image with autonomously and or manually selected magnified subwindow regions of interest without any mechanical rotation.

The high resolution CMOS imaging system comprises two major components a sensor head for scene acquisition and a control apparatus inclusive of distributed processors and software for device control data handling and display.

The sensor head is a uniquely configured cylindrical head assembly suitable for use on the existing mast of conventional periscopes inside a full length sealed cylindrical outer casing. The sensor head further comprises a multi deck imaging array with seven 7 cylindrical decks A G stacked end to end. Structurally each deck A G is comprised of a cylindrical outer wall and closed internal partitions forming a honeycomb of compartments for the various imagers therein. The seven decks A G may be welded or otherwise engaged end to end.

Specifically the closed internal partitions of the uppermost deck A encloses four 4 wide field of view Full Field Imagers FFI arranged back to back as shown with 90 degree offset focal paths. The four wide field Full Field Imagers FFI preferably 92 degree or larger FFI s oriented at 90 degree offsets and convention CMOS 3100 2100 pixel imagers operating at 20 frames per second are suitable for this purpose.

Each subsequent lower deck B G houses four 4 narrow field of view Tracking Zoom Imagers TZI . Thus the lower six or more decks B G collectively comprise twenty four 17 degree or less Tracking Zoom Imagers TZI oriented at 15 degree or less offsets . Again conventional CMOS 3100 2100 pixel or alternate resolution imagers operating at 10 20 or higher frames per second are suitable.

In sum there are a total of four 4 wide field of view FFI imagers and at least twenty four 24 narrow field of view TZI imagers in a single sensor head . The resulting combination of wide and narrow FOV imagers allows for an electronically selectable low and high resolution seamlessly fused field of view environment with 360 degree angular coverage at low resolution and simultaneous 360 degree high resolution angular coverage.

All of the imagers may be commercial off the shelf CMOS imagers for example Silicon Imaging Inc. MegaCamera SI 6600 M or Rockwell Scientific BTBV 4K which are commercially available in either wide field of view or narrow field of view versions. Alternatively imagers may be specially fabricated Focal Plane Detector Array Imagers.

All four wide field FFI imagers are mounted in the top deck A to provide the 360 degree angular coverage four overlapped 92 degree or larger field of view wide field imagers oriented at 90 degree focal offsets to provide overlapping fields of view and the twenty four or more narrow field TZI imagers are mounted in six banks of four in the six or more lower decks B G to image the full field in high resolution collectively using twenty four or more seventeen degree FOV TZI imagers oriented at 15 or less degree focal offsets to provide overlapped fields of view .

Preferably each of the imaging cameras is equipped with an interface that provides integral image modification capability and specifically a sub sampling feature allowing the faster frame rates at reduced resolution for example 21.3 FPS for 1106 1502 pixels or 76.4 FPS for 554 752 pixels both at 40 MHz .

Frame windowing and sub sampling are controlled by a serial interface to the cameras from the processing electronics. The camera also provides for an external signal to allow synchronization between cameras.

In the illustrated embodiment the array of CMOS imagers resident in sensor head is controlled by six 6 separate processing modules in control apparatus in order to handle information flow and image analysis of the multiple outputs of the camera system. The separate processing modules include for example four 4 Tracking Zoom Imager TZI processors each to handle information flow and image analysis of one bank of six TZI imagers located for example in the six lower decks B G of the head . The processing modules also include one Full Field Imager FFI processor for managing the four FFI imagers in the top deck A plus one host processor and an optional automatic target recognition ATR Processor for high speed high precision target detection identification and tracking etc. All processing modules in control apparatus employ a uniform stacked board modular configuration as will be described and may be PC 104 CPU Modules.

The FFI processor and host processor are in communication with a display system that includes an interactive graphical user interface GUI capable of displaying a full 360 degree field of view and of allowing a user to select regions for higher resolution inspection.

Each of the TZI Processors four in this embodiment may comprise an embedded single board computer. For example PC 104 CPU Modules are well suited for this purpose a variety of which are available from various manufacturers.

Each of the four TZI Processors commands a respective bank of in this instance six Tracking Zoom Imagers TZI over a serial input output bus. Thus each TZI Processor acquires and processes data from a single bank of TZI imagers . Specifically the TZI Processors 

The FFI Processor may likewise comprise a PC 104 CPU Module and it routes degree low resolution image data to the Display System . Thus the FFI Processor acquires and routes data from the upper deck of low resolution FFI imagers to the display system .

The Host Processor may likewise comprise a PC 104 CPU Module for example and it commands and controls all the TZI processors and FFI processor . Thus the Host Processor provides overall command and control to the individual imagers and other processors and routes images to the display system . Specifically the Host Processor will 

The ATR Processor may likewise for example comprise a PC 104 CPU Module and it performs high speed high precision target detection identification and tracking and routes target tracking information to the Host Processor . There are a variety of possible ATR approaches and software that may be suitable for this purpose. For example Vasiliev et al. Real Time Smart Optical SAR Signal Processor Proc. SPIE Vol. 3161 p. 193 202 Radar Processing Technology and Applications II disclose signal processing for ATR applications using a coarse ATR processor that performs early detection of small targets to select regions of interest in a large field of view and a fine ATR processor for accurate classification of selected targets.

Here for example the topmost board is a power supply regulator. The next board is a CPU board comprising in this instance a PC 104 CPU Module as described above. The I O board comprises a conventional Ethernet and Serial interface. The frame grabber is a conventional component of computer vision systems designed for digitizing analog video signals. This board will typically comprise a circuit to recover the horizontal and vertical synchronization pulses from the input signal an analog to digital converter an NTSC SECAM PAL color decoder circuit and some memory for storing the acquired images e.g. a frame buffer and a bus interface through which the main processor can control the acquisition and access the data. The A2 board is the primary logic board for the high speed processor. The digital signal processing DSP board is in this instance an 800 MHz digital signal processor DSP . The foregoing boards are stacked and the height of the stack depends on the number of support cards but the area footprint for each unit is small approximately 10 cm 12.5 cm . The six PC104 stacks for all of the processors and plus the stack for the ATR processor are enclosed in a housing of for example 40 cm 50 cm 20 cm which results in a footprint approximately the size of a standard laptop PC.

When PC104 stacks are used for processors and a single PC104 processor is associated with each stack for a total of in this instance seven processors in the system four TZI s one FFI one Host and one automatic target recognition ATR .

The satellite TZI and FFI processors control the high and low resolution cameras frame size window resolution etc. and acquire and process the sensor data. The single host processor handles overall control of the satellite processors directing them to place their local cameras in the appropriate state and perform the necessary image analysis operations. A video card to support high speed display features may be used to augment the host processor .

The ATR Processor performs high speed high precision target detection identification and tracking and routes target tracking information to the Host Processor .

All of the above described image processing and system level control electronics are preferably configured in multiple PC104 stacks with processing and integrated I O and communication capabilities. The various processors and may be connected over a common communication bus and employ Gigabit Ethernet for communication protocol.

Each of the processors and require a real time embedded operating system for command and control data acquisition data handling image processing and navigation. A presently preferred operating systems are in this instance VxWorks a Unix like real time operating system made and sold by Wind River Systems of Alameda Calif. USA and QNX a Unix like real time operating system made and sold by QNX Software Systems of Ottawa Canada although one skilled in the art will readily understand that other systems may provide the same capabilities.

Each of the processors and also requires a real time software package to acquire and process sensor information platform telemetry scene interpretation etc. and generate the control behaviors for the system.

The display system is preferably a computer workstation with high resolution CRT or LC user input controls and hosting an interactive graphical user interface GUI capable of displaying a full 360 degree field of view and for allowing a user to select regions for higher resolution inspection and allowing user control of the periscope. The GUI displays low resolution 360 degree imagery and up to 4 high resolution views from the imagers providing scene displays and passing commands to the Host Processor . In addition the GUI allows the operator to exercise all of the operational states of the system search tracking display high resolution windowing etc. and provides a means to enable data collection for algorithm development and system evaluation.

For efficient surveillance and tracking the present system simultaneously provides both high and low resolution and wide and narrow FOV images with user selected ROIs that are spatially and temporally varied.

It should now be apparent that the above described high resolution CMOS imaging system for use in a periscope head excels at providing a seamless continuous 360 degree field of view with electronically selectable low and high resolution fields of view and allows continuous observation of contacts potential targets automatic detection and tracking of contacts recognition of contacts threat determination and the ability to digitally zoom to any area for closer inspection.

Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the appended claims.

