---

title: Layout and line routing composition
abstract: The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for the facilitating the layout and composition of graphics. Embodiments of the present invention allow declarative input for creation and modification of layout compositions and also allows adjustments or modifications made to layout compositions. Layout compositions may be created, adjusted, and modified by input through a markup language or by user-commands and gestures. Relationships and associations among nodes and among line segments and connections between nodes which are embodied within a composition or created by an auto layout are preserved both during and after adjustments and modifications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07949946&OS=07949946&RS=07949946
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07949946
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071017
---
Computer systems and related technology affect many aspects of society. Indeed the computer system s ability to process information has transformed the way we live and work. Computer systems now commonly perform a host of tasks e.g. word processing scheduling accounting etc. that prior to the advent of the computer system were performed manually. More recently computer systems have been coupled to one another and to other electronic devices to form both wired and wireless computer networks over which the computer systems and other electronic devices can transfer electronic data. Accordingly the performance of many computing tasks are distributed across a number of different computer systems and or a number of different computing components.

One task which has recently been made easier and more efficient by the use of computers is the creation and modification of graphic layout compositions. Layout compositions are constructs and documents made up of graphics text and possibly more which may be employed by businessmen engineers scientists and the like to describe and illustrate processes and constructs within their domains. An example of a layout composition is a flow chart depicting a particular computer program algorithm. Another example of a layout composition is a business process flow chart depicting the start to finish process of a particular business endeavor. An example of such layout compositions are those which may be produced using Microsoft s Visio .

Such layout compositions may generally include a number of nodes which represent particular items of interest in the particular domain. For instance a node may be a diamond or triangle which represents a business decision. A node may be a rectangle which represents a computer or business process. A node may be another shape which represents printing output on a particular printer. Nodes within a layout composition are limited only by the particular implementations of particular domain specific or generally applicable layout systems.

In complicated business systems and complicated computer processes the arrangement of a layout composition representing a system or process may itself become commensurately complicated. Manual layout of a representative layout composition may be inordinately time consuming or may be for some purposes impossible.

Because of the intricate and complicated nature of a process which is to be depicted it is often desirable to have automatic formatting of a layout composition i.e. auto layout . However auto layout of a layout composition may itself introduce correspondingly associated problems in a layout composition.

For instance a layout composition after an auto layout may evenly space a large number of parallel processes represented by nodes within the layout composition . A particular user of the layout composition might however desire that most nodes representing parallel processes be moved to the side as they may not be considered important. It may be desired by a user that a small number of the nodes representing parallel processes be grouped with greater spacing or in an area by themselves to indicate their relatively greater importance.

It is not always possible using existing layout composition methods products and systems to adjust or modify a layout composition which may have been formatted manually or by an auto layout. Even after having employed an auto layout it may be impossible to manually adjust or modify the layout composition because any change to any particular node or node formatting may entail a corresponding change or modification to those nodes associated with the modified node.

Furthermore when sharing a layout composition with others and allowing multiple authors to edit and update the composition making revisions such as adding a shape may be difficult and frustrating if the edit must be done manually and possibly disruptive if done by typical auto layout mechanisms because it often requires a recomputation of the layout algorithm which can cause a large degree of repositioning and thereby destroy a user s mental model of the system prior to a change.

Current layout composition products also generally require user interaction to create and modify a layout composition. Correspondingly it may be advantageous to be able to create or modify a layout composition using some type of structured input.

The present invention extends to methods systems and computer program products for the facilitating the layout and composition of graphics. The invention extends to both declarative input for creation and modification of layout compositions and also to adjustments or modifications made to layout compositions resulting from auto layout.

For example embodiments described herein provide for a method within a computing environment which receives declarative input for composing a layout composition. The declarative input includes node identifications and layout directives and indicates relationships associating nodes within a layout composition. The declarative input once received is interpreted to produce a layout composition in accordance with the declarative input. The composition may be output to an output device within the computing environment.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Another example embodiment provides for a method of composing a layout composition comprising both auto layout features and user directed adjustments. Input is received which includes a plurality of nodes which are to be included within a layout composition. Auto layout is applied to format the nodes within a layout composition and creates auto layout relationships associating at least some of the nodes. User commands may be received which comprise adjustments to the layout of the nodes. In response to the user commands the formatting of the nodes within the composition is modified in accordance with the user commands while the auto layout relationships between the nodes is preserved.

Systems and computer program products are also described in some embodiments which facilitate the creation and modification of layout compositions.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

The present invention extends to methods systems and computer program products for the facilitating the layout and composition of graphics. The invention extends to both declarative input for creation and modification of layout compositions and also to adjustments or modifications made to layout compositions resulting from auto layout.

For example embodiments described herein provide for a method within a computing environment which receives declarative input for composing a layout composition. The declarative input includes node identifications and layout directives and indicates relationships associating nodes within a layout composition. The declarative input once received is interpreted to produce a layout composition in accordance with the declarative input. The composition may be output to an output device within the computing environment.

Another example embodiment provides for a method of composing a layout composition comprising both auto layout features and user directed adjustments. Input is received which includes a plurality of nodes which are to be included within a layout composition. Auto layout is applied to format the nodes within a layout composition and creates auto layout relationships associating at least some of the nodes. User commands may be received which comprise adjustments to the layout of the nodes. In response to the user commands the formatting of the nodes within the composition is modified in accordance with the user commands while the auto layout relationships between the nodes is preserved.

Systems and computer program products are also described in some embodiments which facilitate the creation and modification of layout compositions. A computing system includes a layout module and an output device. The layout module is configured to receive input and to produce a layout composition. Further the layout module may receive declarative input user commands or both indicating a desired layout. The layout module can interpret the declarative input or the user commands. The layout module may also produce a layout composition in accordance with the declarative input or the user commands. The output device is configured to communicate with the layout module and to output the layout composition produced by the layout module.

Embodiments of the present invention may comprise or utilize a special purpose or general purpose computer including computer hardware as discussed in greater detail below. Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include physical and other computer readable media for carrying or storing computer executable instructions and or data structures. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer system. Computer readable media that store computer executable instructions are physical storage media. Computer readable media that carry computer executable instructions are transmission media. Thus by way of example and not limitation embodiments of the invention can comprise at least two distinctly different kinds of computer readable media physical storage media and transmission media.

Physical storage media includes RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer.

A network is defined as one or more data links that enable the transport of electronic data between computer systems and or modules and or other electronic devices. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a transmission medium. Transmissions media can include a network and or data links which can be used to carry desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

However it should be understood that upon reaching various computer system components program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures can be transferred automatically from transmission media to physical storage media. For example computer executable instructions or data structures received over a network or data link can be buffered in RAM within a network interface card and then eventually transferred to computer system RAM and or to less volatile physical storage media at a computer system. Thus it should be understood that physical storage media can be included in computer system components that also or even primarily utilize transmission media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. The computer executable instructions may be for example binaries intermediate format instructions such as assembly language or even source code. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the described features or acts described above. Rather the described features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers desktop computers laptop computers message processors hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers mobile telephones PDAs pagers routers switches and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed system environments where local and remote computer systems which are linked either by hardwired data links wireless data links or by a combination of hardwired and wireless data links through a network both perform tasks. In a distributed system environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

The computing environment also depicts a layout module which may be employed in the practice of the invention. The layout module is shown as encompassing the computer processor as well as computer memory . This illustrates that the layout module may in particular embodiments comprise various aspects of a typical or purpose made computing system. The layout module may employ both software and hardware and may employ any or all components features and aspects of the computing environment e.g. in which it is employed.

The layout module which may be included in the computer architecture and included in the system may be configured in accordance with the present invention to receive input and to produce a layout composition. The layout module may also be configured to receive declarative input which indicates a desired layout and may be configured to receive user commands indicating a desired layout. The layout module may also be configured to interpret the input e.g. declarative input or user commands and to produce a layout composition in accordance with the input.

The system may also include an output device which is configured to communicate with the layout module and to output the layout composition which is produced by the layout module. It should be noted that the output device being configured to communicate with the layout module does not necessarily constrain the output device to communicate directly with the layout module. The communication between the output device and the layout module may in fact occur through intervening modules or processes within the system or within any suitable computer architecture computing environment or data communications environment. For instance an output device may communicate with the layout module through a network .

The declarative input or the commands which may be user commands which are received by the layout module may be in the form of a markup language. Example markup languages but not by way of limitation are hypertext markup language HTML and extensible markup language XML . A markup language may also be given by an expressly defined language or application programming interface API developed in conjunction with the invention.

The declarative input or the commands which may be user commands which are received by the layout module may be in the form of gestures indicating adjustments to a layout composition e.g. resulting from an auto layout . Such gestures may be received through a suitable input device. Examples of such gestures may include selecting and dragging a node within a layout using a mouse or other pointing device. Such gestures may include selecting a node within a layout and selecting a particular action which for example could be a translation rotation alignment etc.

The declarative input or the commands which may be user commands which are received by the layout module may include Boolean operators to be applied to nodes within a layout composition. Such Boolean operators may include operators which when applied will selectively apply adjustments or modifications to the formatting associated with a node within a layout composition based upon the node s type e.g. if node type decision . . . the node s position within the composition e.g. if node position center . . . the node s relationship with other nodes e.g. if node child . . . or any other distinguishing characteristic identifiable and associated with a node within a layout composition.

As with the output device input may be received for instance from an input device . The input device may communicate with the layout module but such communication is not constrained to a direct connection. For instance the input may be communicated to the layout module through a network or may have been stored in a storage device for later communication to the layout module .

The computing architecture may also include at least one output device . There may however be included any number of output devices. The output devices may include displays such as CRTs LCD monitors projection monitors and printers. The output devices may also include devices for recording output in permanent storage recording output in a database or transmitting data over a network or through a wired or wireless medium.

The computing architecture may also include at least one input device . There may however be included any number of input devices. The input device may be a keyboard a mouse a card reader an interface to a database an interface to a network or an interface to wired or wireless medium. The input device may be any device or facility compatible with the invention which allows relevant data to be input to the computing system.

The computing architecture may also include at least one storage device . The storage device may be a hard disc a CD reader and or writer magnetic tape a database interface or any other device or facility compatible with the practice of the present invention.

The computing architecture may also include a network . The network includes any suitable data transmission medium as well as any and all interface devices or facilities relevant for the transmission of data over the network. For example the network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or even the internet as well as any and all interface hardware and software relevant for suitable data communications.

The computing architecture also depicts input and a layout composition . The input may be any suitable input relevant to the practice of the invention and may or may not come through the input device . Input may come through a network from storage from a keyboard or any suitable source of data. Similarly the layout composition depicted as output may be output through an output device but may also be output to or through any suitable facility such as a network storage a printer a display etc.

Although more specific reference to advantageous features are described in greater detail below with regards to the Figures embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used herein the term module or component can refer to software objects or routines that execute on the computing system. The different components modules engines and services described herein may be implemented as objects or processes that execute on the computing system e.g. as separate threads . While the systems and methods described herein are preferably implemented in software implementations in hardware or a combination of software and hardware are also possible and contemplated. In this description a computing entity may be any computing system as previously defined herein or any module or combination of modulates running on a computing system.

The method includes an act of receiving input . The input received may be declarative input for composing a layout composition. For example the input may be received through an input device . The declarative input may comprise node identifications and layout directives for a layout composition. The layout directives of the input may indicate layout relationships associating nodes within a layout composition.

The input may be declarative input or may be another form of input such as gestures provided by a mouse. Declarative input may be in the form of computer code in a particular computer language may be in the form of a markup language may be in the form of a natural language or may be in any form suitable for conveying the relevant information and which may be interpreted as herein described.

The declarative input may be written in a markup language. An example of such a markup language is illustrated by 

As can be appreciated the input can include node identification information which identifies nodes in many different ways all of which are both suitable and compatible with the present invention. Nodes may be identified by their relationship to other nodes. Examples of such relationships are parent child relationships. Nodes may be identified by their type within a layout composition. examples of such node identifications may be a start node a decision node a process node an output node or other such nodes. Nodes may be identified by their position within a layout or within a sub portion of a layout. Examples of such node identifications are center nodes or root nodes of radial layouts. As layout compositions may employ other ways of distinguishing nodes such as by color size typeface of enclosed font etc. any such identifiable characteristic may be used as node identification information which may be suitable when used within the input.

It may also be appreciated that the layout directives may include layout directive information which identifies many possible layout arrangements or formatting information. For instance layout directives may include information which indicates a layout or portion of a layout should be in a radial format. Layout directives may include information which indicates a layout or portion of a layout should be in a tree format.

Layout directives may include information which indicates a layout or portion of a layout should be aligned according to a particular alignment. Layout directives may include information indicating that a layout or portion of a layout should be translated or moved a particular amount in a particular direction. Layout directives may include information indicating that a layout or portion of a layout should be translated or moved a relative amount in a relative direction. For relative amounts or directions node identification information may be employed to provide the information necessary to determine such relative amounts or directions.

Layout directives may also include information indicating a formatting of a node or group of nodes should be linear curvilinear polygonal or follow any definable geometric shape. Layout directives may include information which indicates that nodes within a layout should be arranged according to a particular graph structure. Layout directives may also include information which indicates that a layout should follow a definable path or curve such as a specified Bezier curve. Layout directives may also include information which indicates that a layout a portion of a layout or nodes within a layout should be arranged in freeform fashion as directed or as manually positioned.

Layout directives may also include information indicating a formatting manner or style for line routing of line segments between nodes within a layout composition. illustrates such line routing as may be directed by such layout directives. For instance a layout directive may indicate that nodes arranged in a radial layout are to be connected with a straight line routing style which would result in the line routing of item . Layout directives may include information directing that line routing connections for a given shape should use Bezier or Spline routing as is illustrated in item . Layout directives may include information directing that whenever two nodes are connected by more than a particular number of line routing connections then the connections are to be pooled together using a particular bundling pattern. Such a pooling and bundling of eight connections between nodes is illustrated by item which after the pooling and bundling results in the line routing of item .

Layout directives may also include information which indicates that particular line routing segments are to be routed through a series of user defined points or locations within the layout composition. Such a routing for instance is illustrated by item . Layout directives may also include information which indicates that line routing for a number of connections are to be routed through a particular point or location within a layout composition. For instance such a line routing is illustrated by item .

The above examples of layout directives which specify the line routing of line segments within a layout composition are illustrative but should not be considered limiting. All such line routing directives and resulting line routing of segments within a layout composition are to be considered within the scope of the invention.

The input may also include Boolean commands which are applied to nodes within a layout. Declarative input or commands which may be user commands which are received may include Boolean operators to be applied to nodes within a layout composition.

Such Boolean operators may include operators which when applied will selectively apply adjustments or modifications to the formatting associated with a node within a layout composition based upon the node s type e.g. if node type decision . . . the node s position within the composition e.g. if node position center . . . the node s relationship with other nodes e.g. if node child . . . or any other distinguishing characteristic identifiable and associated with a node within a layout composition.

The method includes an act of interpreting the input . For example input may be interpreted by a layout module as discussed above within a computing environment as depicted in . Also by way of example the input may be provided through an input device . The input whether declarative or otherwise and whether codified in a markup language received in natural language form or otherwise is interpreted to determine the node identifications and the layout directive information as discussed herein. The layout module may in fact be comprised of separate input modules interpretation modules application modules and production modules for the interpretation application and production of layout compositions from the received input.

Interpretation of the input may include parsing the input to determine a portion of the input comprising node identifications. Such parsing and interpretation may as described herein determine the identity of nodes to which layout directives are to be applied. Such node identifications are illustrated herein as in the above example and may include root nodes e.g. node child nodes e.g. both and a node which is a child but has no children which is commonly called a leaf node e.g. both and and an intermediate node which is both a child node and a parent node e.g. both and .

Node identifications as may be appreciated are not confined to the relative positions of nodes within a hierarchy. Node identifications may include the type of node. Such types may include shapes such as dot circle rectangle triangle etc. Such types of nodes may also include the intended representation of the node. Such intended representations may include a start node end node a decision node a processing node and other such node representations which are known in the art. The node identifications of the present invention include such node representations as are commonly found in business flow and process charting in mathematical and engineering flow and process charting and other particular domains.

The node identifications as may be appreciated and as discussed herein may be any identifiable characteristic associated with a node within a layout composition. Such a characteristic may include the type of node such as a start node a decision node a process node an output node or other such type characteristic. A characteristic may include the color size or other graphic information associated with a particular node within a particular layout composition. A characteristic may include a relative position of a node such as whether a node is within the first third of nodes in a process or whether a node is a beginning node of a sub process. As may be appreciated any identifiable characteristic associated with a node in a particular layout may be used as node identification information.

The node identifications which may be parsed and interpreted may include all types of nodes or may be restricted by the methods and systems herein described to only those node types and identifications which are relevant within a particular domain. Examples of such particular domains would include business flow and processes mathematical or engineering flow or processes and other such domains.

Input may also comprise layout directives and interpreting the input may also include parsing the input for such layout directives and interpreting the layout directives. Examples of such layout directives are discussed herein and include radial layouts tree layouts aligned layouts snapped layouts grouped layouts and other such layouts as may be appreciated. Layout directives written in a markup language layout type Radial and layout type Tree are examples of such layout directives. Layout directives may also be self contained or may include subdirectives which indicate some refinement of a layout directive. A tree layout may be indicated by layout type Tree while a right facing tree e.g. node might be indicated by layout type RTree or by layout type Tree tree type Right which would be interpreted as a subdirective modifying the tree layout directive.

The method also includes an act of producing a layout . Once the input has been interpreted which may include parsing input comprising node identifications and layout directives a layout composition is produced in accordance with the input. For instance the layout composition is produced by the layout module in accordance with the input . The resulting layout composition will satisfy each of the node identifications and layout directives which were included within the input.

It should be noted that input may be complete information for producing a complete layout composition. The input may however provide information which is to be applied to a layout composition which has already been produced by any other means. The input may also be information which may be applied to nodes which are already contained within an already existing layout composition. If the input were complete information the nodes and the arrangement of the layout composition would be completely given and specified by the information in the input. If the input is to be applied to an already existing layout composition the node identifications and layout directives would be applied to the nodes and layout arrangement of the existing layout composition to produce a modified layout composition which is consistent with the information and directives contained within the input. In such a fashion a layout composition may be built created and or modified in an incremental fashion.

It may be noted that layout directives can be given through mouse keyboard touch or other natural and manual input devices and interpreted at runtime by the layout system resulting in an immediate but localized update to the artifact s layout.

It is important to note that the compositional aspects of the layout system allow for the mixing of freeform manually composed portions and auto layout within a single layout composition. This concept may be thought of as islands of layouts.

The method includes an act which is the output of a layout composition . For instance a layout composition produced by a layout module from input may be output to an output device . Once input has been interpreted and a layout has been produced as described herein the resultant layout composition may be output to an output device . Such an output device as may be appreciated may include a cathode ray tube CRT an LCD monitor a plasma screen monitor a printing device computer memory a storage device a database or any other suitable and compatible device.

As can be appreciated a layout composition may have been arranged by an auto layout facility functionality or algorithm. It would be advantageous to modify a layout composition which already existed as being produced or previously modified by an auto layout. It should be noted however that the methods and systems for modifying a layout composition are not limited to being applied to the result of auto layout but may also be advantageously applied to layout compositions which were produced by any other means.

The method includes an act of receiving input comprising a plurality of nodes to be included within a layout composition. For instance input may comprise nodes and format information used to form a layout composition. It may also be appreciated that the input used to form a layout composition may come in the form of a file retrieved from a storage device . The input may be by declarative input such as through a markup language input through a natural language system input through user interaction or input by other compatible means. The nodes to be included may be identified by node identification information included in the input. The input may also include layout directives. Such layout directives may be interpreted and applied to both create and to constrain the layout formatting of a resulting layout composition.

The method includes an act of applying auto layout to the layout composition. The application of the auto layout to the layout composition will be in accordance with the input received which may comprise node identifications and may comprise layout directives. The auto layout may also be in accordance with the parameters and constraints of a particular auto layout system.

The parameters and constraints of the particular auto layout system may comprise directives or constraints which are to be applied in relevant cases and to relevant nodes within a layout composition. Auto layout may for instance constrain all radial layouts to a circle of a particular radius. An auto layout may for instance constrain all tree layout directives to extend in a particular direction e.g. left right down up . An auto layout for instance may constrain all nodes which are children of a decision node to be formatted both below and a particular distance to the side of the parent decision node. As can be appreciated the application of auto layout to a layout composition can be useful to facilitate the efficient production of a layout composition but may also result in a layout composition which may not be considered by a user to be the optimum or best final layout.

Application of the auto layout also results in relationships associating one or more nodes within the layout composition. Such relationships may include which nodes are identified as parents or children of other nodes. Such relationships may include which nodes are arranged radially as a tree in alignment with or any other such relationships with respect to other nodes.

The method includes an act of receiving commands which may comprise user commands which comprise adjustments or modifications to the layout of the nodes within a layout composition. For instance commands may be received as input through an input device . Such commands may be received by user interaction through a mouse keyboard or other suitable input device or the commands may be received in another form such as through declarative input using a markup language or a natural language system through a file input from a database or any other suitable fashion. In another example such commands are received as an input file from a storage device .

The commands may comprise information which comprises adjustments or modifications to the layout composition or format of nodes within a layout composition. Such adjustments may include a rotation. A rotation is depicted in layout composition of . In the rotation of a group of nodes are identified by the commands. The commands also comprise a layout directive which when interpreted informs the method to rotate the nodes a particular amount e.g. degrees about a particular axis e.g. about the first selected node to result in the nodes being rotated in the resulting layout composition.

A translation is depicted in layout composition of . In this example case commands may comprise information identifying a particular node and further comprise a layout directive instructing the method to translate or shift the identified node in a particular amount in a particular direction. In this example the node in position after the application of the command is translated or shifted into position . Notably the relationships associating the nodes are preserved after the application of the adjustment or modification. For example the relevant node has the same parent and the same child when in the original position and in the resulting position .

When nodes within a layout composition are adjusted or modified the previous relationships associating nodes within the layout composition are preserved. For example the radial children of a central root node remain the radial children of the root node.

The preservation of the relationships associating the nodes is advantageous because another command may be applied or another auto layout may be applied after the application of the command. For instance a node which is arranged radially around a center node may be adjusted to be a larger radius away from the center than the other nodes arranged radially. In this case the relationship of center node child node and radially arranged is preserved after the application of the adjustment command. Because of the preservation of the association and relationship another auto layout application or constraint may be applied e.g. after the insertion of another node in the radial arrangement and the adjusted node will still be arranged radially around the center node and will still be adjusted to a position a larger radius away than that provided by the auto layout.

The method includes an act of modifying the format of the nodes within the composition in accordance with the commands. Further as described the adjustments or modifications of the formatting of the nodes in accordance with the commands occurs while preserving the auto layout relationships between the nodes as created or identified by the application of the auto layout.

The act of modifying the format of the nodes within a composition may comprise a rotation a translation or shifting a snapping of nodes onto a particular snap anchor an alignment of nodes in a particular direction or along a particular axis a linear adjustment a grouping of nodes or any arbitrary adjustment or modification.

It may further be appreciated that the layout composition which results from the adjustment or modification of an existing layout composition may also be output to an output device. For instance a layout composition may be output to an output device . Such an output device may be any suitable output device such as a CRT and LCD monitor a printer a color plotter computer memory a storage device a database or any other suitable device.

The present invention may also be described in terms of methods comprising functional steps and or non functional acts. The following is a description of steps and or acts that may be performed in practicing the present invention. Usually functional steps describe the invention in terms of results that are accomplished whereas non functional acts describe more specific actions for achieving a particular result. Although the functional steps and or non functional acts may be described or claimed in a particular order the present invention is not necessarily limited to any particular ordering or combination of steps and or acts. Further the use of steps and or acts in the recitation of the claims is used to indicate the desired specific use of such terms.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

