---

title: Architecture for master data management in an enterprise
abstract: Master data management and information exchange (MIX) architecture includes a technology agnostic framework that unifies sharing and management of master data across repositories, data formats and applications in an enterprise. The MIX architecture comprises at least one master data store which stores and updates master data for said enterprise; a management parameter store which assists in providing technology agnostic architecture for an adaptive extensible framework for unified master data; and, a unified interface for enabling master data discovery, sharing and use across the enterprise, wherein the unified interface comprises management interface, inbound interface and outbound interface. The MIX architecture might additionally include a data integration component, data quality component, and an abstraction layer. The present architecture enables extended MDM enterprise deployment and can be implemented as a stand alone solution or as an MDM veneer over existing applications without affecting overall system behavior and is technology independent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07660782&OS=07660782&RS=07660782
owner: WIPRO Limited
number: 07660782
owner_city: Bangalore, Karnataka
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20071005
---
This invention generally relates to improvements in managing master data in an IT Information Technology system and more particularly to architecture for sharing and managing master data enterprise data across IT systems in a unified and extensible approach.

Master Data Management herein MDM in known forms quickly and reliably creates a unified view of enterprise data from multiple sources. As known in prior art MDM can uniquely identify each instance of a business element customer product account etc. and represent these instances using a standardized data model. Creating a master data environment enables organizations to provide a single source of truth around which enterprise systems can be synchronized. MDM in one form requires extracting key data from diverse operational environments to create a system of record files establishing links to keep that system and operational system files synchronized and providing fast access across all operational systems to the master data without degrading operational performance. Efforts are being made to provide a viable software solution in an enterprise wide master data management system for harmonizing storing and managing master data over time. Some proposed software approaches attempt to increase the consistency and accuracy of corporate performance reporting by enabling business people to collaboratively control and manage master data in a workflow driven web based environment. Different types of master data include product customer supplier employee chart of accounts key performance indicator brand and more. When effectively implemented MDM provides a consistent context against which business performance can be measured.

In spite of efforts to provide useful master data management software master data in an enterprise is often duplicated and managed in multiple systems making it difficult to create consolidated views of business performance across the enterprise. This is particularly common in enterprises which regularly undergo mergers and acquisitions which introduce retire buy and sell product lines that open and close locations and that operate under different and changing regulatory environments across corporate divisions or geographic regions. This inconsistency makes it an arduous task to gain consolidated views of enterprise performance or compare results across the organization.

The implementation of current solutions adversely impacts enterprise deployment of MDM at least for the following reasons 

Master data is a critical component of any IT system. The IT landscape in any large or medium size organization usually has a number of disparate IT systems that need the same master data. Each IT system maintains a local store of master data that is required for its operation. This leads to redundant master data across IT systems that are typically out of synchronization with respect to each other. This results in suboptimal decisions and processes that use the available inaccurate master data.

There is therefore need for providing improved architecture for management of master data across repositories data formats and applications in an enterprise.

The invention provides novel technology independent architecture termed herein as Master data and Information eXchange MIX architecture which comprises an adaptive extensible framework for enterprise master data management which selectively includes several components as described hereinafter.

An example of the architecture described herein provides a technology agnostic framework that unifies the sharing and management of master data across repositories data formats and applications in the enterprise.

In a broad form the invention resides in a master data Management and Information eXchange MIX architecture including a technology independent framework that unifies sharing and management of master data across repositories data formats and applications in an enterprise the MIX architecture comprising a master data store means which stores and updates master data for the enterprise a management parameter store which assists in providing architecture for an adaptive extensible framework for unified master data and wherein the MIX architecture is configured for selectively connecting the master data store means and the management parameter store for providing a unified IT system across the enterprise. The terms master data store means and master data store herein are to be understood to include both a single master data store and a plurality of master data stores as may be necessary. Likewise the term store is to be understood to include a plurality of stores as necessary. The master data store is configured to interact with a data integration component unit and a data quality component unit. The data integration component unit and the data quality component unit are configured to function in a range of technologies in the enterprise. Further the data integration component unit includes elements for data integration data syndication and workflow execution and the data quality component unit includes elements for data profiling data cleansing and data de duplication wherein each of said elements may be veneered.

In another form the invention resides in a master data management and information exchange architecture including a technology independent framework that unifies sharing and management of master data across repositories data formats and applications in an enterprise the architecture comprising a master data store means which stores and updates master data for the enterprise a management parameter store which assists in providing architecture for an adaptive extensible framework for unified master data and a unified interface for enabling master data discovery sharing and use across the enterprise.

In a modified form as described herein the invention resides in a master data management and information exchange MIX architecture which is technology independent and including a framework that unifies sharing and management of master data across repositories data formats and applications in an enterprise the MIX architecture comprising a master data store means which stores and updates master data for the enterprise a management parameter store which assists in providing technology agnostic architecture for an adaptive extensible framework for unified master data and a unified interface for enabling master data discovery sharing and use across the enterprise wherein the unified interface includes a management interface inbound interface and outbound interface.

As described hereinafter in an example the MIX architecture is an adaptive technology agnostic extensible framework for enterprise master data management. One form of the present architecture explained hereinafter by way of example comprises selectively the following components 

As aforesaid prior forms of MDM architecture resort to using redundant master data across IT systems that are typically out of synchronization with respect to each other with consequent disadvantages. The present MIX architecture based solutions are intended to overcome the prior art shortcomings through a technology agnostic solution designed to enable discovery and management of master data in federated deployment.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below in the context of the accompanying figures that illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention. While the invention is described in connection with such embodiments it should be understood that the invention is not limited to any embodiment. On the contrary the scope of the invention is limited only by the appended claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. For the purpose of example numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention.

The present invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the present invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

In one embodiment as aforesaid the MIX architecture selectively includes a master data store management parameter store data integration component data quality component abstraction layer management interface inbound interface and outbound interface. The following attributes apply to an embodiment described as an example 

A solution that fully implements the present MIX architecture will provide full lifecycle MDM capabilities Consolidate Harmonize Syndicate Synchronize for master data from multiple data sources. Current systems typically address only part of the MDM lifecycle or are limited to a single source for master data.

The MIX architecture provides a unifying framework for the various components of an MDM solution typically delivered through a variety of technologies and products including typically a mixture of commercial off the shelf COTS products and custom developed components.

The master data store management parameter store inbound interface and outbound interface comprise the MIX data repository. The master data store is a data model that can support master data of multiple data types in a flexible extensible and technology independent manner. The management parameter store stores the control information that specifies the behavior of master data management processes and data representation.

Inbound and outbound interfaces are generally staging areas that are available for consolidation and syndication of master data data import and data export .

The MIX data repository is configured to be technology independent and for example can be implemented on a standard relational database.

The data integration component for example can be a specialized engine for data extraction transformation and load. This component is responsible for transporting MDM data.

The workflow component for example provides data governance mechanisms and policies for master data ensuring that changes to master data go through specified review and approval processes by named authorities.

The data quality component for example provides de duplication standardization and data cleansing functionality for master data.

The management interface for example can be a role based user interface that provides appropriate functionality for data visualization and data management to users and application administrators.

The abstraction layer is an application programming interface API that enables client systems to access and manipulate master data in well defined technology independent terms.

In the foregoing detailed description of embodiments of the invention various features are grouped together in a single exemplary embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description of embodiments of the invention with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. It is understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. It is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. In the appended claims the terms including and in which where present are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second and third etc. where used are to be understood as merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

