---

title: System for portal architecture
abstract: A system for a portal architecture may include a model service component. The model service component may be arranged to connect a presentation device to a business manager component. An aspect oriented architecture may be associated with the model service component. A service oriented architecture may be associated with the model service component, the service oriented architecture being arranged orthogonal to the aspect oriented architecture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08239830&OS=08239830&RS=08239830
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08239830
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20070208
---
This application claims the benefit of EPO Application No. 06022910.1 filed Nov. 3 2006 and Italian Application No. M12006A002104 filed Nov. 3 2006 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

A Service Oriented Architecture SOA framework may provide patterns for design development deployment and management of a loosely coupled business application infrastructure. In this framework business functionality may be published discovered and consumed as part of a business system of network and reusable technical and business services. In computing the term SOA may express a perspective of software architecture that defines the use of loose coupled software services to support the requirements of the business processes and software users. In an SOA environment resources on a network may be made available as independent services that can be accessed without knowledge of their underlying platform implementation.

A common challenge faced using the SOA framework is the management of services and data. SOA based environments can include many services which exchange messages to perform tasks. Depending on the design a single application may generate millions of messages. Managing and providing information on how services interact may be a complicated task. Another challenge may be providing appropriate levels of security. Applications which consume services particularly those external to company firewalls may be more visible to external parties than traditional proprietary applications. The flexibility and reach of SOA may compromise security. Also SOA may not guarantee reduced IT costs improved systems agility or faster time to market. Successful SOA implementations may only realize some or all of these benefits depending on the quality and relevance of the system architecture and design.

A system for a portal architecture may include a model service component. The model service component may be arranged to connect a presentation device to a business manager component. An aspect oriented architecture may be associated with the model service component. A service oriented architecture may be associated with the model service component the service oriented architecture being arranged orthogonal to the aspect oriented architecture.

These and other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent upon review of the following detailed description of the presently preferred embodiments of the invention taken in conjunction with the appended drawings.

A system and architecture are disclosed that may offer users advanced levels of access to websites. For example in the telecommunications industry a customer may find useful information about the telecommunication company s services products and solutions to problems through the company s website rather than having to contact a call center of the company. To improve the service provided by the company advanced functionality and multiple channels of access through a portal to the website may be offered to the users.

The portal system may connect to the backend systems via a middleware application . The middleware application may include an enterprise application integration software that manages the connection between the client portal and databases of the backend system . An exemplary middleware application may be BIZTALK by MICROSOFT or SERVICE BUS by TIBCO.

The backend systems may include databases for different services such as basic service set BSS operational support systems OSS and session description protocol SDP platforms . The BSS systems may include customer relationship management CRM billing enterprise resource planning ERP and contact centers. The OSS system may include service assurance configuration and network activation applications. The SDP platforms may provide for a unified directory UD internet protocol television IPTV third party gateway TPGW short message service multimedia message service SMS MMS or other protocols.

Regarding the layers the UI component may include defined presentation logic such as html css look feel and images page components such as portlets configuration and any other desired interface type components. The BPC includes implemented event handler components which may define navigation logic and separate presentation from the details of the navigation. The MSC handles common service implementations such as AOP logging caching exception handling data validation and security. In addition the MSC handles access to business functions such as those implemented by business managers as services such as local application programming interface API remote API calls and web services. The MSC may allow separation between presentation navigation implementations and business logic implementations.

The MSC may act as a proxy component between consumer applications or software components such as presentation navigation layers and business logic components such as BMC exposing to consumers a set of APTs services that can be invoked. In addition the MSC may perform authentication functionality to allow deny consumer to invoke the APIs services. The BMC may allow for business functions and delivered API. A data transfer object design pattern may be implemented by BMC components to separate the business logic implementation from the data encapsulation objects. Each business manager component may encapsulate business functions specific for any business entity such as customers billing accounts orders catalogs and services. The DAC and SGC may allow for encapsulating logic to access data sources and remote system and keeping the business logic and upper layer independent from the technical aspect. They may be implemented with a SQL Server Oracle and Web Services Cobra Remote Procedure calls or in other ways.

The MSC is a component that may logically act as Facade object the MSC may separate the consumer components as presentation navigation components from the business logic layer which is implemented by BMC . Additionally leveraging the Aspect Oriented Programming AOP paradigm the MSC may act as centralized component for implementing common logic as exception handling logging authentication authorization caching auditing transaction management data validation and others which may require the same logic to be replicated in many components. The Aspect components of the AOP may be configured to be applicable to any business component BMC with no need of additional coding. Another feature of the MSC is that it may enable access to the business functions available on the BMC thru different protocols a simple in procedure protocol b using web services SOAP protocol c via remote procedure call. This flexibility may enable the same set of functions to be called by local consumer components as well as remote consumer components.

The business logic and service gateway data access may be kept separate to enable portal re usability with different back end integration such as BizTalk Tibco Geneva Single View SQL Server Oracle without having to change the portal application layers. The configuration allows for greater flexibility with less coding. Also the arrangement allows for a high flexibility for integration with external application such as web content management system and other web applications.

The aspect oriented paradigm may be used to accommodate applications that have common crosscutting software related concerns. Logging is one example since the logging strategy may affect multiple parts of system. Aspect oriented programming may allow the crosscutting concerns to be managed in a centralized way through the introduction of software components referred to as aspects. The aspect can alter the base code by applying additional behaviors in a determined point of the application. In this way the strategy to manage concerns may be defined and modified with no impact on the base application code such that changes in the aspect code may have not impact on the application code. By running the AOP orthogonal to the SOA the SOA may create specific components with the logic to exploit service and the AOP may create generic components to manage the crosscutting concerns. In one example a customer portal AOP may be implemented in the MSC layer of .

Team B may define a GUI for a second set of capabilities. Layout information may be stored in the shared layout database . Layout information may include the page controls webparts displayed in each page the page webpart access rules the contents of each page webpart as labels text captions etc. Team B may define its own set of capabilities workflow. A state machine configuration for these capabilities may be stored in a Team B XML file. The web application may read the portal configuration from both Team A and Team B XML files. Layout configuration information may be retrieved from the layout database . The web application configuration may be the sum of the merged Team A and Team B XML configuration files. The Team A and Team B XML files may be published in a production environment together with the libraries that define the GUI components event handlers and business logic code.

A particular implementation may be used as follows. A customer portal may be designed as a multi tier web portal solution which may be built following a set of design paradigms and patterns that may give the solution a unique value. The customer portal may be a ready to use solution for deploying web portals which may define and implement a set of pre packaged capabilities integrating with disparate back end legacy applications seamlessly. The customer portal solution may follow and use the benefits of Service Oriented Architecture SOA . The customer portal s characteristics may include providing access to customer service capabilities e.g. order billing trouble management support attracting customers to web shops such as by making it more convenient for the customers to visit web shops focusing point of sale POS such that a sales channel may be easily used by a customer easy shopping payment and delivery with one or more clicks simple and user friendly UI easy sales and delivery process self service approach deliver a superior end to end user experience and speed up time to market delivery of new services.

The customer portal application architecture may be built by combining together sophisticated design principles that give the solution a unique value in terms of flexibility. Design concepts defined by the solution may include a multi tier application customer portal solution that may define many vertical logical application layers to separate the definition and development of 1 user interface components 2 process components 3 model service components 4 business manager components 5 service gateway components 6 data access components 7 business entity interface components 8 exception handling components and 9 session context components.

A logical separation between the layers may bring advantages and allow a great re usability of any application component. The customer portal architecture may address emerging needs of operators such as defining different presentations which leverages the same portal navigation and functionalities. Multiple web portals sites may be implemented with different look feel which may define the same navigation logic and the same set of functionalities. By leveraging the multi tier application architecture the presentation logic may be separated from the portal navigation logic. This may work especially well for multi country organizations that need to have multiple web portals e.g. one for each country leveraging the same infrastructure. The architecture may also allow multi channel delivery. The customer portal multi tier application architecture may allow the delivery of the same set of functionalities through different channels such as the web pda mobile voice etc. The architecture may also define a Portal Service Broker for Third Parties . The customer portal architecture may define a gateway to business services that can be exposed to third party applications that might need to access some of the portal services. The third parties may access the portal services through web services.

The customer portal application architecture may exploit the benefit of the SOA paradigm by delivering in the same application different business functional capabilities that are typically exposed by different systems applications. The application may deliver both eCare functionalities such as customer account data modification and eBilling functionalities such as retrieve traffic details integrating with different back end systems in this example customer care and billing transparently to the users. Also the mechanism adopted by the customer portal for implementing systems integration logic may include using web service technology which may allow the solution to be platform agnostic. The customer portal solution may integrate to any application independent of the technology being used to build the systems.

The solution may also leverage the aspect oriented programming AOP paradigm. The customer portal application architecture may combine together the SOA paradigm and AOP paradigm in the same solution. The AOP paradigm may allow change in the way technical requirements such as logging caching exception handling security data validation and others are implemented such as by way of centralized component instead of spreading this extra code in many components. Following the AOP approach it may be possible to keep business logic functional code separate from technical requirements code such that a change on the technical code may not affect the business logic code.

The AOP approach may be orthogonally related to the SOA approach and the customer portal application may be able to combine the two design approaches. The solution may address the problem of having a ready to use web portal deliver sophisticated self service functionalities. The customer portal may deliver a set of high valuable functionalities and a superior user experience.

The functionalities may target the growing business needs of multi country organizations to have different teams countries developing the core business functions of the portal and the country specific localization of the portal user interface. The customer portal architecture may be flexible and scalable. The customer portal integration may be platform agnostic since it may leverage web services for integration with other applications. The solution may be leveraged by client teams for delivering to clients a web portal solution for e2e self service. Value may be derived by the innovation as a saving of the total effort required to implement and deliver a complex solution such as that enabled by reusing the asset. The customer portal may a ready to use solution to be deployed on to clients.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system may also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile device a palmtop computer a laptop computer a desktop computer a communications device or any other machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. The computer system may be implemented using electronic devices that provide voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer system is illustrated the term system shall also be taken to include any collection of systems or sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

The computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both. Moreover the computer system may include a main memory and a static memory that may communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit such as a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED a flat panel display a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard and a cursor control device such as a mouse. The computer system may also include a disk drive unit a signal generation device such as a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software may be embedded. Further the instructions may embody one or more of the methods or logic as described herein. In a particular embodiment the instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may include computer readable media.

Dedicated hardware implementations such as application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices may be constructed to implement one or more of the tools described herein. Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments may broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. One or more embodiments described herein may implement functions using two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals that may be communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable medium that includes instructions or receives and executes instructions responsive to a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network may communicate voice video or data over the network . Further the instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device . While the computer readable medium is shown to be a single medium the term computer readable medium includes a single medium or multiple media such as a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable medium also includes any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by a processor or that cause a computer system to perform any one or more of the methods or operations disclosed herein.

The computer readable medium may include a solid state memory such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more non volatile read only memories. Further the computer readable medium may be a random access memory or other volatile re writable memory. Additionally the computer readable medium may include a magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tapes or other storage device to capture carrier wave signals such as a signal communicated over a transmission medium. A digital file attachment to an e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives may be considered a distribution medium that is equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium and other equivalents and successor media in which data or instructions may be stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions that may be implemented in particular embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the invention is not limited to such standards and protocols. For example standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same or similar functions as those disclosed herein are considered equivalents thereof.

The illustrations of the embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of the various embodiments. The illustrations are not intended to serve as a complete description of all of the elements and features of apparatus and systems that utilize the structures or methods described herein. Many other embodiments may be apparent upon reviewing the disclosure. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived from the disclosure such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally the illustrations are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions within the illustrations may be exaggerated while other proportions may be minimized. Accordingly the disclosure and the figures are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any subsequent arrangement designed to achieve the same or similar purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all subsequent adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein is apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the description.

The above disclosed subject matter is to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications enhancements and other embodiments which fall within the true spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus to the maximum extent allowed by law the scope of the present invention is to be determined by the broadest permissible interpretation of the following claims and their equivalents and shall not be restricted or limited by the foregoing detailed description.

