---

title: Installed base data hub
abstract: An installed base data hub for centrally managing information about the installed customer base of an enterprise is disclosed. According to one embodiment, an installed base data hub comprises a data repository configured to store installed base data, the installed base data including first information representative of at least one customer of the enterprise and second information representative of one or more products purchased by the customer. The hub further includes a data librarian configured to cleanse the installed base data, a security module configured to manage access to the data repository, a subscription interface configured to enable one or more of a plurality of spoke systems to read data from the repository, and a publication interface configured to enable one or more of the plurality of spoke systems to write data into the repository. In various embodiments, at least one of the spoke systems is external to the enterprise.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07747643&OS=07747643&RS=07747643
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 07747643
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070710
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to data management and more particularly relate to an installed base data hub for centrally managing information about the installed customer base of a business or enterprise.

A data hub or master data management MDM solution is a collection of software and or hardware components that enables a business or enterprise i.e. source enterprise to maintain a single master source of data that is accessible across multiple heterogeneous information management systems. Currently software vendors such as Oracle Corporation and IBM offer two types of data hubs a Customer hub and a Product hub. These hubs provide a centralized view of a source enterprise s customer and product data respectively. However the software industry has thus far failed to provide a solution for centrally managing the intersection of information between customers and products in other words the installed customer base.

The management of installed base data has become increasingly important in recent years as companies have moved to out sourcing various customer related business functions e.g. product service sales etc. to third party partners. In many instances these partners rely on installed base information to carry out their jobs. For example a product manufacturer may employ a number of external contractors to provide warranty service for the different types and configurations of products that it sells. The contractors may in turn employ a number of subcontractors to provide service for specific subcomponents of a product. Each contractor or subcontractor in this multi tiered network needs access to consistent and up to date installed base information e.g. customer names addresses warranty terms part model serial numbers of products sold deployed installed etc. to properly service the manufacturer s customers.

A manufacturer may also work with a number of reselling partners to sell its products through various retail channels. In this case the reselling partners may wish to leverage installed base information to accurately identify the demographics of the manufacturer s installed customer base and target marketing and or up selling campaigns accordingly.

To address the foregoing needs many external partners maintain a mirrored copy of a manufacturer s installed base data in their own information management systems. However this approach is problematic for several reasons. First it is inefficient because it doubles the amount of processing and memory resources required to maintain a single set of data i.e. the installed base data . Second it is cumbersome because it requires a partner to synchronize it s mirrored installed base data with the manufacturer s master data on a periodic basis. Even with frequent synchronizations there may be situations where the partner s mirrored data is stale possibly leading to processing errors and a degraded quality of service to customers.

Another solution is to create a proprietary point to point interface between the information management systems of a partner and manufacturer. For instance the partner and manufacturer may contract with a developer to develop a custom interface that will enable their systems to intercommunicate. Unfortunately the creation of custom interfaces is generally a slow process as the developer must design and test the interface for the specific systems being connected. Such interfaces are also fragile in that modifications to either system e.g. updating versions of software may break the communication path until such time as modifications to the interface are made. Further a point to point interface is specific to the particular partner for which it is developed and thus cannot be leveraged by all external partners interested in accessing and updating the manufacturer s installed base data.

Embodiments of the present invention address the foregoing and other such problems by providing an installed base data hub that can interoperate with multiple heterogeneous systems i.e. spoke systems and thus serve as a centralized data source for all parties i.e. partners interested in the installed customer base data of a source enterprise. In various embodiments the spoke systems that interface with the hub may be operated by partners that are internal or external to the source enterprise.

As used herein installed base data or installed customer base data refers to information about product or service units purchased by customers of a source enterprise. For example installed base data may include but is not limited to customer code customer location product code model serial number product attributes e.g. size color etc. warranty terms and other such information.

In one set of embodiments an installed base data hub includes a central data repository dictionary a data librarian a security module a set of programmatic subscription publication interfaces and an administrative module. The central data repository is configured to store installed base master data. The data librarian is a software and or hardware module that is configured to cleanse data that is imported or published into the data repository. Data cleansing may include resolving data conflicts removing duplicate data entries and augmenting incoming data with new fields or categorizations. The security module is configured to define and enforce security rules e.g. read only write read and write etc. associated with spoke systems that interact with the hub. The programmatic subscription publication interfaces provide a mechanism for spoke systems to read i. e. subscribe and write i.e. publish information to the central data repository. In one embodiment the subscription publication interfaces are implemented as Web Services. And the administrative module provides an interface for managing aspects of the data repository data librarian and security module.

In various embodiments an installed base data hub may be deployed by first consolidating all installed base information for a source enterprise from various internal and or external data systems e.g. product manufacturing accounting billing customer relationship management CRM etc. . This consolidation may be performed through a data loader program or manual entry. The incoming data may then be cleansed either in a streaming or batch fashion to remove redundant data resolve data conflicts and augment the data as described previously. Finally security rules that manage access to the hub may be defined. In a typical deployment one or more security rules are associated to a security role and one or more roles are associated to a hub user such as a spoke system.

By providing a centralized source of information regarding the installed customer base of a source enterprise embodiments of the present invention significantly reduce the operational inefficiencies associated with maintaining mirrored sets of installed base data across the systems of external partners. Embodiments of the present invention also provide a single consistent data source for intra enterprise systems that may require access installed base data e.g. marketing product research accounting billing etc. .

According to one embodiment of the present invention an installed base data hub comprises a data repository configured to store installed base data for an enterprise the installed base data including first information representative of at least one customer of the enterprise and second information representative of one or more products purchased by the at least one customer. The hub further includes a data librarian module configured to cleanse the installed base data a security module configured to manage access to the data repository a subscription interface configured to allow one or more of a plurality of spoke systems to read data from the data repository and a publication interface configured to allow one or more of the plurality of spoke systems to write data into the data repository. In various embodiments at least one of the plurality of spoke systems is external to the enterprise.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a system for managing installed base data comprises a database configured to store installed base data for an enterprise the installed base data including first information representing at least one customer of the enterprise and second information representing one or more products purchased by the at least one customer. The system further comprises at least one server in communication with the database the server configured to cleanse the installed base data manage access to the data repository process requests to read data from the data repository and process requests to write data to the data repository. In various embodiments the requests to read and write data are received from one or more of a plurality of spoke systems where at least one of the plurality of spoke systems is external to the enterprise

According to yet another embodiment of the present invention a computer program product embedded in a computer readable medium for executing an installed base data hub is disclosed. The computer program product includes program code for storing installed base data for an enterprise in a data repository the installed base data including first information representing at least one customer of the enterprise and second information representing one or more products purchased by the at least one customer. The computer program product further includes program code for cleansing the installed base data program code for managing access to the data repository program code for processing requests to read data from the data repository and program code for processing requests to write data to the data repository. In various embodiments the requests to read and write data are received from one or more of a plurality of spoke systems where at least one of the plurality of spoke systems is external to the enterprise.

According to another aspect of the present invention a computer implemented method for deploying an installed base data hub comprises receiving installed base data from a plurality of disparate data sources the installed base data including first information representative of at least one customer of the enterprise and second information representative of one or more products purchased by the at least one customer. The method further comprises cleansing the received installed base data the cleansing comprising removing duplicates and standardizing the format of the installed base data storing the installed base data in a data repository and defining security rules identifying one or more spoke systems that can read data from the data repository and one or more spoke systems that can write data to the data repository.

A further understanding of the nature and the advantages of the embodiments disclosed herein may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form.

Embodiments of the present invention provide an installed base data hub that enables multiple heterogeneous spoke systems to access a centralized data source describing the installed customer base of a source enterprise. Specific embodiments may be particularly useful for product and service providers who must share installed base information with a number of external business partners each running disparate information management systems. Current methods of information sharing via data replication or proprietary interfaces are problematic because they can be cumbersome inefficient and costly. Embodiments of the present invention overcome these problems and thus facilitate the sharing of installed base data across the disparate systems of multiple businesses enterprises.

In one set of embodiments extra enterprise systems are operated by one or more external partners of source enterprise that are interested in installed base information. These include for example service contractors reselling partners and the like. Intra enterprise systems are run by various internal business units or groups of source enterprise that may need to populate data into or read data from installed base data hub . For instance hub may receive data regarding customer purchases from accounting system and customer sales system . Similarly hub may receive data regarding the specifications of a purchased product e.g. color size serial number manufacture date etc. from product manufacturing system . Although only six spoke systems are shown as interacting with installed base data hub one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that any number of spoke systems may be supported.

In various embodiments spoke systems may run any one of a number of different i.e. heterogeneous application platforms. For example as illustrated accounting billing system may run an Oracle ERP application product manufacturing system may run an SAP application and customer sales system may run a Siebel CRM application. Similarly systems may each run any of the above mentioned platforms or any other application platform. Installed base data hub is configured to interoperate with each of these disparate systems platforms.

Installed base repository is configured to store the installed customer base data of source enterprise . As used herein installed customer base data or installed base data represents information about product or service units purchased by customers of source enterprise . Installed base data may include but is not limited to installed base ID customer code customer name customer location product code product name product model number product serial number product physical attributes e.g. color size shape etc. product quantity warranty terms replacement part serial number and the like.

In an exemplary embodiment installed base repository is implemented as a relational database or a collection of relational databases. In alternative embodiments repository may be implemented using any other logical storage format e.g. flat file etc. . Although installed base repository is shown in as an integral part of hub repository may reside on storage that is local or remote to the other components of hub .

Data librarian module consists of one or more software and or hardware components that are configured to cleanse the installed base data stored in installed base repository . Data cleansing or reconciliation is designed to improve the quality and integrity of installed base data since such data is typically imported updated from a number of different systems. One type of data cleansing that may be performed by data librarian is the resolution of data conflicts. A data conflict occurs when hub receives conflicting information from two or more spoke systems. For example accounting billing spoke system may publish data to hub regarding customer number that includes a customer name value of Lee Smith. Service contractor spoke system may also publish data to hub regarding customer number but with a customer name value of L. Smith. In these cases data librarian may resolve the data conflict using one or more predefined business rules. For example one business rule may give priority to a data value received from an intra enterprise system over a conflicting value received from an extra enterprise system. As described in further detail below conflict resolution business rules may be defined by a user with appropriate privileges via administrative module .

A second type of data cleansing that may be performed by data librarian is the elimination of duplicate data entries. Duplicate entries typically appear when data is merged or assimilated into installed base repository from a number of different systems for the first time. For example accounting billing spoke system and customer sales spoke system may each contain a data record for customer number . When the data from these two systems are merged into hub the data needs to be filtered for duplicate information so that only a single record for customer number is stored in installed base repository .

A third type of data cleansing that may be performed by data librarian is the augmentation of data received from spoke systems. In various embodiments augmentation includes adding additional qualifiers or categorizations to the data that were not present in the original system merging existing categories and values and the like. This allows incoming data to be formatted and stored in a standardized form in installed base repository .

Data librarian may be implemented as any type of software hardware component or combination of software hardware components. For example data librarian may be implemented as one or more PL SQL packages resident in installed base repository . Alternatively data librarian may be implemented as one or more Java programs resident in an application server. In one embodiment data librarian operates in real time and cleanses data as it is imported published into installed base data hub . In other embodiments data librarian operates as a batch process and processes installed base data stored in repository at predefined intervals. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

Security module comprises one or more rules defining the security privileges of end users e.g. spoke systems and administrators of installed base data hub . Exemplary rules include read only access to installed base repository read write access and the like. In an exemplary embodiment one or more rules are associated with a security role and one or more roles are associated with a hub user. For instance a spoke system e.g. hub user may be assigned an end user role consisting of read write access to repository . A system administrator may be assigned a super user role consisting of additional privileges such as the ability to modify the configuration of security module and data librarian .

In various embodiments security module also includes one or more software and or hardware components for managing access e.g. authenticating and authorizing users to hub according to the security rules defined. Security module may implement any one of a number of known authentication authorization mechanisms such as username password cryptographic keys and the like. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

According to one set of embodiments a role may comprise additional options defining the operation of hub . For example an end user role associated with spoke systems may include a notification option that controls how a spoke system is notified when data is updated in installed base repository . In one embodiment a spoke system may be notified by e mail when an update occurs. Alternatively an update flag may be set in installed base repository indicating that a change has been made.

Subscription and publication interfaces enable spoke systems such as to read and write data to installed base repository respectively. In an exemplary embodiment interfaces are implemented as Application Programming Interfaces APIs using a standardized invocation format and parameter model thereby allowing any heterogeneous system following the standardized format and model to access hub . In one set of embodiments subscription publication interfaces are implemented as Web Services. Interface may also be implemented using any other standardized remote invocation interface such as CORBA Java Remote Method Invocation RMI and the like. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

Administrative module consists of a user interface for managing aspects of hub including installed base repository data librarian module and security module . With respect to installed base repository administrative module may include functions for manually modifying the installed base data in the repository and changing the data model. With respect to data librarian administrative module may include functions for defining business rules logic for resolving data conflicts data merging and data augmentation. With respect to security module administrative module may include functions for creating security rules roles and users and defining the associations between each.

According to one set of embodiments the user interface of administrative module is implemented as a Web based form. In other embodiments the user interface may be implemented as any other type of software based interface such as a proprietary application window etc.

Once data has been consolidated in installed base repository the data is cleansed using data librarian module step . As described above data cleansing includes resolving data conflicts removing duplicates and augmenting the data to conform to a consistent format. At step security rules roles and users are defined.

In various embodiments method may be performed in an automated or semi automated fashion. For example a deployment process or script may automatically consolidate data from a predefined list of source systems cleanse the consolidated data and setup a default set of security rules roles and users. In other embodiments each step may be executed or initiated manually by a hub administrator.

It should be appreciated that the specific steps illustrated in provide a particular method of deploying an installed base data hub according to an embodiment of the present invention. Other sequences of steps may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the steps outlined above in a different order. Moreover the individual steps illustrated in may include multiple sub steps that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore additional steps may be added or removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

Although portions of the foregoing have been discussed with respect to the product manufacturing context embodiments of the present invention are widely applicable to other industries enterprises such as utilities telecommunications high tech original equipment manufacturers OEMs and other service product providers.

Server computers may be general purpose computers specialized server computers including merely by way of example PC servers UNIX servers mid range servers mainframe computers rack mounted servers etc. server farms server clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination. Each server may run an operating system including various versions of Microsoft Windows and or Apple Macintosh operating systems UNIX or UNIX like operating systems including without limitation the variety of GNU Linux operating systems as well as any other commercially available server operating systems. Servers may also run any of a variety of additional server applications and or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers Java servers database servers and the like. Exemplary database servers include without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like.

As shown extra enterprise servers and hub server communicate via network . Similarly intra enterprise servers and hub server communicate via network . Networks may represent any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example networks can be a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

System environment may also include one or more databases . For instance database represents a central data repository for installed base data hub as described in the foregoing disclosure. Databases may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example databases may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the server computers . Alternatively they may be remote from any or all of the server computers and or in communication e.g. via network or with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments databases may reside in one or more storage area networks SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the server computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments databases may be relational databases such as Oracle 10g that are adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a digital signal processor DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the system environment .

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program which may be a client application Web browser mid tier application RDBMS etc. . It should be appreciated that alternative embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to store or transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.

