---

title: Magnetic particle separator
abstract: A process for separating entrained particles from a medium is provided. The medium flows into an intake port, through a separation region and out an exit port. The process includes disposing a separation region between the intake and outlet ports and positioning a magnet having north and south poles at opposite ends of the separation region. For orientation, the ports are disposed along a flow axis, and the opposite ends are disposed parallel to a pole axis transverse to the flow axis. The method operates by the magnet applying Lorenz force on the particles having one of positive and negative charges away from the separation region, wherein the particles avoid the outlet port without obstructing through the separation region. Similarly, a device for separating the particles is similarly described. In addition, the method and device further include a chamber being disposed adjacent to the separation region to collect the particles. In particular, the chamber can represent a first chamber disposed between the separation region and the south pole to collect the particles having positive charge, and a second chamber disposed between the separation region and the north pole to collect the particles having negative charge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=H0002238&OS=H0002238&RS=H0002238
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: H0002238
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070626
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 60 835 967 with a filing date of Jul. 26 2006 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to separation of particles in a moving fluid by using a magnetic field. In particular the invention relates to introduction of a magnetic field to a moving medium having entrained particles to be separated therefrom.

Removing particulate matter from fluid flow represents an objective for many applications including purification and sampling. Conventional separation techniques of solid objects entrained from a liquid medium include methods using sieve impaction centrifugal electrostatic etc. The sieve employs a physical gate to trap particles above a selected scale while permitting the medium to penetrate. Impaction uses a physical obstacle against which a particle impinges while the fluid traverses around due to differences in material inertia between the particles and the medium. Spinning the medium in a centrifuge enables separation by differences in density between the medium and the particles. Electrostatic techniques impart charge to particles which also require electrical power.

Each of these techniques presents limitations under particlar circumstances. For example introduction of barriers or obstacles introduces pressure drop into the flow that requires power to overcome and may introduce turbulence as an unintended consequence.

Conventional separation of particles from fluid medium yields disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular a process for separating entrained particles from a medium is provided. For example the medium flows into an intake port through a separation region and out through an exit port. In various exemplary embodiments the process includes disposing a separation region between the intake and outlet ports and positioning a magnet having north and south poles at opposite ends of the separation region.

For orientation the ports are disposed along a flow axis and the opposite ends are disposed parallel to a pole axis transverse to the flow axis. The method operates by the magnet applying Lorentz force on the particles having one of positive and negative charges away from the separation region wherein the particles avoid the outlet port without obstructing through the separation region. Similarly a device for separating the particles is similarly described. In addition the method and device further include a chamber being disposed adjacent to the separation region to collect the particles.

Various exemplary embodiments include providing a chamber disposed adjacent to the separation region to collect the particles. Specifically the chamber can represent a first chamber disposed between the separation region and the south pole to collect the particles having positive charge and a second chamber disposed between the separation region and the north pole to collect the particles having negative charge.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Conventional particle isolation systems in flow fields are mechaniccally or electrostatically based. The latter involves either maintaining a voltage difference across the flow or the insertion of a charge conductor into a flow so as to separate out the charged pollutants via a static electric field. The former entails inserting fiber based material into the flow so as to capture particulates via collision. Thus either a power supply is needed thereby imposing equipment and or operational cost or else an obstruction to the flow thereby inducing a pressure drop either of which can yield adverse consequences. However the magnetic separator does not inhibit fluid or gas flow and thus has no power requirements if permanent magnets are utilized.

Various exemplary embodiments as described herein utilize the fundamental physical force known as the Lorentz force F 1 where Fis the force vector developed from the magnetic field q represents charge v is the velocity vector that cross products B that is the magnetic field vector representing magnetic flux density. All of these quantities are non zero for moving airborne aerosols of chemical biological and radiological CBR interests in the presence of a magnetic field.

Besides being based upon sound physics a crude experiment was performed that verifies the feasibility of the invention for even low wind speeds. In this experiment we brought a set of moderately strong permanent magnets rated at 180 lbs of pull force near a flowing smoke stream generated from burning oil and moving at a wind speed of 5 mi hr. The entire smoke stream was markedly displaced by the presence of the magnets as compared to the smoke s path without them. This concepts forms the bases of experimental particle physics and explains shielding of the Earth from the solar wind.

The advantages to this concept over conventional separation techniques discussed in the background section are that a magnetic separator does not inhibit flow b the magnetic separator requires no energy if permanent magnets are used and c it is also possible to tailor the separator to specific applications by manipulating the velocity vector of the flow v and or the geometry of the magnetic field vector B.

In lieu of permanent magnets electromagnets could also be used that require very low power supplies e.g. batteries . This would allow for stronger magnetic fields but diminish the energy advantage somewhat. However the cost would be minimal because magnetic fields are directly proportional to current which allows a low resistance wire to be used in conjunction with a small power supply to produce very large magnetic fields.

The various exemplary particle separation embodiments include a magnetic filter a magnetic concentrator an isolator and a deposition inhibitor. Each of these concepts utilizes the vector nature of the fundamental physical force known as the Lorentz force as described previously in eqn. 1 . As before these quantities are non zero for moving airborne aerosols of CBR interests in the presence of a magnetic field. The Lorentz force being a vector quantity turns a moving charged particle according to the well known right hand screw rule causing the particle to undergo circular motion. Thus particles will circle indefinitely in a trapped fashion allowing the concentration to accumulate until the critical threshold is reached or detection.

As described for a first embodiment a magnetic filter separates out charged particulates from a fluidic or gaseous flow stream without obstructing the flow. illustrates an isometric conceptual view for a single exemplary filtration device . The filter can be utilized for CBR filtration either as a pre filter or as a stand alone unit. The filter can be concatenated to achieved desired levels of filtration. Filtered out particulated can then be captured using traditional methods.

The filter device receives an inflow of gas e.g. air and particulate matter into an inlet duct through which the gas and particles enter a separation region that is connected to an outlet duct . A north N magnet end and a south S magnet end in combination produce a magnetic field . The N and S portions may be disposed on starboard and port sides of the separation region as shown.

Dust and other small particles entrained in gaseous flow readily acquire an electric charge from collisions with neighboring molecules. Positively charged particles deflect upward between the N and S portions as disposed whereas negatively charged particles deflect downward between the magnet ends. Thus the particles are ejected enabling filtered gas to flow through the outlet duct .

As described for a second embodiment the magnetic concentrator uses a magnetic field to accumulate charged particulates so as to achieve a critical threshold required for sensor activation or alarm. illustrates an isometric conceptual view for a single exemplary concentration device . The concentrator can be utilized for CBR detection as a stand alone unit or can be stacked to achieve desired levels of filtration. Concentrated particulates can then be detected using traditional methods.

The concentration device receives an inflow of gas e.g. air and particulate matter into an intake duct through which the gas and particles enter a cylindrical chamber that is connected to an exit duct . The intake and exit ducts lie along a flow axis that may but need not be straight. A north N magnet end and a south S magnet end in combination produce a magnetic field . The N and S portions may be disposed on upper and lower sides of the chamber with the field vector directed from north to south as shown such that a magnetic field axis may be transverse i.e. intersect the flow axis. In preferred embodiments the magnetic field axis may be substantially perpendicular to the flow axis formed by the intake and exit ducts .

Dust and other small particles entrained in gasesous flow readily acquire an electric charge from collisions with neighboring molecules. In the orientation shown positively charged particles turn counterclockwise whereas negatively charged particles turn clockwise. Some particles spiral from one elevation to another without escaping the chamber . Thus the particles are collected in the upper and lower portions of the chamber enabling filtered gas to flow through the exit duct .

By contrast the predominant method underlying conventional particle concentrators relies upon the inertia of a particle and impaction onto a surface in order to achieve the necessary concentration required for activation of a detector. An elevation schematic of this inertial concept for a conventional concentrator is shown in FIG. . The concentrator receives an inflow of gas and particles through a funnel downstream of which is an impact deflector .

The particles are deposited as a collection onto the windward surface of the impactor which deflects the gas flow that exits the filter as a filtered and deflected gas . These devices may be engineered so as to minimize particle accumulation along the walls of the channeling passageways and account for different particulate masses to minimize sampling bias in terms of size distributions. They also require power to create and maintain flow through narrow and winding passageways.

As described in a third embodiment the magnetic isolator separates out charged particulates from a fluidic i.e. liquid or gaseous flow stream without obstructing the flow and concentrates them in separate chambers to allow detection. illustrates an isometric conceptual view for a single exemplary isolation device . The isolator can be utilized for CBR sensors. Filtered out and concentrated particulates can then be detected using traditional methods or novel techniques due to the fact the particulates will be suspended in air as opposed to deposited upon surfaces.

The isolation device receives an inflow of gas e.g. air and particulate matter into an entrance duct through which the gas and particles enter a region flanked above and below by cylindrical chambers and respectively. The region that includes the upper and lower chambers is connected to an egress duct . A north N magnet end and a south S magnet end in combination produce a magnetic field . The N and S portions may be disposed on upper and lower sides of the chamber with the field vector directed from north to south as shown.

Dust and other small particles entrained in gaseous flow readily acquire an electric charge from collisions with neighboring molecules. In the orientation shown positively charged particles turn counterclockwise and enter the lower chamber whereas negatively charged particles turn clockwise and enter the upper chamber . Thus the particles are collected and trapped in the upper and lower chambers enabling filtered gas to flow through the egress duct .

Conventional systems in sensors provide separate implementation for filtration and concentration. Such filtering systems are mechanically or electrostatically based and the predominant method underlying conventional concentrators relies upon the inertia of a particle and impaction onto a surface such as shown in FIG. . Hence conventional systems require a power supply to overcome pressure losses from the obstruction introduced into the flow and or the triggering of turbulence to provide such inefficient filtration.

By contrast exemplary embodiments of the magnetic separator do not inhibit fluid or gas flow and obviates power requirements if permanent magnets are utilized. The isolator provides a means of concentration that keeps particulates suspended allowing novel detection techniques to be explored and can be monitored more readily. Several such isolation units can be concatenated along the flow to augment the filtration quality.

Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the intake and outlet ports through which the medium flows can be disposed along a flow axis within a substantially flat flow plane. The embodiments described provide substantially straight paths therethrough although flow direction can be turned within the flow plane without departing from the spirit of the invention. Correspondingly the magnet poles can be disposed along a pole axis. In order to act on particles the Lorentz force operates in a plane that differs from the flow direction of the medium. Thus the magentic field s pole axis may be transverse to i.e. differ from and preferably be substantially perpendicular to the flow plane and thereby to the flow axis.

As described in a fourth embodiment the magnetic deposition inhibitor uses a magnetic field to control the flow of charged particulates so as to mitigate unwanted deposition on the interior of environmental samplers and or detectors. illustrates an isometric conceptual view for a single exemplary deposition inhibitor device for a curved flow geometry. The inhibitor can be utilized for CBR detection. Particulates can then be captured for processing in a collector using traditional methods.

The concentration device receives an inflow of gas e.g. air and particulate matter into an intake duct through which the gas and particles enter an elbow conduit that connects to particle collector . An electric solenoid circuit driven by a power supply e.g. battery produces an electric current . The circuit is helically wound around the elbow conduit to produce a magnetic field that acts on the particles which spiral into the collector .

To accurately sample the ambient environment for CBR defense it is imperative to reduce if not eliminate unwanted particulate deposition on the interior walls of the collector detector system. The magnetic inhibitor utilizes the well known magnetic field properties of a solenoid generated by a current carrying wire wrapped around the exterior of a curved cylinder such as the elbow . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that a charged particulate follows a magnetic field line in a helical fashion as depicted in FIG. .

Moreover the particle in a vacuum does not wander from the field line greater than the helical radius r given in the following formula where F is the magnitude of the Lorenz force vector q is the particle charge v is the velocity vector with B is the magnetic field vector m is the particle mass v is the velocity magnitude and r is the radius of the helical travel path. Thus because the magnetic field lines of a solenoid converge to and become highly concentrated along the center axis of the intake duct and elbow the particles move away from the walls and travel toward and along the center of the cylinder. This will then reduce if not eliminate the interaction between the particles and the walls.

The above described magnetic field separation embodiments for the filter concentrator isolator and deposition inhibitor all depend upon the use of a magnetic field to control the transport of aerosols contained in air flow. These concepts therefore are applications of the science of magneto aerodynamics that has developed sufficient technological maturity to have produced a well established theoretical framework resulting in numerous publications on various and sundry applications.

Germane to the embodiments described above is the concept of the magnetic body force per unit volume that acts upon a volume of gas air plus aerosols when subjected to an applied magnetic field vector B. This body force takes the mathematical form as follows where is the magnetic permeability H the magnetic field intensity p is the gas density T is the constant temperature condition for permeability variation with gas density j is the electric current density vector and H B is the magnetic field intensity vector. In addition represents the gradient differential vector operator expressed as such that nis a normal vector and xis the partial derivative with respect to the normal direction. Eqn. 3 is obtained from L. D. Landau and E. M. Lifshitz Pergamon 1960 Chap. 4.

In the absence of aerosol the ambient air is paramagnetic and therefore responds to the presence of a magnetic field as discussed in several publications such as B. Bai A. Yabe J. Qi and N. I. Wakayama Quantitative Analysis of Air Convection Caused by Magnetic Fluid Coupling vol. 37 No. 12 Dec. 1999. Most gases are diamagnetic contrast susceptibility whereas oxygen and nitrogen are paramagnetic inverse temperature varying susceptibility .

Under no flow conditions the last term in eqn. 3 involving the electric current density vector j may be set to zero corresponding to no air velocity. The remaining terms describe the response of air alone to the applied magnetic field. This air response represents a significant effect in the context of the above described embodiments. This can be expressed by the approximation relation from Bai et al. where is vacuum permeability Xis magnetic susceptibility of oxygen per unit mass for diatomic oxygen and Yis mass fraction of oxygen Oin air. Magnetic susceptibility for oxygen is a function of temperature and has a comparatively high value at 300K kelvin of 107.8 19cm g about two orders of magnitude greater than most other gasses .

Absence of such body force response in air would cause flow resistance of charged aerosols across the ambient flow due to ensuing interaction between the aerosol and air. Fortunately the behavior of oxygen provides impetus for the particles to be entrained with the air flow from the enhanced body force rather than being dragged back. Hence setting current density to zero represents a conservative estimate for body force. Under the assumption of no charged aerosols Bai et al. have dramatically shown that magnetic fields accelerate and collimate air into highly symmetric flow. These experimental results without and with an induced electromagnetic field are shown in to illustrate this contrast.

The photograph in shows a gaseous discharge experimental arrangement without a magnetic field. The electromagnets flank a tube for injecting a static column of nitrogen gas upward. The inner diameter of the tube is 1.6 cm and the nitrogen is visually indicated by an ultrasonic nebulizer. The photograph in shows the experimental arrangement with the magnetic field having a peak strength of 1.5 T i.e. tesla at a centerline horizontal x 0 centimeter cm position approximately indicated by the double arrow corresponding to vertical y 3 cm . Nitrogen is ejected upward as a jet and yielding a plume visible indicated by the nebulizer.

Additionally Bai et al. quantified via numerical solution and experimental measures the resulting accelerations of the Nmolecules in air when subjected to various strengths of magnetic field. These data originally presented in Bai et al. is reproduced in as a plotted graph . The abscissa represents the magnetic flux density along the centerline B in tesla up to 1.5 T while the ordinate represents the resulting velocity v in meters per second m s of the nitrogen medium. Such static strengths are availble with rare earth magnets composed of NdFeB neodymium iron boron . The plot includes calculation and measured data for which a linear curvefit can be calculated as v 0.254 B 0.02 at x y 0 3 cm . Thus a magnetic field flux 0.5 T or 5 kilo gauss shown by line can be extrapolated to indicate that the Nmolecules accelerate from rest to a speed of approximately 0.15 or 0.16 m s shown by line . Thus expected gas flow velocities induced by the magnetic field should be expected to range between 0.1 m s and 0.2 m s.

Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the example embodiments act on charged aerosols that are more strongly affected by the presence of a magnetic field through the Lorenz force shown as the third term in eqn. 3 the quantitative results of Bai et al. in terms of size dimensions centimeters and field strengths tenths of Tesla establish the feasibility of using magnetic fields concentrate separate and collimate as envisaged and described for the described embodiments.

To estimate the effects of including the Lorenz force crude visual demonstrations have been performed using a 0.5 T permanent magnet on a 5 mi hr 30 m s flow of aerosol smoke at Naval Surface Warfare Center Dahlgren and have observed an approximate deflection of 5 degrees of the smoke stream. Roughly this translates into a tangential acceleration that resulted in an approximate tangential flow speed of 260 cm s over about a distance of between 2 cm and 3 cm.

Summary The study of magnetoaerodynamics can be important to control airflows. The magnetically induced change in the velocity of Ogas streams injected into air was quantitatively studied. Whether Ogas flow was magnetically accelerated or decelerated was found to depend on the sign of the magnetic field gradient applied at the Ooutlet. The magnetically induced change in the velocity v v v was found to increase by increasing the product of the magnetic intensity and its gradient H dH dy and lowering the velocity without the fields v. The dynamics of this magnetically induced gas flow was explained by considering the magnetic force acting on the paramagnetic oxygen gas. The calculation shows the most efficient acceleration to occur in stationary medium i.e. v 0 cm s . The result of this study indicates the availability of magnetic control of gas streams containing Ogas. The necessary conditions are the gradient of the O gas concentration the low velocity without fields v and high quantity of magnetic field density H gradient with respect to the flow direction i.e. dH dy.

The magnitudes presented herein provide a quantitative measure of magnetic field strength necessary to deflect the medium and or the particles entrained therein. The techniques described explain a variety of applications for separation of particles from medium flow using either a permanent magnet or an electromagnet that can be switched on or off as appropriate. Alternatively the electromagnet can be applied with an alternating current to produce a sinusoidal fluctuation in the magnetic field strength. Although the examples described herein focus primarily on gaseous media the principles applied can be readily extended to liquid media as will be recognized by artisans of ordinary skill.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

