---

title: Method and apparatus for synchronizing contact and calendar information between a handset and a computing device
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention provide for synchronizing contact and calendar information between a handset and a computer. For example, one method as disclosed herein allows the handset to import contact and calendar information from the computing device or to export the contact and the calendar information to the computing device. The computing device can be a PC or a new handset, for example. The importation and the exportation of the contact and calendar information includes a conversion process that occurs within the handset that transforms the contact and calendar information into a format suitable for the destination of the data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08798607&OS=08798607&RS=08798607
owner: KYOCERA Corporation
number: 08798607
owner_city: Kyoto
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070703
---
The present invention is directed toward information management and synchronization in a cellular telecommunications environment.

Software has become popular recently which allows a user to not only send and receive e mail messages on a personal computer but also to keep an electronic address book of contacts and an electronic calendar with calendar information associated with upcoming events as well.

One of the most common problems for a new handset user is how to move their contacts from their previous handset or their computer to the new handset. Usually a special program and cable is sold for a premium to do this.

Lately programs that can do this over the air have been made available to handsets. For example one scheme downloads contacts from a handset to a personal computer. The personal computer performs a conversion process to transform the contacts into a format suitable for the computer. The computer then transforms the contacts into a format suitable for a second handset. The personal computer then loads the converted contacts onto the second handset.

Another scheme uploads contacts from a handset to a server on the Internet. The server obtains format information from a second handset and if necessary converts the uploaded contacts into a format suitable for the second handset. The server then provides the converted contacts to the second handset.

These schemes are expensive and require either a personal computer or an Internet server as an intermediary between the two handsets. These schemes also require the intermediary to perform any needed conversions to make the contacts usable by the handsets. Therefore what is needed is a system and method that reduces or overcomes these significant problems found in the current schemes as described above.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to synchronizing contact and calendar information between a handset and a computing device. In one embodiment the computing device is a personal computer PC and the contact and calendar information is stored on the PC. The handset and the computing device have media cards and the media cards are configured with specialized directories having the contact and the calendar information in a common format.

The handset is capable of exporting contact or calendar information from persistent storage to a media card formatted memory and converting the contact or the calendar information from a handset compatible format to the common format. The handset is also capable of importing the contact or the calendar information from the media card formatted memory to the persistent storage and converting the contact or the calendar information from the common format to the handset compatible format. In one embodiment the common format is a format that is suitable for a network or PC based personal information management PIM application such as a comma separated value CSV file format a virtual card VCARD file format and or a virtual calendar VCAL format.

In one embodiment the specialized directories include directories for contact information and directories for calendar information. In another embodiment a portion of the specialized directories are for exportation of contact and calendar information and a portion of the specialized directories are for importation of contact and calendar information. In another embodiment the importation directories have subdirectories for replace all update and add new operations.

The handset is capable of importing or exporting files upon the occurrence of a synchronization condition. In various embodiments the synchronization condition occurs upon reset of the handset or the computing device or upon start up of the handset or the computing device. The synchronization condition can also occur upon receiving a selection from a user via a user interface.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

Certain embodiments as disclosed herein provide for synchronizing contact and calendar information between a handset and a computing device. For example one method as disclosed herein allows the handset to import contact and calendar information from the computing device or to export the contact and the calendar information to the computing device. The computing device can be a PC or a new handset for example. The importation and the exportation of the contact and calendar information include a conversion process that occurs within the handset that transforms the contact and calendar information into a format suitable for the destination of the data.

After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. However although various embodiments of the present invention are described herein it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

The handset the new handset and the PC are capable of being communicatively coupled with the server via a network . The network includes for example a wireless wide area network WWAN or a wireless local area network WLAN . The WWAN is configured for voice and data communications over a wide geographical area for example using a code division multiple access CDMA communication scheme or a global system for mobile communications GSM scheme.

The WLAN is configured for voice and data communications over a more limited geographical area for example using one or more of the IEEE 802 communication standards such as 802.11a b g. The network can also be communicatively coupled with a public or private network not shown which may include that particular aggregation of networks commonly known as the Internet.

The PC can include a client application such as an Internet browser that is capable of establishing a communicative coupling with the server . The PC can also include a PIM application such as Outlook for managing personal information such as contact and calendar information.

The media card formatted memories and are capable of being communicatively coupled with each of the other devices in for example by insertion into a dedicated slot or via a wired or wireless connection. Contact and calendar information can be stored on the media card formatted memories and and transferred to the data storage systems and and vice versa.

In one embodiment the contact and calendar information is stored on the media card formatted memories and in a common format. The common format can include for example a series of specialized directories on the media card formatted memories and that make the media card formatted memories appear uniform to the handset the new handset and the PC .

The data storage systems and can be any sort of internal or external memory device and may include both persistent and volatile memories such as a flash memory or a database system for example. The function of the respective data storage systems and is to maintain data for long term storage and also to provide efficient and fast access to contact and calendar information as well as instructions for applications that are executed by the respective devices.

The contact and calendar information can be transferred in a number of manners. For example an indirect connection can be established between the server and the PC and the contact and the calendar information can be transferred across the indirect connection via the network . The media card formatted memories and can also be removed from one of the devices such as the handset or the PC and inserted into another device such as the new handset .

The contact and calendar information can also be transferred across a direct connection . The direct connection can be wired or wireless. In one embodiment the handset supports a direct connection that uses the media transport protocol MTP . For example the media card formatted memory can be communicatively coupled to the PC using the MTP which causes it to appear as a removable hard drive on the PC . In another embodiment the direct connection includes a serial cable and the handset does not support the MTP protocol but includes an application configured to allow for the writing of the contact and calendar information to the specialized directories in the media card formatted memories or via the serial cable.

The contact and calendar information can also be transferred across a direct connection between the handset and the new handset . The direct connection can include for example a Bluetooth or other over the air connection or a wired connection via a serial cable.

The handset and the new handset can include a client application such as an Internet browser that is capable of establishing a communicative coupling with the server . The handset and the new handset can be any of a variety of wireless communication devices. This including for example a cell phone personal digital assistant PDA personal computer PC laptop computer PC card special purpose equipment or any combination of these and other devices capable of establishing a wireless communication link over a wireless communication network such as the network .

It should be noted that many components that are included in the elements of and the subsequent figures have been omitted to make the descriptions more clear. One will note that these omitted elements such as processors network ports memories buses transceivers etc. would be included in such elements in a manner that is commonly known to those skilled in the art.

The network module can be an application on the handset that connects over the air to a network server. The persistent memory module can be any type of non volatile memory. For example the persistent memory module can be a flash memory a read only memory ROM a hard disk drive or the like. The media card memory module can be a removable memory and can be communicatively coupled to the persistent memory module .

The client application module is an application that behaves like an Internet browser. The client application module is capable of establishing a communicative coupling with the server . The communicative coupling can be used for example to access a network based email program that may contain contact or calendar information that resides on a network and can be imported to the handset .

The import module and the export module can be binary runtime environment for wireless BREW applications or JAVA applications for example. The import module and the export module are configured to convert the contact and the calendar information from a handset compatible format to a common format and vice versa. The import module and the export module are also configured to access the internal contact and calendar information in the persistent memory module as well as the common formatted contact and calendar information in the media card memory module via the OS API module . The import module and the export module are also configured to read and write the contact and the calendar information as well as to create the specialized directories in the media card memory module .

In one embodiment the export module is configured to create a series of specialized directories in an electronic file system EFS of the media card memory module . The creation of the specialized directories by the export module allows for the transfer of the contact and the calendar information from the persistent memory module to the media card memory module .

In one embodiment the export module creates a contact directory where contact data will reside which is called EFS export Contacts contacts.vcf. In another embodiment the export module creates a calendar directory where calendar information will reside which is called EFS export Calendar calendar.ics.

The export module is also configured to perform a conversion process on the contact or the calendar information that resides in the appropriate directory or in the media card memory module . The export module accesses the contact data and the calendar information and converts it to a comma separated value CSV file format a virtual card VCARD file format and or a virtual calendar VCAL format. Typically the handset does not store the contact and calendar information in the CSV VCARD or VCAL formats in its internal data storage system but stores it in a format suitable for the handset .

For example the export module can parse the contact and calendar information line by line and perform a mapping between the elements of the file in a format suitable for the handset into a VCARD VCAL or CSV format. The mapping of the contact or calendar information to the VCARD VCAL or CSV format may include the BREW module examining each field of the contact or calendar information in the handset compatible format and transforming it to VCARD VCAL or CSV. For example in one embodiment a contact has a name field and a photo field with an associated picture in the handset. The conversion process might include copying the text associated with the name field to a corresponding name field in CSV and not copying the photo field from the handset.

In another embodiment the import module is configured to create the series of specialized directories in an electronic file system EFS of the media card memory module . The creation of the specialized directories by the import module allows for transfer of the contact and the calendar information from the media card memory module to the persistent memory.

In one embodiment the import module creates directories in the contact directory which are called EFS Contact Add EFS Contact Update and EFSIContact ReplaceAll . EFS Contact Add is a location where files reside that are intended to be added to the address book. EFS Contact Update is a location where files reside that are intended to be updates for a matching contact in the address book. EFS Contact ReplaceAll is intended to contain files designed to replace the entire address book.

In another embodiment the import module creates directories in the calendar directory which are called EFS Calendar Add EFS Calendar Update and EFS Calendar ReplaceAll . EFS Calendar Add is a location where files reside that are intended to be added to the calendar. EFS Contact Update is a location where files reside that are intended to be updates for matching calendar information in the calendar. EFS Contact ReplaceAll is intended to contain files designed to replace the entire calendar.

The import module is configured to perform a conversion process on the contact or calendar information that resides in the appropriate directory or in the media card memory module . The import module accesses the files in the directories or for example in CSV VCAL or VCARD formats and converts them to a format suitable for the handset . The import module then writes the converted files to the persistent memory of the handset .

The OS API module is configured to access the contact and the calendar information in the handset without exposing the internal formats of the handset . The OS API may be a BREW API or a JAVA API for example as well as any other API used for this purpose.

The interface module allows the handset to be connected to the PC wherein the PC operating system shows a portion of the media card memory module of the handset as a virtual drive on the PC . The virtual drive allows the PC to create read and write directories and files to the media card memory module of the handset .

The directory structure includes a root . At a level below the root are a contact node a calendar node and an export node . The contact node and the calendar node are typically created by the import module and are for storing files designed to be imported to the internal data storage system of the handset . The export node is typically created by the export module and is for storing files designed to be exported from the media card memory module of the handset .

The export node is a parent node of a contact node and a calendar node . The contact node is for storing the actual contacts that are to be exported from the handset . The calendar node is for storing the actual calendar items that are to be exported from the handset .

The contact node is a parent node of a replace all node an add node and an update node . The replace all node includes files intended to replace all of the existing contact entries on the persistent memory module of the handset . The add node includes contact entries intended to be added the persistent memory module of the handset in addition to other contact entries that already reside in the persistent memory module . The update node includes contact entries intended to change an existing contact entry in the persistent memory module of the handset .

The calendar node is a parent node of a replace all node an add node and an update node . The replace all node includes files intended to replace all of the existing calendar information on the persistent memory module of the handset . The add node includes calendar information intended to be added the persistent memory module of the handset in addition to other calendar information that already resides in the persistent memory module . The update node includes calendar information intended to change an existing calendar entry in the persistent memory module of the handset .

Although has been described as having a tree structure with nodes that branch out from the root node other directory structures can be used as well. For example any type of hierarchical file system can be implemented to achieve a similar specialized directory structure. Similarly a flat file system can also be used as well as a non hierarchical linking of files or directories.

In the case where the PC downloads the contact or the calendar information via the network to the media card formatted memory of the handset the handset is connected to the PC in mass storage mode and the PC can see the media card formatted memory as a virtual drive in the operating system. In the case where the PC downloads the contact or the calendar information via the network to the media card formatted memory of the PC the media card formatted memory is installed as a virtual drive in the operating system. In the case where the handset downloads the contact or the calendar information via the network to the media card formatted memory there is no connection to the PC .

In each of the three scenarios a connection is made at step to the contact or the calendar information via the network . For example a browser application in the PC or the client application module of the handset connects via the network to an email program such as Yahoo email. At step the user exports the contact or the calendar information from the network. For example if the user is accessing Yahoo email the user follows the instructions of the network based email program to perform the export function and can select the common format to export the contact or calendar information such as CSV VCAL or VCARD.

At step the user selects the location and the directory for the contact or calendar information. For example if the user intends to import the contact or calendar information as a complete replacement for existing contact or calendar information then the user would choose EFS Contact ReplaceAll or EFS Calendar ReplaceAll . Similarly if the user intends to add a new contact or update an existing contact the user selects the appropriate directory. The user also chooses the appropriate location for example the user would choose either the media card formatted memory or depending upon which of the above three scenarios is occurring.

Next at step the directory in the media card formatted memory receives the contact or the calendar information from the network converted to a common format. For example in scenario 1 the network can convert the contact or the calendar information to a CSV VCAL or VCARD format and transfer it over the Internet to a browser in the PC and the browser stores the contact or the calendar information in the media card formatted memory of the handset using the operating system virtual drive feature.

In scenario 2 the network can convert the contact or the calendar information to a CSV VCAL or VCARD format and transfer it over the Internet to a browser in the PC and the browser stores the contact or the calendar information in the media card formatted memory of the PC and the media card formatted memory is removed and installed in the handset as the media card formatted memory .

In scenario 3 the network can convert the contact or the calendar information to a CSV VCAL or VCARD format and transfer it over the Internet to a browser in the handset e.g. the client application module and the browser stores the contact or the calendar information in the media card formatted memory of the handset .

At step a synchronization condition is detected. In scenario 1 the synchronization condition is detected by handset when the cable between PC and handset is disconnected. In scenario 2 the synchronization condition is detected by the handset when media card formatted memory of the handset is installed. In scenario 3 the synchronization condition is detected by the handset when the client application module ends the download or when the client application module is ended.

In all three scenarios at step the handset detects the presence of the contact or the calendar information in the directory and the import module converts the contact or calendar information to a handset compatible format. For example the handset reads the file and converts the information from CSV VCAL or VCARD format into the local format of the handset . Thereafter at step the handset processes the contact or the calendar information to the persistent memory module . It should be noted that the persistent memory module as used herein is interchangeable with the data storage systems and of depending on whether the persistent memory module resides in the handset or the new handset .

It should be noted that the contact or the calendar information can be in a EFS Calendar Add .vcf EFS Calendar Update .vcf EFS Calendar ReplaceAll .Vcf EFS Contact Update .vcf EFS Contact ReplaceAll .Vcf or EFS Contact Add .vcf directories. Depending on the directories the processing at step will differ. For example if the contact is in EFS Contact ReplaceAll .Vcf the handset erases the contacts in the persistent memory module and places the imported contacts residing in the directory into the persistent memory module . Similarly if the contact is in EFS Contact Add .Vcf the handset merges or includes a new contact with existing contacts in the persistent memory module .

It should also be noted that in other embodiments only one directory is needed and the name of the VCARD VCAL or CSV file itself determines the processing that will occur. For example a contact can be named such that its name is indicative of a replace all add or update operation. In this embodiment having separate sub directories for each operation or for contact and calendar information is not required.

At step the handset determines if it should delete the contact or the calendar information in the directory. For example a user interface may prompt the user whether the imported files should be deleted. Alternatively the files may be automatically deleted to prevent recurring imports. If the user selects deletion of the files or if they are automatically deleted then at step the handset removes the contact or the calendar information from the directory. If the user selects that the file should be kept then after step the contact or the calendar information is not removed from the directory for example when the media card formatted memory is intended to be used as a distribution mechanism to update a number of devices.

In the case where the PC transferring the contact or the calendar information to the media card formatted memory the media card formatted memory is installed as a virtual drive of the operating system of the PC . In the case where the PC is transferring the contact or the calendar information to the media card formatted memory the handset is connected to the PC in mass storage mode and the PC can see the media card formatted memory as a virtual drive of the operating system of the PC .

In each of the two scenarios the application on the PC is executed. The application includes for example a PIM application such as Microsoft Outlook. Then at step the user exports the contact or the calendar information using the application features which can include selecting a common format to export the contact or calendar information such as CSV VCAL or VCARD.

At step the user selects the location and the directory for the contact or calendar information. For example in scenario 1 the location to save the contact or the calendar information is selected to be in the virtual drive showing the media card formatted memory . In scenario 2 the location to save the contact or the calendar information is selected to be in the virtual drive showing the media card formatted memory . The precise subdirectory for the file depends on whether it is a contact or calendar information and whether the operation is add update or replace all.

At step the application converts the contact or the calendar information to a CSV VCAL or VCARD format and stores it in either the media card formatted memory or the media card formatted memory depending on the scenario. At step a synchronization condition is detected. In scenario 1 this occurs for example when the media card formatted memory is removed and installed in the handset as the media card formatted memory . In scenario 2 the synchronization condition occurs when the when a cable between the PC and handset is disconnected.

In both scenarios at step the handset detects the presence of the contact or the calendar information in the directory of either of the media card formatted memories or and the import module converts the contact or calendar information to a handset compatible format. For example the handset reads the file and converts the information from CSV VCAL or VCARD format into the local format of the handset . Thereafter at step the handset processes the contact or the calendar information to the persistent memory module via the OS API module .

At step the handset determines if it should delete the contact or the calendar information in the directory. If the user selects deletion of the files or if they are automatically deleted then at step the handset removes the contact or the calendar information from the directory. If the user selects that the file should be kept then after step the contact or the calendar information is not removed from the directory.

In all three scenarios the handset is initially not connected to the PC in mass storage mode in order to enable a user interface on the handset . At step a synchronization condition is detected. The synchronization condition can be detected for example when the user selects a feature on the handset for exporting the contact or the calendar information or when an autonomous event occurs such as periodic time or whenever the contact or calendar information is changed.

In another embodiment an executable file can be placed in the export directory. The executable can be compiled for the destination computing device. When the synchronization condition is detected the executable is launched and it sends a command to trigger the export.

In one embodiment a diag or AT command can be sent from the handset which initiates the export of the contact or the calendar information automatically without requiring the user to manually trigger the export through a user interface menu or having the handset be reset or started up again.

At step the export module accesses the contact or calendar information in the persistent memory module for example using the OS API module and converts it from a handset compatible format to a common format such as CSV VCAL or VCARD. The common format can be pre selected or all of the common formats can be used. Thereafter at step the handset stores the contact or the calendar information in the specialized directory of the media formatted memory card e.g. export contact or export calendar .

At step the client is executed to connect to the network. In scenario 1 this includes for example connecting the PC and the handset using mass storage mode. This causes the PC to be able to see the media card formatted memory as a virtual drive in the operating system. A network browser e.g. Internet Explorer of the PC is then executed and links to a network email program such as Yahoo Email. In scenario 2 this includes for example removing the media card formatted memory from the handset and installing it on the PC as the media card formatted memory . This causes the PC to be able to see the media card formatted memory as a virtual drive in the operating system. A network browser e.g. Internet Explorer of the PC is then executed and links to a network email program such as Yahoo Email. In scenario 3 this includes for example the client application module on the handset being executed which links to a network email program.

At step the location and the directory for the contact or the calendar information is selected and the user imports the contact or the calendar information following the web pages of the network email program. Step may also include the user selecting a common format such as CSV VCAL or VCARD. The location includes either the media card formatted memory scenarios 1 and 3 or the media card formatted memory scenario 2 and the directory is the appropriate export directory depending on the operation being performed.

Thereafter at step the contact or calendar information is selected from the export directory and uploaded to the network. In scenario 1 this includes transferring the contact or the calendar information over the Internet from the media card formatted memory card by the browser of the PC to a network server where contact or calendar information is converted in the server from the common format into the server s local format. In scenario 2 this includes transferring the contact or the calendar information over the Internet from the media card formatted memory card by the browser of the PC to a network server where contact or calendar information is converted in the server from the common format into the server s local format. In scenario 3 this includes transferring the contact or the calendar information over the Internet from the media card formatted memory card by the client application module to a network server where contact or calendar information is converted in the server from the common format into the server s local format.

At step a synchronization condition is detected. The synchronization condition can be detected for example when the user selects a feature on the handset for exporting the contact or the calendar information or when an autonomous event occurs such as periodic time or whenever a contact or calendar information is changed. At step the location and the directory for the contact or the calendar information is selected. In the present scenario the location is the media card formatted memory and the directory is the import contact or the import calendar directory.

At step the contact or calendar information is accessed in the persistent memory module by the OS API module converted from the handset suitable format to the common format by the export module and placed in the media card formatted memory . At step the media card formatted memory is removed from the handset and installed into the new handset as the media card formatted memory .

At step a synchronization condition is detected by the new handset when the media card formatted memory is installed in the new handset . In response the contact or the calendar information is accessed and converted to a handset compatible format at step by the import module of the new handset . At step the new handset processes the contact or the calendar information to the persistent memory module using the OS API module .

This includes detecting the presence of the contact information in the import contact directory of the media card formatted memory or detecting the presence of the calendar information in the import calendar directory of the media card formatted memory . This also includes the new handset reading the contact or the calendar information and converting it from the common format into the format suitable for the new handset by the import module .

If the action is a replace all action for contacts for example then the OS API of the new handset erases the contacts in the persistent memory module and places the imported information into the persistent memory module . At step the new handset determines if it should delete the contact or the calendar information in the directory. If the user selects deletion of the files or if they are automatically deleted then at step the new handset removes the contact or the calendar information from the directory. If the user selects that the file should be kept then after step the process repeats at step because the user intends to use the media card formatted memory as a distribution mechanism to update a number of handsets.

At step a user starts an application on the handset and selects a contact to export. Alternatively the user can select all contacts to be exported. At step a synchronization condition is detected. The synchronization condition can be detected for example when the user selects a feature on the handset for exporting the contact or the calendar information or when an autonomous event occurs such as periodic time or whenever a contact or calendar information is changed.

At step the contact or calendar information is accessed for example in the persistent memory module by the OS API module and converted from the handset suitable format to the common format by the export module . At step an application is run on the handset which connects over a network to the server . At step the application on the handset sends the common format contact or calendar information to the server so that the information is stored into an export contact directory in a data storage system of the server . Thereafter at step the user or another application can then access the contact or calendar information.

At step the user or an application creates the contact or calendar information in a common format for example by converting the information from another format into the common format. Alternatively the contact or calendar information can already be in the common format so step may not be needed in one embodiment.

At step a location and a directory to save the contact or calendar information is selected. The location can be on the server in the data storage system . The directory to save the contact or calendar information can be a contact ReplaceAll directory. At step a synchronization condition is detected. The synchronization condition can be detected for example when the user selects a feature on the handset or when an autonomous event occurs such as the handset receiving a message from the network.

At step an application is run on the handset which connects over a network to the server . Thereafter the application on the handset detects the presence of a file or files in the contact ReplaceAll directory of the data storage system of the server at step .

At step the application fetches the contact or calendar information from the server and writes it into local memory and the handset converts the contact or calendar information from the common format into a format compatible with the handset. At step the handset processes the contact or calendar information and stored it to persistent memory.

Thereafter at step the handset determines if it should delete the contact or the calendar information in the directory on the server. If the user selects deletion of the files on the server then at step the handset instructs the server to remove the contact or the calendar information from the directory to prevent recurring imports. If the user selects that the file should be kept then after step the contact or the calendar information is not removed from the directory on the server.

In the illustrated embodiment the handset comprises an antenna system a radio system a baseband system a speaker a microphone a central processing unit CPU a data storage area and a hardware interface . In the handset radio frequency RF signals are transmitted and received over the air by the antenna system under the management of the radio system .

In one embodiment the antenna system may comprise one or more antennae and one or more multiplexors not shown that perform a switching function to provide the antenna system with transmit and receive signal paths. In the receive path received RF signals can be coupled from a multiplexor to a low noise amplifier not shown that amplifies the received RF signal and sends the amplified signal to the radio system .

In alternative embodiments the radio system may comprise one or more radios that are configured to communication over various frequencies. In one embodiment the radio system may combine a demodulator not shown and modulator not shown in one integrated circuit IC . The demodulator and modulator can also be separate components. In the incoming path the demodulator strips away the RF carrier signal leaving a baseband receive audio signal which is sent from the radio system to the baseband system .

If the received signal contains audio information then baseband system decodes the signal and converts it to an analog signal. Then the signal is amplified and sent to the speaker . The baseband system also receives analog audio signals from the microphone . These analog audio signals are converted to digital signals and encoded by the baseband system . The baseband system also codes the digital signals for transmission and generates a baseband transmit audio signal that is routed to the modulator portion of the radio system . The modulator mixes the baseband transmit audio signal with an RF carrier signal generating an RF transmit signal that is routed to the antenna system and may pass through a power amplifier not shown . The power amplifier amplifies the RF transmit signal and routes it to the antenna system where the signal is switched to the antenna port for transmission.

The baseband system is also communicatively coupled with the central processing unit . The central processing unit has access to a data storage area . The central processing unit is preferably configured to execute instructions i.e. computer programs or software that can be stored in the data storage area . Computer programs can also be received from the baseband processor and stored in the data storage area or executed upon receipt. Such computer programs when executed enable the handset to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described. For example data storage area may include various software modules not shown that were previously described with respect to .

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any media used to provide executable instructions e.g. software and computer programs to the handset for execution by the central processing unit . Examples of these media include the data storage area microphone via the baseband system antenna system also via the baseband system and hardware interface . These computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the handset . The executable code programming instructions and software when executed by the central processing unit preferably cause the central processing unit to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

The central processing unit is also preferably configured to receive notifications from the hardware interface when new devices are detected by the hardware interface. Hardware interface can be a combination electromechanical detector with controlling software that communicates with the CPU and interacts with new devices. The hardware interface may be a firewire port a USB port a Bluetooth or infrared wireless unit or any of a variety of wired or wireless access mechanisms. Examples of hardware that may be linked with the handset include data storage devices computing devices headphones microphones and the like.

The computer system preferably includes one or more processors such as processor . Additional processors may be provided such as an auxiliary processor to manage input output an auxiliary processor to perform floating point mathematical operations a special purpose microprocessor having an architecture suitable for fast execution of signal processing algorithms e.g. digital signal processor a slave processor subordinate to the main processing system e.g. back end processor an additional microprocessor or controller for dual or multiple processor systems or a coprocessor. Such auxiliary processors may be discrete processors or may be integrated with the processor .

The processor is preferably connected to a communication bus . The communication bus may include a data channel for facilitating information transfer between storage and other peripheral components of the computer system . The communication bus further may provide a set of signals used for communication with the processor including a data bus address bus and control bus not shown . The communication bus may comprise any standard or non standard bus architecture such as for example bus architectures compliant with industry standard architecture ISA extended industry standard architecture EISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA peripheral component interconnect PCI local bus or standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE including IEEE 488 general purpose interface bus GPIB IEEE 696 S 100 and the like.

Computer system preferably includes a main memory and may also include a secondary memory . The main memory provides storage of instructions and data for programs executing on the processor . The main memory is typically semiconductor based memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM and or static random access memory SRAM . Other semiconductor based memory types include for example synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM Rambus dynamic random access memory RDRAM ferroelectric random access memory FRAM and the like including read only memory ROM .

The secondary memory may optionally include a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive for example a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disc CD drive a digital versatile disc DVD drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage medium in a well known manner. Removable storage medium may be for example a floppy disk magnetic tape CD DVD etc.

The removable storage medium is preferably a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable code i.e. software and or data. The computer software or data stored on the removable storage medium is read into the computer system as electrical communication signals .

In alternative embodiments secondary memory may include other similar means for allowing computer programs or other data or instructions to be loaded into the computer system . Such means may include for example an external storage medium and an interface . Examples of external storage medium may include an external hard disk drive or an external optical drive or and external magneto optical drive.

Other examples of secondary memory may include semiconductor based memory such as programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory block oriented memory similar to EEPROM . Also included are any other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to the computer system .

Computer system may also include a communication interface . The communication interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices e.g. printers networks or information sources. For example computer software or executable code may be transferred to computer system from a network server via communication interface . Examples of communication interface include a modem a network interface card NIC a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card an infrared interface and an IEEE 1394 fire wire just to name a few.

Communication interface preferably implements industry promulgated protocol standards such as Ethernet IEEE 802 standards Fiber Channel digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous digital subscriber line ADSL frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM integrated digital services network ISDN personal communications services PCS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP serial line Internet protocol point to point protocol SLIP PPP and so on but may also implement customized or non standard interface protocols as well.

Software and data transferred via communication interface are generally in the form of electrical communication signals . These signals are preferably provided to communication interface via a communication channel . Communication channel carries signals and can be implemented using a variety of wired or wireless communication means including wire or cable fiber optics conventional phone line cellular phone link wireless data communication link radio frequency RF link or infrared link just to name a few.

Computer executable code i.e. computer programs or software is stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Computer programs can also be received via communication interface and stored in the main memory and or the secondary memory . Such computer programs when executed enable the computer system to perform the various functions of the present invention as previously described.

In this description the term computer readable medium is used to refer to any media used to provide computer executable code e.g. software and computer programs to the computer system . Examples of these media include main memory secondary memory including hard disk drive removable storage medium and external storage medium and any peripheral device communicatively coupled with communication interface including a network information server or other network device . These computer readable mediums are means for providing executable code programming instructions and software to the computer system .

In an embodiment that is implemented using software the software may be stored on a computer readable medium and loaded into computer system by way of removable storage drive interface or communication interface . In such an embodiment the software is loaded into the computer system in the form of electrical communication signals . The software when executed by the processor preferably causes the processor to perform the inventive features and functions previously described herein.

Various embodiments may also be implemented primarily in hardware using for example components such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . Implementation of a hardware state machine capable of performing the functions described herein will also be apparent to those skilled in the relevant art. Various embodiments may also be implemented using a combination of both hardware and software.

Furthermore those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block circuit or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module block or circuit to another without departing from the invention.

Moreover the various illustrative logical blocks modules and methods described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Additionally the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium including a network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing other than the appended claims.

