---

title: Filtered cigarette incorporating an adsorbent material
abstract: A filter element incorporating an adsorbent material is provided. The filter element may comprise a first section of filter material and a second section of filter material spaced apart to form a compartment therebetween. The compartment may be filled with one or more adsorbents or the compartment may be divided into two regions, wherein one compartment region is filled with an adsorbent and the other compartment region is either filled with an ion-exchange resin or remains empty. The section of filter material adjacent to the tobacco rod may include one or more channels therethrough for passaging smoke directly from the tobacco rod into the adsorbent-filled compartment. The mouth end section of filter material may contain a breakable capsule, wherein the breakable capsule is filled with a flavoring agent capable of altering the taste characteristics of mainstream smoke.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07827997&OS=07827997&RS=07827997
owner: R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 07827997
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070605
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 675 241 filed Sep. 30 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 240 678 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to smoking articles and in particular to smoking articles having the form of filtered cigarettes.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth in Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A smoker employs a cigarette by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

Activated carbon particles or other adsorbent materials such as silica gel can be incorporated into a cigarette filter. Exemplary cigarettes and filters therefor are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 353 543 to Sproull et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 481 958 to Ranier et al and in PCT WO 02 37990 to Bereman. Certain commercially available filters have particles or granules of carbon e.g. an activated carbon material or an activated charcoal material dispersed within a fibrous material such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 584 979 to Xue et al. Other commercially available filters have so called compartment filter or triple filter designs such as those filters described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 163 452 to Green et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 129 408 to Jakob et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 186 to Veluz as well as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0106562. European Patent Application 0 579 410 A1 describes a filter including an annular section of carbon particles surrounding a cellulose acetate filter section. U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. describes a filter comprising a gathered paper that includes a carbonaceous material. Adsorbent materials incorporated into a cigarette filter can be used as a substrate for functional groups such as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 481 442 to Dyakonov et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 595 218 to Koller et al. Flavorants can be added to activated carbon as described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0159703. Exemplary commercially available filters are available as SCS IV Dual Solid Charcoal Filter from American Filtrona Corp. Triple Solid Charcoal Filter from FIL International Ltd. Triple Compartment Filter from Baumgartner and ACT from FIL International Ltd.

Cigarette filter elements that incorporate carbon have a propensity to remove certain gas phase components from the mainstream smoke that passes through the filter element during draw by the smoker. Interaction of mainstream smoke with adsorbent substances such as carbon particles results in a certain degree of removal of certain gas phase compounds from the smoke. Such a change in the character of the smoke can result in changes in the sensory properties of the smoke. For example mainstream tobacco smoke that is filtered using a conventional cigarette filter element incorporating carbon can often be characterized as having slightly metallic drying and powdery flavor characteristics.

It would be desirable to provide a cigarette filter element that efficiently removes significant amounts of certain gas phase components of mainstream cigarette smoke. It would also be desirable to provide a cigarette filter that removes gas phase components of mainstream smoke while still yielding smoke with desirable sensory characteristics.

The present invention relates to filtered smoking articles such as cigarettes possessing filter elements. A representative filtered smoking article includes at least one adsorbent incorporated into the filter element. The adsorbent is adapted for adsorption of one or more gas phase constituents of mainstream smoke. The adsorbent is incorporated into one or more segments of a multi segment filter element. The filter elements of the present invention are capable of removing condensable gas phase components from mainstream tobacco smoke to a significant degree. Condensable gas phase components include organic compounds such as carbonyl compounds e.g. acetone formaldehyde acrolein and acetaldehyde . The present invention provides a cigarette comprising a tobacco rod and a filter element connected to the tobacco rod the filter element having an end proximal to the tobacco rod and an end distal to the tobacco rod.

In one embodiment the filter element comprises a first longitudinally extending section of filter material positioned at the end of the filter element proximal to the tobacco rod i.e. tobacco end section and a second longitudinally extending section of filter material positioned at the end of the filter element distal to the tobacco rod i.e. mouth end section and spaced apart from the first section of filter material the two sections thus forming and defining a compartment therebetween. An adsorbent material preferably in granular form such as granulated activated carbon is contained within at least a portion of the compartment.

A plurality of ventilation holes adapted for introducing air into the filter element are located at a point along the length of the filter element between the end of the filter element proximal to the tobacco rod and the approximate midpoint of the adsorbent containing portion of the compartment. Preferably the ventilation holes are overlying the adsorbent containing portion of the compartment specifically between the midpoint of the adsorbent containing portion of the compartment and the end of the adsorbent containing portion of the compartment proximal to the tobacco end section of filter material.

The first and second sections of filter material may comprise any filter material known for use in filter elements for cigarettes such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered polypropylene web gathered polyester web gathered paper and strands of reconstituted tobacco. Preferably the first and second sections of filter material are formed from a fibrous filter material such as plasticized cellulose acetate tow.

In one preferred embodiment the tobacco end section of filter material of the above described filter element has greater particulate removal efficiency than the mouth end section of filter material. For example the tobacco end section of filter material preferably comprises filaments having a lower weight per unit length than the filaments of the mouth end section of filter material. The tobacco end section of filter material can comprise filaments having a weight per unit length of less than about 2.5 denier per filament and the mouth end section of filter material can comprise filaments having a weight per unit length of greater than about 3.0 denier per filament.

In another embodiment at least one channel extends through the tobacco end section of filter material the channel being adapted for passage of mainstream smoke between the tobacco rod and the compartment containing the adsorbent material. A single channel may extend through the tobacco end section of filter material or a plurality of channels can be utilized. In one embodiment a single channel proximal to the central axis of the tobacco end section of filter material is used. In other embodiments a plurality of channels extend through the filter material either spaced along the periphery of the filter material or grouped in the area proximal to the central axis of the tobacco end section of filter material. The total cross sectional area of the one or more channels extending through the first section of filter material may be about 0.1 to about 50 mm preferably about 0.5 to about 15 mm.

In further embodiments of the filter element of the invention the compartment defined by the first and second longitudinally extending sections of filter material is divided into two sections or regions by a semi permeable barrier. The semi permeable barrier may be constructed of any material that allows permeation of mainstream smoke but retains the adsorbent material in a defined portion of the compartment. Exemplary materials for the semi permeable barrier include highly porous paper cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered polypropylene web and gathered polyester web.

The barrier divides the compartment into at least two regions. In one embodiment the barrier divides the compartment into a first region containing an adsorbent material such as activated carbon and a second region containing an ion exchange resin. Preferably both the adsorbent material and the resin are in granular form. The ion exchange resin is preferably a strong base anion exchange resin or a weak base anion exchange resin. In another embodiment an adsorbent material is contained within the region furthest from the end of the tobacco rod and the region nearest to the tobacco rod is empty thus creating a hollow space that can enhance intermixing of mainstream smoke prior to entry of the smoke into the portion of the compartment containing the adsorbent.

In yet another embodiment the filter element of the invention comprises an adsorbent material and at least one breakable capsule positioned in the mouth end section of filter material. The breakable capsule preferably comprises an outer gelatin shell and an inner liquid composition including one or more flavoring agents and a diluting agent. Positioning the breakable capsule downstream from the adsorbent material allows the smoker to selectively adjust the flavor of the cigarette as a means to complement taste attributes.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated herein by reference and which constitute a part of this specification illustrate certain embodiments of the invention and together with the detailed description serve to explain the principles of the present invention.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. It must be noted that as used in this specification the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The present invention is directed to filter elements adapted for use in filtering mainstream smoke generated by smoking articles such as cigarettes wherein the filter elements contain at least one adsorbent material. Referring to a smoking article in the form of a cigarette is shown. The cigarette includes a generally cylindrical rod of a charge or roll of smokable filler material contained in a circumscribing wrapping material . The rod is conventionally referred to as a tobacco rod . The ends of the tobacco rod are open to expose the smokable filler material. One end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and a filter element is positioned at the other end. The cigarette is shown as having one optional printed band on wrapping material and that band circumscribes the cigarette rod in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. That is the band provides a cross directional region relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The band can be printed on the inner surface of the wrapping material i.e. facing the smokable filler material or on the outer surface of the wrapping material. Although the cigarette shown in possesses wrapping material having one optional band the cigarette also can possess wrapping material having further optional spaced bands numbering two three or more.

The cigarette includes a filter element positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. Filter element has a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof is essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod. The ends of the filter element are open to permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element includes at least one segment or section of filter material e.g. plasticized cellulose acetate tow that is overwrapped along the longitudinally extending surface thereof with circumscribing plug wrap material . A typical plug wrap material is a paper material such as a paper that is porous or non porous to air flow. The filter element can have two or more segments of filter material and or flavor additives incorporated therein.

The filter element is attached to the tobacco rod by tipping material which circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod. The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive. A ventilated or air diluted smoking article is provided with an air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap . When air diluted the filter element normally is ventilated to provide a cigarette having an air dilution between about 10 and about 75 percent preferably about 30 to about 40 percent. As used herein the term air dilution is the ratio expressed as a percentage of the volume of air drawn through the air dilution means to the total volume of air and smoke drawn through the cigarette and exiting the extreme mouth end portion of the cigarette. See Selke et al. Beitr. Zur Tabak. In. Vol. 4 p. 193 1978 . The perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example the perforations can be made using mechanical or microlaser offline techniques or using online laser perforation.

Preferred cigarettes of the present invention exhibit desirable resistance to draw. For example an exemplary cigarette exhibits a pressure drop of between about 50 and about 200 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Preferred cigarettes exhibit pressure drop values of between about 60 mm and about 180 mm more preferably between about 70 mm to about 150 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Typically pressure drop values of cigarettes are measured using a Filtrona Filter Test Station CTS Series available from Filtrona Instruments and Automation Ltd or a Quality Test Module QTM available from the Cerulean Division of Molins PLC.

The dimensions of a representative cigarette can vary. Preferred cigarettes are rod shaped and have circumferences of about 17 mm to about 27 mm. The total length of the cigarette is typically about 80 mm to about 150 mm.

The length of the filter element can vary. Typical filter elements can have lengths of about 15 mm to about 65 mm frequently about 25 to about 50 mm. The tipping paper will typically circumscribe the entire filter element and about 4 mm of the length of the tobacco rod in the region adjacent to the filter element.

The wrapping materials used to circumferentially wrap the tobacco rod can vary. Preferably the wrapping material is a paper material such as the type of paper material typically used in cigarette manufacture. The wrapping material can have a wide range of compositions and properties. The selection of a particular wrapping material will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. Smokable rods can have one layer of wrapping material or smokable rods can have more than one layer of circumscribing wrapping material such as is the case for the so called double wrap smokable rods. The wrapping material can be composed of materials or be suitably treated in order that the wrapping material does not experience a visible staining as a result of contact with components of the smokable material e.g. aerosol forming material . Exemplary types of wrapping materials wrapping material components and treated wrapping materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 838 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry PCT WO 01 08514 to Fournier et al. PCT WO 03 043450 to Hajaligol et al. US Pat. Application 2003 0114298 to Woodhead et al. US Pat. Application 2003 0131860 to Ashcraft et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 324 418 filed Dec. 20 2002 Ser. No. 10 440 290 filed May 16 2003 and Ser. No. 10 645 996 filed Aug. 12 2003 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Representative wrapping materials are commercially available as R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Grades 119 170 419 453 454 456 465 466 490 525 535 557 652 664 672 676 and 680 from Schweitzer Maudit International. The porosity of the wrapping material can vary and frequently is between about 5 CORESTA units and about 100 CORESTA units often is between about 10 CORESTA units and about 90 CORESTA units and frequently is between about 20 CORESTA units and about 80 CORESTA units.

The wrapping material typically incorporates a fibrous material and at least one filler material imbedded or dispersed within the fibrous material. The fibrous material can vary. Most preferably the fibrous material is a cellulosic material. Preferably the filler material has the form of essentially water insoluble particles. Additionally the filler material normally incorporates inorganic components. The filler material may comprise catalysts or adsorbent materials capable of adsorbing or reacting with vapor phase components of mainstream smoke. Filler materials incorporating calcium salts are particularly preferred. One exemplary filler material has the form of calcium carbonate and the calcium carbonate most preferably is used in particulate form. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 805 644 to Hampl U.S. Pat. No. 5 161 551 to Sanders and U.S. Pat. No. 5 263 500 to Baldwin et al. and PCT WO 01 48 316. Other filler materials include agglomerated calcium carbonate particles calcium tartrate particles magnesium oxide particles magnesium hydroxide gels magnesium carbonate type materials clays diatomaceous earth materials titanium dioxide particles gamma alumina materials and calcium sulfate particles. The filler can be selected so as to impart certain beneficial characteristics to the wrapping material such as modification of combustion properties or the ability to adjust the character and content of mainstream smoke e.g. by adsorption of certain compounds .

The production of filter rods filter rod segments and filter elements and the manufacture of cigarettes from those filter rods filter rod segments and filter elements can be carried out using the types of equipment known in the art for such uses. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. Six up rods four up filter rods and two up rods that are conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al.

Tobacco materials useful for carrying out the present invention can vary. Tobacco materials can be derived from various types of tobacco such as flue cured tobacco burley tobacco Oriental tobacco or Maryland tobacco dark tobacco dark fired tobacco and tobaccos as well as other rare or specialty tobaccos or blends thereof. Descriptions of various types of tobaccos growing practices harvesting practices and curing practices are set for in Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . Most preferably the tobaccos are those that have been appropriately cured and aged.

Typically tobacco materials for cigarette manufacture are used in a so called blended form. For example certain popular tobacco blends commonly referred to as American blends comprise a mixture of flue cured tobacco burley tobacco and Oriental tobacco. Such blends in many cases contain tobacco materials that have a processed form such as processed tobacco stems e.g. cut rolled or cut puffed stems volume expanded tobacco e.g. puffed tobacco such as dry ice expanded tobacco DIET preferably in cut filler form . Tobacco materials also can have the form of reconstituted tobaccos e.g. reconstituted tobaccos manufactured using paper making type or cast sheet type processes . The precise amount of each type of tobacco within a tobacco blend used for the manufacture of a particular cigarette brand varies from brand to brand. See for example Voges Ed. p. 44 45 1984 Browne 3Ed. p. 43 1990 and Davis et al. Eds. p. 346 1999 . Various representative tobacco types processed types of tobaccos types of tobacco blends cigarette components and cigarette configurations are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 836 224 to Lawson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 924 888 to Perfetti et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 537 to Brown et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 159 942 to Brinkley et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. US Pat. Applications 2002 0000235 to Shafer et al. 2003 0075193 to Li et al. and 2003 0131859 to Li et al. PCT WO 02 37990 to Bereman U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 285 395 filed Oct. 31 2002 to Lawson et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 463 211 filed Jun. 17 2003 to Perfetti et al. and Bombick et al. 39 p. 11 17 1997 which are incorporated herein by reference.

Tobacco materials typically are used in forms and in manners that are traditional for the manufacture of smoking articles such as cigarettes. The tobacco normally is used in cut filler form e.g. shreds or strands of tobacco filler cut into widths of about 1 10 inch to about 1 60 inch preferably about 1 20 inch to about 1 35 inch and in lengths of about inch to about 3 inches . The amount of tobacco filler normally used within the tobacco rod of a cigarette ranges from about 0.5 g to about 1 g. The tobacco filler normally is employed so as to fill the tobacco rod at a packing density of about 100 mg cmto about 300 mg cm and often about 150 mg cmto about 275 mg cm.

If desired the tobacco materials of the tobacco rod can further include other components. Other components include casing materials e.g. sugars glycerin cocoa and licorice and top dressing materials e.g. flavoring materials such as menthol . The selection of particular casing and top dressing components is dependent upon factors such as the sensory characteristics that are desired and the selection of those components will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. See Gutcho Noyes Data Corp. 1972 and Leffingwell et al. 1972 .

One exemplary tobacco blend for use in the present invention comprises about 25 to about 98 weight percent flue cured tobacco about 10 to about 30 weight percent burley tobacco about 10 to about 30 weight percent Oriental tobacco about 10 to about 30 weight percent reconstituted flue cured and or Oriental tobacco leaf about 10 to about 50 weight percent expanded flue cured tobacco lamina optionally about 5 to about 20 weight percent expanded flue cured tobacco stems and about 2 to about 8 weight percent of a casing material. Optionally the blend may further include about 0.25 to about 2 weight percent of flavors in the form of a top dressing preferably about 0.5 to about 1.5 weight percent. A preferred top dressing composition comprises of flavors with vapor pressures not exceeding about 2.0 mm Hg. at 40 C.

In a preferred embodiment the tobacco blend comprises about 25 to about 70 weight percent flue cured tobacco about 12 to about 20 weight percent burley tobacco about 15 to about 20 weight percent Oriental tobacco about 15 to about 20 weight percent reconstituted flue cured and or Oriental tobacco leaf about 20 to about 30 weight percent expanded flue cured tobacco lamina optionally about 10 to about 15 weight percent expanded flue cured tobacco stems and a casing material in an amount of about 3 to about 5 weight percent.

The casing material preferably includes various flavoring ingredients known in the art such as cocoa licorice various sugars and glycerin. In one embodiment the casing material includes components derived or extracted from a fig plant e.g. Fig Supreme Flavor available from Bell Flavors Inc. . One exemplary casing composition is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. which is incorporated by reference herein.

The level of tar and nicotine delivered by the cigarettes of the invention will vary. Typically the cigarettes of the invention will deliver the tar and nicotine amounts described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 836 224 which is incorporated by referenced herein. Cigarettes of this invention generally deliver from about 0.2 mg to about 3.5 mg frequently from about 0.3 mg to about 2.5 mg more frequently from about 0.6 mg to about 1.2 mg of nicotine when smoked under FTC smoking conditions. Cigarettes of this invention generally deliver from about 0.5 to about 18 mg frequently from about 3 to about 13 mg more frequently about 5 to about 11 mg tar when smoked under FTC smoking conditions.

In one embodiment the tobacco blend includes a mixture of C3 C20 organic acids typically C3 C12 organic acids such as levulinic acid pyruvic acid and lactic acid. The mixture preferably includes levulinic acid and one or more additional C3 C6 organic acids. An exemplary organic acid mixture comprises levulinic pyruvic acid and lactic acid in a 1 1 1 ratio by weight. The amount of organic acid added to the cigarette preferably provides a ratio of organic acid to nicotine on a mole basis of about 1 1 to about 3 1 more preferably about 1.5 1 to about 2.5 1. In one preferred embodiment the ratio of moles of organic acid to moles of nicotine is about 2 1. The organic acids can be added as part of a casing or top dressing composition or can be added to one or more of the tobacco components of the tobacco blend prior to blending. For example the organic acids can be added to the aqueous extract formed during manufacture of a reconstituted tobacco sheet.

The tobacco blend may contain an aerosol forming material. The aerosol forming material can vary and mixtures of various aerosol forming materials can be used. Representative types of aerosol forming materials are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 793 365 to Sensabaugh Jr. et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 839 to Jakob et al. PCT WO 98 57556 to Biggs et al. and R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company Monograph 1988 which are incorporated herein by reference. A preferred aerosol forming material produces a visible aerosol upon the application of sufficient heat thereto and a highly preferred aerosol forming material produces an aerosol that can be considered to be smoke like. A preferred aerosol forming material is chemically simple relative to the chemical nature of the smoke produced by burning tobacco. A highly preferred aerosol forming material is a polyol such as glycerin.

The amount of aerosol forming material employed relative to the dry weight of smokable material present in a smokable rod can vary. For a smokable rod the amount of aerosol forming material present in that rod is more than about 2 percent and generally is more than about 3 percent of the combined dry weight of the aerosol forming material and tobacco material within that rod. For a preferred smokable rod the amount of aerosol forming material present in that rod typically is at least about 5 percent generally is at least about 10 percent often is at least about 15 percent frequently is at least about 20 percent and even can be at least about 25 percent of the combined dry weight of the aerosol forming material and tobacco material within that rod. For a preferred smokable rod the amount of aerosol forming material present in that rod typically does not exceed about 65 percent generally does not exceed about 60 percent often does not exceed about 55 percent and frequently does not exceed about 50 percent of the combined dry weight of the aerosol forming material and tobacco material in that rod. Smokable materials possessing exceedingly high levels of aerosol forming material typically are difficult to process into cigarette rods using conventional types of automated cigarette manufacturing equipment.

Cast sheet types of smokable materials typically can incorporate relatively high levels aerosol forming material. Reconstituted tobaccos manufactured using paper making types of processes typically can incorporate moderate levels of aerosol forming material. Tobacco strip and tobacco cut fuller can incorporate lower amounts of aerosol forming material. For processed materials such as cast sheet materials and paper type reconstituted tobaccos tobacco pulp materials that are extracted with aqueous liquids can be used as components thereof. The removal of essentially all or some fraction of the water soluble components of tobacco can assist in providing a processed material that is capable of acting as an effective substrate for higher levels of aerosol forming material. In addition dusting processed materials with dry tobacco powders can assist in providing processed materials having relatively high levels of glycerin while not demonstrating overly tacky or sticky characteristics. Cast sheet materials and particularly cast sheet materials incorporating certain amounts of tobacco pulp materials that have extracted with water often can comprise up to about 65 percent often up to about 60 percent and frequently up to about 55 percent aerosol forming material based on the dry weight of the tobacco and aerosol forming material in the material so produced. Paper type reconstituted tobacco materials and particularly those materials incorporating certain amounts of tobacco pulp materials that have extracted with water and not reapplying some or all of the water soluble extract components back to that pulp often can comprise up to about 55 percent often up to about 50 percent and frequently up to about 45 percent aerosol forming material based on the dry weight of the tobacco and aerosol forming material in the material so produced. A material produced by spraying tobacco strip or cut filler with aerosol forming material often does not comprise more than about 20 percent and frequently does not comprise more than about 15 percent aerosol forming material based on the dry weight of the tobacco and aerosol forming material of the material so produced.

Other types of materials incorporating relatively high levels of aerosol forming material can be incorporated into a smokable material blend. Formed encapsulated or microencapsulated materials can be employed. Such types of materials are composed primarily of aerosol forming material and those materials can incorporate some amount and form of tobacco. An example of such a type of material is a film produced by casting and drying an aqueous solution of about 70 weight parts glycerin and about 30 weight parts binder e.g. citrus pectin ammonium alginate sodium alginate or guar gum and then surface coating that film with about 2 weight parts of a finely divided powder that is provided by milling tobacco lamina.

In each embodiment shown at least one substance capable of removing at least one gas phase component of mainstream smoke is incorporated into the filter element. Preferably the substance is an adsorbent material capable of adsorbing one or more gas phase compounds from the mainstream smoke generated by a smoking article. Exemplary adsorbents include activated carbon molecular sieves e.g. zeolites and carbon molecular sieves clays activated aluminas silica gels and mixtures thereof. The amount of adsorbent within the filter element typically ranges from about 50 to about 250 mg often about 80 to about 150 mg and frequently about 90 to about 120 mg.

The form of the adsorbent may vary. Typically the adsorbent is used in granular or particulate solid form having a particle size of between about 8 16 mesh to about 30 70 mesh using the U.S. sieve system. However smaller or larger particles could be used without departing from the invention. The terms granular and particulate are intended to encompass both non spherical shaped particles and spherical particles such as so called beaded carbon described in WO 03 059096 A1 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The manner in which the adsorbent is incorporated into the filter element may vary. As shown in the appended drawings granulated adsorbent can be placed in a compartment within the filter element. However the adsorbent could also be imbedded or dispersed within a section of filter material such as a fibrous filter material e.g. cellulose acetate tow or incorporated into a paper such as the carbon containing gathered paper described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. In addition an adsorbent material can be placed both in a compartment and imbedded in one or more of the sections of filter material and the adsorbent material in the compartment and the adsorbent imbedded or dispersed in the filter material can be the same or different.

In one preferred embodiment the adsorbent is activated carbon. The level of activity of the carbon may vary. Typically the carbon has an activity of about 60 to about 150 Carbon Tetrachloride Activity i.e. weight percent pickup of carbon tetrachloride . Activated carbon most useful herein consists primarily of carbon and preferably has a carbon content above about 80 weight percent and more preferably above about 90 weight percent. Preferred carbonaceous materials are provided by carbonizing or pyrolyzing bituminous coal tobacco material softwood pulp hardwood pulp coconut shells almond shells grape seeds walnut shells macadamia shells kapok fibers cotton fibers cotton linters and the like. Carbon from almond shells grape seeds walnut shells and macadamia nut shells are particularly preferred and are believed to provide greater vapor phase removal of certain compounds as compared to coconut shell carbon. Examples of suitable carbonaceous materials are activated coconut hull based carbons available from Calgon Corp. as PCB and GRC 11 coal based carbons available from Calgon Corp. as S Sorb BPL CRC 11F FCA and SGL wood based carbons available from Westvaco as Wv B SA 20 and BSA 20 carbonaceous materials available from Calgon Corp. as HMC ASC GR 1 and SC II and Witco Carbon No. 637. Other carbonaceous materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 771 795 to White et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 027 837 to Clearman et al. and European Patent Application Nos. 236 922 419 733 and 419 981. Certain carbonaceous materials can be impregnated with substances such as transition metals e.g. silver gold copper platinum and palladium potassium bicarbonate tobacco extracts polyethyleneimine manganese dioxide eugenol and 4 ketononanoic acid. The carbon composition may also include one or more fillers such as semolina. Grape seed extracts may also be incorporated into the filter element as a free radical scavenger.

As shown the filter element includes ventilation holes that extend through the tipping paper and the plug wrap and thus provide air dilution of mainstream smoke. In this embodiment the ventilation holes are positioned between the approximate midpoint of the adsorbent containing portion of the compartment and the end of the filter element proximal to the tobacco rod . Preferably ventilation holes are in a position overlying the compartment and preferably positioned between the midpoint of compartment and the end of the compartment adjacent to the second section of filter material upstream from the compartment. Positioning the ventilation holes upstream of at least a portion of the adsorbent containing compartment can enhance adsorption of certain vapor phase components of mainstream smoke by the adsorbent .

The ventilation holes may be configured as a single line of perforations extending circumferentially around the filter element or may comprise several lines of perforations. As would be understood the exact count and size of the ventilation holes will vary depending on the desired level of air dilution.

The exact distance of the ventilation holes from the end of the filter element proximal to the tobacco rod will vary depending on the length of the individual segments of the filter such as the segment proximal to the tobacco rod. In certain embodiments the ventilation holes are about 10 to about 22 mm from the tobacco rod and typically when the ventilation holes are overlying the adsorbent containing compartment the holes are within about 5 mm of the section of filter material proximal to the tobacco rod preferably within about 2 mm.

In another embodiment of the filter element of the invention shown in the filter element includes a semi permeable barrier dividing the compartment into two sections or regions. Similar to the embodiment shown in at least a portion of the compartment is filled with an adsorbent . The section of the compartment containing the adsorbent is the downstream section of the compartment. The portion of the compartment upstream of the barrier is hollow. The hollow section of the compartment can provide a mixing region for the mainstream smoke prior to entry of the smoke into the adsorbent material which can contribute to vapor phase removal by the adsorbent .

The walls of the channel or channels may be defined by the material of the section of filter material or the channels can be formed using tubes not shown inserted into the filter material. If tubes are used the tubes may comprise cellulose acetate polyethylene or any other polymeric material capable of forming a self supporting structure.

The total cross sectional area of the one or more channels can vary. Typically the total cross sectional area of the channel or channels is about 0.1 to about 50 mm frequently about 0.5 to about 15 mm. The cross sectional shape of the channels is not critical to the invention and may be for example rectangular or circular. The diameter of each channel or tube can vary. Typically the diameter of each channel or tube is about 0.5 to about 8 mm frequently about 1 to about 3 mm. The diameter of the channel or tube is selected so as to prevent migration of the adsorbent into the channel or tube i.e. the diameter of the channel or tube is smaller than the diameter of the adsorbent particles .

In an alternative embodiment similar to the embodiment shown in illustrates an embodiment wherein the ion exchange resin is dispersed or imbedded within a section of filter material rather than in a portion of the compartment . As noted above the relative placement of the ion exchange resin and the adsorbent may vary. As a result the particles of the ion exchange resin could alternatively be dispersed within the mouth end section of filter material or both sections of filter material.

The ion exchange resin can comprise any polymer having active groups in the form of electrically charged sites capable of displacement upon interaction with ions of opposite charge. Typically the ion exchange resin comprises a polymer backbone such as styrene divinylbenzene DVB copolymers acrylates methacrylates phenol formaldehyde condensates and epichlorohydrin amine condensates and a plurality of electrically charged functional groups attached to the polymer backbone. The ion exchange resin is preferably a weak base anion exchange resin or a strong base anion exchange resin. Exemplary resins include DIAION ion exchange resins available from Mitsubishi Chemical Corp. e.g. WA30 and DCA11 and DUOLITE ion exchange resins available from Rohm and Haas e.g. DUOLITE A7 .

The form of the ion exchange resin can vary. Generally the ion exchange resin will be in solid particulate form having a particle size of between about 8 16 mesh to about 30 70 mesh using the U.S. sieve system.

A further embodiment of the filter element of the invention is illustrated in . As shown this embodiment also includes a compartment between two sections of filter material and . The compartment contains an adsorbent . The mouth end section of filter material comprises at least one breakable capsule contained therein. The capsule can be simply imbedded in the filter material . In the embodiment shown in the section of filter material comprises an annular outer section and an inner portion that includes a compartment therein adapted for receiving the breakable capsule . As shown one or both ends of the inner portion of the filter material may be crimped to retain the breakable capsule within the filter element . Each breakable capsule carries a payload incorporating a compound that is intended to introduce some change to the nature or character of mainstream smoke drawn through that filter element e.g. a flavoring agent . The smoker may selectively rupture the capsule in order to release the flavoring agent. It is believed that the use of a breakable capsule containing a flavoring agent downstream of the adsorbent material will provide the smoker with the ability to compliment taste attributes of the smoking article. Since the flavoring agent contained in the capsule is downstream of the adsorbent there is minimal interaction with the adsorbent material. The filter element shown in having a breakable capsule therein can be manufactured as described in copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 600 712 filed Jun. 23 2003 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The tipping material connecting the filter element to the tobacco rod can have indicia not shown printed thereon. For example a band not shown can indicate to a smoker the general location or position of the capsule within the filter element . These indicia may help the smoker to locate the capsule so that it can be more easily ruptured by squeezing the filter element directly outside the position of the capsule. The indicia on the tipping material may also indicate the nature of the payload carried by the capsule . For example the indicia may indicate that the particular payload is a spearmint flavoring by having a particular color shape or design.

If desired the smoker may rupture the capsule at any time before during or even after the smoking experience. Breakage of the capsule acts to release the contents that are contained and sealed therein. Release of the contents of the capsule into the filter element thus enables the smoker to achieve the intended benefit of action of certain of those contents whether that benefit results from flavoring or scenting the smoke cooling or moistening the smoke freshening the scent of the cigarette butt or achieving some other goal associated with modifying the overall composition of the smoke or altering the performance characteristics of the cigarette. That is in highly preferred embodiments a portion of the payload e.g. portions of a flavoring agent that has been released into the filter element is incorporated into each subsequent puff of mainstream smoke that is received through that filter element.

Application of tactile pressure to the capsule for example by a squeezing action provided by the fingers of the smoker to the filter element causes relevant regions of the filter element to deform and hence causes the capsule to rupture and release its payload to the compartment interior of the filter element. The rupture of the capsule can be discerned by an audible pop snap or a rapid decrease in the resistance to the pressure applied by the smoker. Rupture of the capsule causes contents of its payload to disperse throughout the compartment and throughout the filter tow material in the outer annular filter section . Most preferably the overall cylindrical shape of the filter element returns to essentially its original shape after the application of pressure to the filter element is ceased.

The compartment that houses the capsule preferably possesses a generally circular and or conical cross sectional shape and has a diameter of about 3 mm to about 4 mm at its widest point. However the walls of the compartment may be defined by compressible and deformable material e.g. plasticized cellulose acetate and the compartment may be manufactured so as to have a greater or smaller diameter. Accordingly the compartment may accept one or more capsules having diameters of at least about 1 mm typically at least about 2 mm and often at least about 3 mm. Typically the capsules have diameters that do not exceed about 6 mm often do not exceed about 5 mm and frequently do not exceed about 4.5 mm. Certain preferred capsules have diameters in the range of about 3 mm to about 4 mm in diameter and certain highly preferred capsules are approximately 3.5 mm in diameter.

The capsule is generally spherical in shape and possesses a rigid outer shell such as a gelatin outer shell that surrounds an internal payload. Suitable capsules are commercially available from Mane Aromatic Flavors located in Nice France as gelatin encapsulated mixtures of medium chain triglycerides and flavor agents. The designations of a number of flavor capsules that are available from Mane Aromatic Flavors are Spearmint E209123 Cinnamon E0303392 Russian Tea E0303386 Lemon E127382 and Menthol E127384. Such representative capsules have diameters of about 3.5 mm and about 4 mm.

The outer shell of the capsule is preferably constructed of a food grade gelatin derived from bovine picine or porcine stock. A wide variety of gelatins may be used and the selection of a gelatin for the capsule outer surface is considered a matter of design choice to those of ordinary skill in the art. See Kirk Othmer 4Ed. 12 406 416 1994 which is incorporated herein by reference. The type of gelatin used for constructing the outer shell of the capsule provides that capsule with the capability of being exposed to triacetin a common plasticizer used in cigarette filter manufacture or 1 2 propylene glycol a common tobacco casing component for relatively long periods of time without experiencing undesirable interaction e.g. dissolution of the gelatin therein . Because the gelatins used in the preferred embodiments may dissolve in water over extended periods of time it is desirable to employ virtually anhydrous payloads or payloads possessing very low amounts of water with capsules having gelatin outer coatings.

The capsule payload can have a form that can vary and typically the payload has the form of a liquid a gel or a solid e.g. a crystalline material or a dry powder . The payload can incorporate components that aid in flavoring or scenting mainstream cigarette smoke. Alternatively the payload may be a breath freshening agent for the smoker a deodorizing agent for the cigarette butt a moistening or cooling agent for the cigarette smoke or a composition capable of otherwise altering the nature or character of the cigarette.

In the preferred embodiment the payload is a mixture of a flavoring and a diluting agent or carrier. The preferred diluting agent is a triglyceride such as a medium chain triglyceride and more particularly a food grade mixture of medium chain triglycerides. See for example Radzuan et al. 39 33 38 1999 . Flavorings of the payload may be natural or synthetic and the character of these flavors can be described without limitation as fresh sweet herbal confectionary floral fruity or spice. Specific types of flavors include but are not limited to vanilla coffee chocolate cream mint spearmint menthol peppermint wintergreen lavender cardamon nutmeg cinnamon clove cascarilla sandalwood honey jasmine ginger anise sage licorice lemon orange apple peach lime cherry and strawberry. See also Leffingwill et al. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . Flavorings also can include components that are considered moistening cooling or smoothening agents such as eucalyptus. These flavors may be provided neat i.e. alone or in a composite e.g. spearmint and menthol or orange and cinnamon . Composite flavors may be combined in a single capsule as a mixture or as components of multiple capsules positioned within the filter element.

The amount of flavoring and diluting agent within the capsule may vary. In some instances the diluting agent may be eliminated altogether and the entire payload can be composed of flavoring agent. Alternatively the payload can be almost entirely comprised of diluting agent and only contain a very small amount of relatively potent flavoring agent. In the preferred embodiment using a capsule of approximately 3.5 mm in diameter the weight of the liquid payload e.g. flavoring agent and diluting agent is preferably in the range of about 15 mg to about 25 mg and more preferably in the range of about 20 mg to about 22 mg. The preferred composition of the mixture of flavoring and diluting agent is in the range of about 5 percent to about 25 percent flavoring and more preferably in the range of about 10 to about 15 percent flavoring by weight based on the total weight of the payload with the balance being diluting agent.

The above filter element embodiments are not mutually exclusive meaning that aspects of more than one filter embodiment may be combined to further enhance the properties of the filter. For example a filter combining an adsorbent and ion exchange resin as shown in can also include the flow channels shown in and or a hollow compartment as shown in and or a breakable capsule as shown in .

In each embodiment described above the first section of filter material and the second section of filter material may comprise any filter material capable of filtering particulate matter entrained in mainstream smoke generated by a smoking article. Exemplary filter materials include cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered polypropylene web gathered polyester web gathered paper and strands of reconstituted tobacco. In preferred embodiments each section of filter material and comprises a fibrous filter material such as cellulose acetate tow.

The sections of filter material and may further include a plasticizing component such as triacetin or carbowax. In one embodiment the plasticizer component of the filter material comprises triacetin and carbowax in a 1 1 ratio by weight. The total amount of plasticizer is generally about 4 to about 20 percent by weight preferably about 6 to about 12 percent by weight.

Each section or segment of filter material and can vary in length. Typically each section of filter material is about 5 to about 25 mm in length frequently about 5 to about 15 mm in length.

The particulate removal efficiency of each segment of filter material in the filter element can vary. For fibrous filter materials particulate removal efficiency is preferably quantified in terms of weight per unit length of the filaments forming the fibers. Exemplary filter materials exhibit a filtration efficiency of about 1.8 to about 10 denier per filament. Each filter segment in a multi segment filter element can have the same or different filtration efficiency. In one embodiment the section of filter material proximal to the tobacco rod has a higher particulate removal efficiency than the section of filter material distal from the tobacco rod. For example the filaments of the tobacco end section of filter material can have a lower weight per unit length than the filaments of the mouth end section of filter material . Exemplary filaments for use in the tobacco end section of filter material have a weight per unit length of less than about 2.5 denier per filament preferably about 1.8 to about 2.5. Exemplary filaments for use in the mouth end section of filter material have a weight per unit length of greater than about 3.0 denier per filament preferably about 3.0 to about 10.0. Alternatively the mouth end section of filter material can have higher particulate removal efficiency than the tobacco end section of filter material .

In each of the embodiments described above the compartment formed between the two sections of filter material and has a length of about 5 to about 50 mm typically about 5 to about 30 mm. In those embodiments wherein the compartment is divided into two compartments the semi permeable dividing barrier may be any material that is permeable to mainstream smoke but impermeable to the adsorbent and thus able to retain the adsorbent in a defined portion of the compartment. Exemplary semi permeable barriers include highly porous paper e.g. about 100 CORESTA and above and any of the materials suitable as the sections of filter material and .

The length of the barrier will vary. Typically the barrier will have a length of about 0.5 to about 10 mm more preferably about 0.5 to about 5 mm. Each compartment of the divided compartment will typically have a length of about 5 to about 20 mm frequently about 5 to about 10 mm.

If desired suitable catalytic compounds e.g. for the conversion of carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide can be incorporated into one or more segments of the filter element . Exemplary catalysts include noble metals e.g. silver gold platinum metal oxides ceramics and mixtures thereof.

The following examples are provided to illustrate embodiments of the present invention and should not be considered to limit the scope of the invention or the claims appended hereto. Unless otherwise noted all parts and percentages are by weight. The cigarettes so described in the examples can be handmade or manufactured by machine using for example a Pilot Cigarette Maker from Hauni Werk Korber Co. KG.

A cigarette is prepared using a representative American blend comprising about 13 percent burley tobacco about 20 percent flue cured tobacco about 17 percent reconstituted tobacco material and about 17 percent Oriental tobacco. About 3 percent of an aqueous casing material comprising humectants and flavors is applied to the tobacco blend prior to cutting into filler form. About 30 percent expanded composed of primarily flue cured tobacco is then added to the cut tobacco blend to prepare the final cut filler. The blend is equilibrated to final moisture content of about 13 percent prior to cigarette manufacture.

The tobacco blend is used to prepare a cigarette having a length of about 84 mm. The tobacco rod length is about 57 mm and the filter element length is about 27 mm. The tobacco rod includes a charge of tobacco cut filler weighing about 0.600 g contained in a circumscribing cigarette paper wrap of the type that is available as No. 456 from Tervakoski. The tipping material circumscribes the length of the filter element and extends about 4 mm down the length of the tobacco rod.

The filter element of the cigarette has the general configuration as shown in . Filter elements of this general type are available from Baumgartner Inc. Switzerland. The cigarette has a filter element comprising a 12 mm mouth end cellulose acetate tow 2.5 denier per filament 35 000 total denier segment with 7 triacetin a 7 mm compartment filled with granular carbon available as G277 85 carbon tetrachloride activity and size 20 50 mesh from PICA and an 8 mm cellulose acetate tow 8.0 32 000 tobacco end segment with 7 triacetin.

A ring of laser perforations is provided around the periphery of each cigarette about 13 mm from the extreme mouth end thereof. The perforations penetrate through the tipping paper and plug wrap and can be provided using a Laboratory Laser Perforator from Hauni Werk Korber Co. KG. The cigarettes are air diluted to about 34 percent. The cigarettes yield about 10 mg tar and 0.8 mg nicotine when smoked under FTC smoking conditions.

Cigarettes are provided as described in Example 1 except the filter element comprises an 8 mm mouth end end cellulose acetate tow 8.0 32 000 segment with 7 triacetin a 7 mm compartment filled with granular carbon available as G277 85 carbon tetrachloride activity and size 20 50 mesh from PICA and a 12 mm cellulose acetate tow 2.5 35 000 tobacco end segment with 7 triacetin. The cigarettes yield about 10 mg tar and 0.8 mg nicotine when smoked under FTC smoking conditions.

The cigarette of Example 2 made with the filter segment having the higher particulate removal efficiency proximal to the tobacco rod and with the ventilation holes positioned closer to the tobacco rod provides greater reduction in certain volatile and semi volatile mainstream smoke components as compared to the cigarette of Example 1 when smoked under FTC smoking conditions. The cigarettes of Example 2 provide about 5 percent reduction of catechol about 28 percent reduction in p m cresol about 17 percent reduction in formaldehyde about 29 percent reduction in acetaldehyde about 65 percent reduction in acetone about 67 percent reduction in acrolein and about 28 percent reduction in hydrogen cyanide.

Cigarettes are provided as described in Example 1. However a flavor capsule is inserted by hand into the mouth end plasticized cellulose acetate tow such that the capsule is imbedded in the mouth end section of filter material. This flavor capsule is obtainable from Mane Aromatic Flavors as Reference E127384 menthol . The cigarettes can be smoked with or without breaking the capsule.

Exemplary cigarettes are prepared using a tobacco rod paper wrap and tipping material as described in Example 1. The tobacco rod length of the exemplary cigarettes is about 57 mm and the filter element length is about 30 mm.

The exemplary cigarettes have the general configuration shown in . The exemplary cigarettes have a filter element comprising a 10 mm mouth end cellulose acetate plug of 2.5 35 00 tow with 7 triacetin a 7 mm compartment filled with granular activated carbon available as G277 from PICA 85 carbon tetrachloride activity particle size 20 50 mesh a 2 mm cellulose acetate plug of 2.5 35 000 tow a 5 mm hollow compartment and a 6 mm cellulose acetate plug of 8.0 32 000 tow with 7 triacetin proximal to the tobacco rod. The cigarettes are air diluted to about 34 percent. The cigarettes yield about 10 mg tar and 0.8 mg nicotine when smoked under FTC smoking conditions.

The exemplary cigarettes having the divided compartment containing the adsorbent in the downstream compartment and having a hollow upstream compartment provides greater reduction of certain vapor phase mainstream smoke components as compared to the cigarette of Example 1 when smoked under FTC smoking conditions. The exemplary cigarettes provide about 6 reduction of formaldehyde about 7 reduction in acetaldehyde about 11 reduction in acetone and about 8 reduction in acrolein.

Exemplary cigarettes are prepared using a tobacco rod paper wrap and tipping material as described in Example 1. The tobacco rod length of the exemplary cigarettes is about 57 mm and the filter element length is about 27 mm.

The exemplary cigarettes have a filter element comprising an 8 mm mouth end end cellulose acetate tow 8.0 32 000 segment with 7 triacetin a 7 mm compartment filled with granular carbon available as G277 85 carbon tetrachloride activity and size 20 50 mesh from PICA and a 12 mm cellulose acetate tow 2.5 35 000 tobacco end segment with 7 triacetin. The tobacco end segment of filter material in some exemplary cigarettes comprises 6 tubes 0.2 to 3 mm in diameter inserted around the periphery. The tobacco end segment of filter material in other exemplary cigarettes comprises a single tube 0.2 to 3 mm in diameter inserted in the center of the filter segment. The cigarettes are air diluted to about 34 percent. The cigarettes yield about 10 mg tar and 0.8 mg nicotine when smoked under FTC smoking conditions.

The exemplary cigarettes having one or more tubes in the tobacco end segment of filter material provide greater reduction of certain vapor phase mainstream smoke components as compared to the cigarette of Example 1. The exemplary cigarettes provide about 13 18 reduction of formaldehyde about 3 4 reduction in acetaldehyde about 7 12 reduction in acetone and about 15 16 reduction in acrolein.

Exemplary cigarettes are prepared using a tobacco rod paper wrap and tipping material as described in Example 1. The tobacco rod length of the exemplary cigarettes is about 57 mm and the filter element length is about 27 or 31 mm.

The first exemplary cigarette has a filter element comprising a 10 mm mouth end cellulose acetate tow 2.5 denier per filament 35 000 total denier segment with 7 triacetin a 7 mm compartment filled with granular carbon available as G277 85 carbon tetrachloride activity and size 20 50 mesh from PICA a 2 mm low efficiency cellulose acetate tow 8.0 32 000 with 7 triacetin a 4 mm compartment filled with polymeric ion exchange resin benzenemethanamine ar ethyenyl N N dimethyl polymer with divinylbenzene known as DCA11 particle size 16 50 mesh from Mitsubishi Chemical Corp. and an 8 mm cellulose acetate tow 8.0 32 000 tobacco end segment with 7 triacetin. The second exemplary cigarette has a filter element comprising a 12 mm mouth end cellulose acetate tow 2.5 denier per filament 35 000 total denier segment with 7 triacetin a 7 mm compartment filled with granular carbon available as G277 85 carbon tetrachloride activity and size 20 50 mesh from PICA. and an 8 mm cellulose acetate tow 8.0 32 000 tobacco end with 7 triacetin and DCA11 ion exchange resin embedded within the cellulose acetate fibers. The cigarettes are air diluted to about 34 percent. The cigarettes yield about 10 mg tar and 0.8 mg nicotine when smoked under FTC smoking conditions.

The exemplary cigarettes containing activated carbon and an ion exchange resin provide greater reduction of formaldehyde as compared to the cigarette of Example 1 when smoked under FTC smoking conditions. The experimental cigarettes provide about 18 32 reduction of formaldehyde.

Exemplary cigarettes are prepared using a tobacco rod paper wrap and tipping material as described in Example 1. The tobacco rod length of the exemplary cigarettes is about 57 mm and the filter element length is about 27 mm.

The exemplary cigarettes have a filter element comprising a 12 mm mouth end cellulose acetate tow 2.5 denier per filament 35 000 total denier segment with 7 triacetin a 7 mm compartment filled with granular almond shell carbon 70 carbon tetrachloride activity and size 20 50 mesh from PICA and an 8 mm cellulose acetate tow 8.0 32 000 tobacco end segment with 7 triacetin. The cigarettes are air diluted to about 34 percent. The cigarettes yield about 10 mg tar and 0.8 mg nicotine when smoked under FTC smoking conditions.

The exemplary cigarettes containing almond shell carbon provides greater reduction of carbonyl compounds as compared to the cigarette of Example 1 containing coconut shell carbon G277 when smoked under FTC and alternative smoking conditions. The exemplary cigarettes provide about 20 40 reduction of carbonyls.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present invention can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

