---

title: Medical care administration system and method
abstract: A medical care administration system that continuously provides accurate identifications of what medical care orders are due for administration in a medical care facility. The system uses a services oriented architecture to provide an interface with a pharmacy. The architecture provides message formats and respective data definitions in a web services descriptive language. Thus, data relating to medical care orders may be stored in a relational database in normative format of definitions that is independent of known pharmacy codes and definitions. With the system, all written orders are sent to a pharmacy by facsimile copy and returned to the care facility in electronic form for comparison with the written order. The system further provides a user interface that leads a person through an administration process and simplifies creation of an electronic administration record.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08930206&OS=08930206&RS=08930206
owner: Remedi Technology Holdings, LLC
number: 08930206
owner_city: Baltimore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070420
---
The present application claims the filing benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 745 314 filed Apr. 21 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to a system for ordering calling for an administration of and creating a record of medications and treatments given to patients or residents in a medical care facility.

Every medical care facility currently has a paper based manual or semi automated system for ordering calling for an administration of and creating a record of medications and treatments given to patients or residents. For example a long term care facility may consist of resident rooms organized in a number of wings. Each wing may have 10 15 resident rooms with 20 30 residents and one nurses station. The nurses station is the administrative center for the wing and is the location where care givers perform paperwork communicate with physicians a pharmacy and any other entity required for care of residents in the wing. In such an exemplary facility a physician makes rounds and creates or changes medication and or treatment orders for the residents. A nurse may call or fax these orders to the pharmacy and also write the order information on the existing paper charts supplied by the pharmacy the previous month. The pharmacy enters all orders into a pharmacy management system. The pharmacy then prepares associated medications for shipment to the facility. The facility receives medication orders from the pharmacy one or more times per day. The nurse checks the delivery contents and signs the packing list and then places the orders into appropriate cart drawers with other products. As a service to the facility the pharmacy prints all orders to be performed on the resident on charts for documentation by the care giver. Throughout the month the facility submits new orders discontinues or changes existing orders for entry into the pharmacy computer system and documents these orders in writing on the current month s charts.

Near the end of the month the pharmacy prints all orders on a series of charts for subsequent documentation. Medication orders appear on a Medication Administration Record MAR treatment orders appear on a Treatment Administration Order TAR and the combination of medications treatments and other orders appear on a Physician Order Sheet POS which is a master record of resident orders. The pharmacy prints the charts for delivery to the facility for the next month s resident charting. When the facility receives the charts they compare the newly printed charts to the current month s charts to ensure that the pharmacy received all orders and entered all orders accurately. This tedious process of checking and editing as required may take up to 40 hours per month to complete for an average size facility.

A medication pass is a regularly scheduled activity which occurs during an interval of time where medications treatments and other orders are administered or given to a patient or resident. There are usually four scheduled medication passes per day for example in the morning at noon in the evening and at night. On each scheduled pass the nurse reviews a MAR on a cart containing all products for a particular resident to determine which activities or events need to be performed or given during the medication pass. Each order may also contain accompanying vital signs orders alerting the nurse that a vital sign must be taken along with the medication administration. The nurse then prepares the medications enters the resident room gives the medications to the resident and then initials and writes the date and pass time on the MAR. If the resident did not take the medication for some reason the nurse notes the reason on the chart. If a resident requires an as needed medication the nurse administers it and follow the same charting procedure as the scheduled medication. A treatment pass is similar to a medication pass. At certain times during a day a nurse may administer treatments for example bandage changes applying ointments etc. The nurse also initials and charts treatments on a TAR that is a separate record from the MAR in the patient s chart.

The above systems are helpful in preventing errors in the administration of medications and treatments but are dependent on human paper record keeping activities that by nature are not error free. Thus on occasion errors do occur in the ordering dispensing and administration of medications and treatments and errors further occur in the creation of records associated with those processes.

While automating the above systems may seem simply a matter of following the instructions on an order such systems are very complex and difficult to automate. For example when an order is created it is assigned a rate of reoccurrence based either on the number of administrations within a time period for example take three times a day or at a periodic rate for example take every 8 hours. Also the order will have some prescribed duration for example a day 10 days 90 days etc. An automated system may predict or pre calculate medication or treatment administration schedules over some standard window for example 30 days or 100 administrations. The pre calculated values are stored or printed and serve as a gold standard for when the medication or treatment should be administered. In other known systems the precalculation of a future administration may be made in response to charting an administration of a medication immediately preceding the future administration.

However the calculation of when a medication or treatment is to be administered is based on many factors and further many of these factors are likely to change over time. For example a patient or resident may be moved from one wing of a facility that administers a morning medication at 8 AM to another wing that administers the medication at an earlier or later time. Further those times may change on a daily basis depending on availability of staff and other factors. When those times change the pre calculations of administrations are no longer accurate and they will either remain inaccurate or will need to be recalculated for example mentally by the care giver who is familiar with the changes.

Under other circumstances some of the factors required for a pre calculation cannot be known when the order is created. For example an order for a pain assessment after an order for pain medication as needed is only required if the pain medication was in fact given. Thus any pre calculation of administrations of medications and treatments will often be erroneous by the time a medication or treatment is due to be administered.

Further a pre calculation of administration of medications and treatments may be based on an iterative series of calculations. In other words in order to calculate a current administration accurately an immediately preceding administration has to be calculated accurately. Thus as the calculations move further along in the series over the administration duration all intervening administrations must be calculated first and calculated accurately. Further the rules for calculating a generally iterative series may be complex and therefore cannot be run on an as needed basis using the current information. Thus there is a tension between the need to recalculate often to increase the accuracy of the predicted administration schedules while at the same time not calculating so often that the system becomes bogged down. The end result is that such a system only meets the goals of accuracy flexibility and performance in a limited and compromised fashion.

Thus there is a need for a system that does not have the disadvantages and faults of the known systems described above.

The medical care administration system described and claimed herein provides the benefits of an electronic administration record of any type while maintaining known processes of originating medical care orders in a medical care facility and passing the medical care orders to a pharmacy. Therefore there are no new procedures for nurses to learn in entering written medical care orders into the system. Further after being transformed into an electronic format the medical care orders are queued in a computer in the medical care facility and a nurse simply compares a screen display of the medical care order with the original written order. This process is very efficient and requires only minimal time by the nurse. The nurse has the ability of accept reject or change the medical care order in the computer before accepting it. While the medical care administration system does not require a nurse to create and electronic entry of the written order the system does permit a nurse to optionally create an electronic entry of an order if such is deemed necessary for example if the pharmacy is closed or if there is an emergency situation.

In one embodiment of the invention an apparatus provides data that may be used to generate an electronic administration record of a medical care order that was created in a medical care facility. The apparatus includes a facsimile transmission apparatus for transmitting a facsimile copy of a written order for medical care from the medical care facility to a pharmacy. A pharmacy computer stores an electronic pharmacy order for the medical care order and an application receives the electronic pharmacy order from the pharmacy computer. The application server is operable transform the electronic pharmacy order into first data that is stored in a relational database. The application server is operable to send the first data to a nurses computer in the medical care facility. The nurses computer presents on a display screen a first display permitting a comparison between the first data and the written order for medical care and a second display permitting an acceptance of the first data as accurately representing the written order for medical care.

In a further embodiment of the invention a method provides data that may be used to generate an electronic administration record of a medical care order created in a medical care facility. The method includes producing a written order for medical care within the medical care facility faxing the written order for medical care to a pharmacy converting the written order for medical care to an electronic pharmacy order for medical care receiving an electronic pharmacy order for medical care with an application server storing in a relational database first data that may be used to generate an electronic administration record of the medical care order transmitting the first data to a computer in the medical care facility comparing the first data with the written order for medical care and accepting the first data as accurately representing the written order for medical care.

The medical care administration system further utilizes a services oriented architecture to provide an interface with a pharmacy. The architecture provides message formats for different types of medical care orders and respective data definitions in a web services descriptive language. The pharmacy enters the a written medical care order in a pharmacy computer system in accordance with the message formats and data definitions. When the pharmacy sends the pharmacy order to an application server associated with the medical care facility the pharmacy order is transformed into data that is stored in a relational database and may subsequently be used to create an eMAR. By using the message formats and data definitions the stored data is in a normative format of definitions that are independent of codes and descriptions that a pharmacy may otherwise use. Thus if all pharmacies use the message formats and data definitions the stored data is the same for all substantially identical medical care orders regardless of the pharmacy used. Further since the pharmacy does the data entry the burden of that task does not fall on nurses in the medical care facility. In addition while a pharmacy is converting from a paper MAR system to eMAR system described herein the paper MAR system may be run in parallel with the eMAR system until the eMAR system is fully tested. Since with the medical care administration system there is no change in how written orders are sent to the pharmacy this system testing period of running dual systems places a minimal burden on the medical care facility.

In another embodiment of the invention an apparatus provides data that may be used to generate an electronic medical administration record of a medical care order created in a medical care facility. The apparatus includes a facsimile transmission apparatus that transmits a facsimile copy of a written order for medical care from the medical care facility to a pharmacy. A website that is accessible by the pharmacy stores a message format for a medical care order and data definitions for the medical care order using a web services description language. A pharmacy computer is operable to store an electronic pharmacy order for the medical care order utilizing the message format and the data definitions. An application server receives the electronic pharmacy order from the pharmacy computer and is operable to store first data in a relational database representing the electronic pharmacy order the first data being consistent with the message format and the data definitions.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a method provides data that may be used to generate an electronic administration record of a medical care order created in a medical care facility. The method includes providing a message format for a medical care order and associated data definitions using a web services description language creating with a computer associated with a pharmacy an electronic pharmacy order for the medical care order using the message format and the associated data definitions receiving the electronic pharmacy order for the medical care order with an application server storing in a relational database first data that may be used to generate an associated electronic administration record in a normative format of definitions derived from the message format and the associated data definitions.

The medical care administration system advantageously continuously provides a care giver with up to date and accurate information with respect to which medications and treatments are due to be administered. Thus the medical care administration system eliminates potential disadvantages that arise from precalculated administration schedules due to changes that were made after the precalculated administration schedules were made. Further the medical care administration system automatically creates and maintains accurate electronic MARs and TARs and further substantially eliminates all paper associated with the maintenance of records recording administration of medications and treatments.

In a still further embodiment the invention provides method for operating a system for facilitating an administration of medical care. The method includes storing in a database data for an order for medical care from which can be determined an identity of a person to receive the medical care an identity of one of a pharmaceutical and a treatment an order start date a frequency of administration an order duration and a time of administration determining in response to storing the data for the order for medical care start and stop times of a first administration interval with respect to the order start date calculating a number of start times of respective administration intervals occurring between the order start date and a first time after storing the data for the order for medical care calculating a number of stop times of respective administration intervals occurring between the order start date and the first time comparing the number of start times to the number of stop times and determining that the order for medical care is due for administration at the first time in response to the number of start times not being substantially equal to the number of stop times.

The medical care administration system has a computer associated with a cart used to administer the medical care order. The computer advantageously may be operated exclusively by a touch screen and has a series of screen displays that lead a nurse through an administration of the medical care order. The screen displays automatically assist a nurse in performing charting activities associated with a medical care administration for example the charting of blood sugar units of insulin administered and the administration site when an insulin injection is administered. The screen displays are designed so the a nurse can electronically chart medical care administrations with little or no training.

In yet a further embodiment of the invention a method provides data that may be used to generate electronic medical administration records of respective medical care orders created in a medical care facility. The method includes providing first data relating to medical care orders to a computer associated with an administration cart used in administering the medical care orders generating with the computer a first screen display identifying persons in the medical care facility currently requiring administrations of respective medical care orders generating with the computer and in response to a first person being selected from the first screen display a second screen display. The second screen includes a display portion identifying the first person a first display area identifying medical care orders currently due for administration to the first person a first button display for selecting a first medical care order a second display area identifying medical care orders selected for administration the second display area identifying the first medical care order in response to the first button display being selected and upon the first medical care order being identified in the second display area the first medical care order ceases to be identified in the first display area a second button display for selecting the first medical care order as being administered a third display area identifying medical care orders ready for charting the third display area identifying the first medical care order in response to the second button display being selected and upon the first medical care order being identified in the third display area it ceases to be identified in the second display area and a third button display for updating electronic medical administration records for respective medical care orders identified in the third display area.

These and other objects and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent during the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the drawings herein.

 Medical care facility means a hospital nursing home long term care facility or other facility in which the health of a patient or resident is tended to or managed by an agent or employee of the facility by medical care. While in general a patient is often associated with a hospital and a resident is often associated with a long term care facility for purposes of this document patient and resident are used interchangeably.

 Medical care means an administration of a medication or pharmaceutical either prescription or nonprescription or a treatment for example taking a temperature blood pressure blood sugar level or similar activity changing dressings monitoring pain or other patient related activity.

 Nurse means any person who provides medical care to another and in this document nurse and care giver are used interchangeably.

 Electronic administration record or EAR means any type of administration record for medical care that is generated and stored in electronic form and includes without limitation a medication administration record a treatment administration record or any other medical care administration record.

 Server means a computer which provides some service for example file sharing for other computers or devices connected to it via a wired or wireless network.

 Wireless Network means any type of telecommunications network a part of which transmits data from one device to another without using wires or fiber optic cables.

 Cache means memory in a computer that is set aside as a specialized buffer storage that is continually updated and used to optimize data transfers between system elements with different characteristics.

 Floor value for a real number r is the largest integer no greater than r. Thus the floor value for 0.85 is zero the floor value for 2.1 is 2 and the floor value for a negative 1.3 is a negative 2.

Referring to in one exemplary embodiment a medical care administration system is shown interfaced with one or more pharmacies and their respective nursing home customers . At a high level the medical care administration system provides an electronic version of a paper based MAR and TAR commonly used by medical care facilities. The paper based MARs and TARs are printed by a pharmacy and delivered to a medical care facility once a month and contain instructions to the nurse as to when to give medications and or treatments and further provide a place to document or chart the administration activity or event.

With the medical care administration system medical care instructions are presented to care givers on screens of respective cart computers which are physically located on respective carts . The carts may be medication carts that contains the medications that are to be administered or treatment carts that contains instruments and supplies used to administer treatments. The care givers also uses the medical care administration system to document during each medication pass med pass the fact that medications and treatments were administered along with any other pertinent information that was collected during the med pass. Other pertinent medical care information may include but is not limited to blood pressure levels body temperatures sites of administrations other treatments orders PRN medications follow ups and free form text notes.

In this exemplary embodiment the medical care administration system may include one or more application servers that are in electronic communications with one or more database servers which in turn are connected to a relational database that may be implemented with commercially available relational database software from a supplier such as Oracle Corporation. The application servers also run respective EAR web services software that receives orders for medical care that is EAR transactions from respective pharmacies by means of a secure connection over one or more wireless networks . The application servers further utilize respective interface adaptors with respective transform and load ETL rules software to process the orders for medical care and provide corresponding order data to the database servers which control a reading and writing of order data to and from the relational database . In addition the application servers are in electronic communications via respective web servers which in turn have secure connections over one or more external wireless networks and with the cart computers and nurses station computers in each of the medical care facilities 

The exemplary embodiment of illustrates that the medical care administration system may utilize multiple components that are generally commonly numbered. However in other embodiments only a single one of the multiple components may be used. In the discussion to follow only one of the multiple components will be referenced. However it is understood that when the medical care administration system utilizes multiple ones of the various components its operation is substantially similar to a system utilizing singular components as hereinafter described.

A pharmacy receives a facsimile copy of a written order for medical care via an electronic communications link with a medical care facility . The pharmacy often has a pharmacy computer system for day to day operations including medical care order entry and fulfillment. In a process of order entry the pharmacy computer system utilizes a services oriented architecture provided by EAR web services software running on the application server . The EAR web services may provide a website that provides order entry message formats and associated data definitions in a web services description language that provides a Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . The pharmacy computer system acquires and attaches EAR transaction data relating to an order for medical care for example a medication treatment or other activity. The pharmacy computer system utilizes a pharmacy interface gateway and security certificate to send SOAP compliant EAR transactions over the wireless networks to a website operated by EAR web services . The web services accepts data relating to the EAR transactions that is a medical care order sent from the pharmacy computer system checks it for accuracy and then passes the EAR transaction data through the interface adaptor . The ETL rules are applied to the EAR transactions from the pharmacy computer system to provide comparable EAR data using a normative format of definitions that are consistent with the message formats and associated data definitions. The EAR data is transferred by a database server to the relational database . The cart computer and nurses station computer are able to conduct EAR related operations using the EAR data by accessing the relational database via one or more wireless networks in the medical care facility in combination with one or more external wireless networks connectable with the web server the application server and the database server .

Each cart has a WINDOWS based cart computer that runs EAR application software that as will be subsequently described guides care givers through a medication and or treatment administration process in a real time basis. The cart computer presents respective medication and or treatment instructions and provides display screens permitting an administration of a medication or treatment that is an activity or event to be documented or charted in the cart computer . The cart computer may be any wireless mobile computing device including laptop tablet and handheld computers. The EAR application being run by the cart computer may include a graphical user interface application business logic data access logic and a persistent data cache. The graphical user interface may be developed as a Flash application which executes in a commercially available Flash player. The business application logic may be written in a general purpose programming language such as Java technology.

The application server may execute software that provides services to the EAR applications running on the cart computer . The application server s services enable EAR applications to search for data retrieve data record data update data and exchange messages with each other among others. The application server s services are implemented in business application logic which may be executed as Java software components running in a Java Application Container that which may be provided by a Sun Microsystems Java Virtual Machine. The application computer also has a cache and another service of the application server is to synchronize the data in the application server cache with the data in the cache in the cart computer . Thus the cart computer always has current data so that orders may be accurately and reliably administered.

Each nurses station has a WINDOWS based computer that runs a nurses station application software that gives a nurse a capability of accepting medical care orders that were sent from the pharmacy computer system. In addition the nurses station application software provides other capabilities that include but are not limited to generating reports adding users to the system discharging a patient reading a photo from a digital camera associating the photo with a patient entering nurses notes monitoring late administrations and follow up activities placing orders on hold directly entering orders for medical care for example treatments and indicating if a patient is temporarily out of the nursing home.

One feature of the medical care administration system is to provide the benefits of an EAR for example eMAR eTAR or other electronic administrative record with minimal impact and minimal change to existing activities and procedures practiced by nurses and other care givers at a medical care facility . A further feature of the medical care administration system is to electronically mimic existing activities and procedures used in providing a paper based MAR or TAR as well as lead a care giver through a medication pass or other administration activity so that the system can be used with little or no training.

The above features are reflected in an exemplary order flow diagram shown in . New orders and changes in orders are communicated by phone fax or verbally from a physician to a nurse within a medical care facility . The orders can be for medications treatments PRN medications follow ups or relate to an admission discharge or transfer ADT of a patient or resident. Most often a nurse writes the order on a standard form for example a telephone order form and faxes the order to the pharmacy via an electronic communications link . The order is also placed in the patient s chart and a copy of the order is put in a recap box near the nurses station computer . This order entry process is substantially identical to a currently practiced order entry process that is widely used with paper based MAR and TAR systems. Thus the order entry process is familiar to nurses is reasonably efficient and does not require any new or unfamiliar data entry activity by the nurse. As will be appreciated the physician may also fill out an order form from an office and fax the form to both the pharmacy and the medical care facility . In any event with the medical care administration system all written orders for medical care are sent from the medical care facility to the pharmacy by facsimile copy. There is no process in the medical care facility of creating an electronic medical care order comparable to the written order. Nor is there a process in the medical care facility of sending an electronic medical care order to the pharmacy. Further the substantive information flow relating to medical orders is unidirectional from the medical care facility to the pharmacy via facsimile copy of the written order. There is no electronic communications data link between the medical care facility and the pharmacy providing a bidirectional flow of information relating to the order. While telephonic communications between personnel in the medical care facility and the pharmacy may occur substantive changes to a medical care order may only be authorized by a facsimile communication from the medical care facility by the pharmacy .

Upon being received by the pharmacy the faxed order may be entered into the pharmacy computer system by a pharmacy order entry person. A pharmacist then uses the pharmacy computer system to retrieve review approve and print labels for the order. The order is then physically filled either by the pharmacist or by another qualified person. The filled orders whether for medication or supplies are then delivered to the medical care facility . The above processes of a pharmacy receiving a faxed order filling the order and delivering the ordered medications and supplies to the medical care facility are known.

Electronic pharmacy order data relating to the medical care order is then sent from the pharmacy computer system to an application server within the medical care administration system . The point in time at which the pharmacy order data is sent to the application server by the pharmacy computer system may vary from pharmacy to pharmacy. In some applications the data may be sent to the application server immediately after the pharmacy order entry process. In other applications the pharmacy order data may not be sent to the application server until after the pharmacist has approved the order within the pharmacy computer system . In still further applications pharmacy order data may not be sent to the application server until after the order is filled and ready for delivery. Regardless of the application the policies procedures and processes within the pharmacy determine when pharmacy order data is sent from the pharmacy computer system to the application server . Further there is no mechanism by which the application server can override the policies procedures and practices of the pharmacy with respect to when pharmacy order data is sent to the application server . Further still electronic pharmacy order data flows only unidirectionally from the pharmacy computer system to the application server . There is no pharmacy order data flow from the application server to the pharmacy computer system .

Referring again to EAR web services is part of a services oriented architecture and is executed by the application server upon receiving pharmacy order data sent from the pharmacy computer system . The pharmacy order data is checked it for accuracy and stored as EAR data in database via the database server . The pharmacy order data is generated with the EAR web services using a simple object access protocol SOAP having an extensible markup SOAP XML format that is consistent with message formats and data definitions as described above. As noted earlier while there are many commonly used codes and descriptions by different pharmacies there is no universally accepted format that all pharmacies use to specify the orders received. There are known systems that provide a proprietary interface for each pharmacy which interprets the codes and descriptions unique to that pharmacy for example a HL 7 interface. Such interfaces are costly to develop implement and maintain. In contrast with the services oriented technology each pharmacy may express its order information in a common relatively user friendly SOAP XML format. Thus order data from different pharmacies is provided to the application server in a common structure organization and format. Further the pharmacy order data may then be stored in the relational database as EAR data using the normative format of definitions that provides uniform expressions for all of the medical care orders and their respective administrations independent of the pharmacy submitting the order.

The services oriented technology may be implemented in different ways. For example a single web service message may be defined and all medical care orders would be expressed by a pharmacy with in the one format of the single web service message. However in this exemplary embodiment six different web services messages have been created to handle the various order requirements for example a new medication order message a new nonmedication or treatment order message a change medication order message a change nonmedication order message a refill order message and a discontinue order message. Such different messages are chosen to make the web service messages more user friendly with unique and easily understood functional descriptors and data definitions.

Various rules of use are also provided with respect to each order message. The rules specify what type of orders are to be used with each order message and the data definitions that are associated with each order message. In addition the web services oriented technology provides numerous SOAP objects defined in the web services description language that may be ASCII text. The pharmacy computer system may support JAVA or C program stubs that can be compiled to read the SOAP files in the pharmacy computer system and transfer the SOAP files to the application server .

Examples of SOAP data definitions for different order objects in the six different order messages are set forth in . It is the responsibility of the pharmacy to enter the order into the pharmacy computer system utilizing the SOAP data definitions associated with the particular web services message being utilized. present a table of exemplary data definitions associated with a medication order object. present a table of exemplary data definitions associated with a nonmedication order object. presents a table of exemplary data definitions associated with a discontinue and void order object. presents a table of exemplary data definitions associated with a resident demographics object. presents a table of exemplary data definitions associated with a physician demographics order object and presents an exemplary data definition associated with an administration event override object. While the data definitions of present a fundamental group of data definitions for each of the order messages other data definitions may be created on how to handle different situations that may arise with any particular order message. With each of the pharmacies utilizing a common SOAP XML format a respective interface adapter and ETL rules executed by the application server permits a simple mapping of each pharmacy order data being received into normalized definitions of EAR data for a respective medical care order which is then stored in the relational database .

Continuing with a description of the exemplary order flow shown in upon an order being sent from the pharmacy computer system to the application server the order is then forwarded and queued within a nurses station computer . After a nurse logs into the nurses station computer as shown in an incoming orders display may be provided on a display screen . The screen has a first area in the upper right hand corner that displays the current time date and name of the nurse logged onto the computer . A green light display is illuminated if the nurses station is in communications with the wireless networks required to maintain communications with the application server . Thus the light display is not illuminated while there is a loss of connectivity with the wireless networks. The incoming orders and names of the residents associated with the orders are listed in a display area along the left hand side of the screen display . Upon being accepted an order and its associated resident is automatically moved to an accepted orders area . If rejected the display of the order and the associated resident is automatically moved from the incoming order display area to the rejected orders display area of the screen .

In the orders acceptance process a nurse first identifies and selects an order to be reviewed from the incoming orders display area . The selection is often done by using cursor moved by a mouse or keys of a keyboard or touching button displays on the screen display of a touch screen used with the nurses station computer . Upon selecting an order to be reviewed for acceptance for example a LIPODERM order the nurses station computer provides a screen display shown in . The nurse then retrieves a copy of the original LIPODERM written order from the recap box that was prepared in response to the physicians instructions. The nurse first checks that the medication name it s strength and directions presented in the orders display area to match the original written order. If not the nurse selects the reject button . Thus the order acceptance process is a test of quality of the electronic order data in the database . Selecting the reject button causes the screen of to again be displayed with the LIPODERM order in the rejected orders area of . In addition the rejection of the LIPODERM order is sent to the application server which initiates a LIPODERM order rejection electronic fax to the pharmacy .

If the medication name it s strength and directions are correct for the LIPODERM order as displayed in the nurse then checks the prescribed administration schedule the order grouping order category and activities associated with the order to determine whether they match the original order. If not the nurse may use the button displays in the display area to make the appropriate additions and corrections so that the screen display of matches the original written order. In addition the nurse may enter additional activities that are appropriate as well as change an administration schedule by selecting a button display which provides other displays permitting administration times to be selected. When the screen display matches the original written LIPODERM order and appropriate adjusts are made the nurse then selects the accept order button display . The screen of is again displayed and the order for LIPODERM is moved from the incoming orders display area to the accepted orders display area .

Upon the order being accepted by the nurse as indicated in the nurses station computer provides an electronic copy of the accepted order with any changes back to the application server for storage in the database . The accepted LIPODERM order stored in the database is then immediately sent to the cart computers . The application server also initiates an electronic fax of the accepted LIPODERM order to the pharmacy . As indicated by the order notifications box in upon input instructions from a nurse the nurses station computer may via the application server initiate electronic faxes to the pharmacy that provide additional instructions to for example request refills reject orders modify orders discontinue medications or admit discharge or transfer a resident. Thus all communications from the medical care facility to the pharmacy are by fax or other transmission that provides a facsimile copy of the original written order.

One feature of the medical care administration system is the ability to accurately determine at any time which medications and treatments are due to be administered. The following example will relate to a medication order that is communicated to the pharmacy fax communications as earlier described. Such an order generally includes an identity of a person to receive the medication an identity of a medication an order start date a frequency of administration and an order duration. Information relating to the medication order is then input into the pharmacy computer system sent to the application server for storage in the database accepted at the nurses station computer and then sent to the cart computer .

In most medical care environments a medication or treatment is considered to be administered in a timely manner if it is administered in a two hour administration interval or window of time that extends from one hour before a prescribed administration time until one hour after a prescribed administration time. For example a medication or treatment that is prescribed to be given at 9 AM is considered timely administered if it is given in a time interval between 8 AM and 10 AM. Failure to administer in that two hour interval is a failure that can adversely effect the quality of care being given to a patient. Further as indicated earlier there are circumstances in which a patient may be moved staffing may change a different prescription may be ordered etc. which may result in a change of medication treatment and or a prescribed schedule of administration. It is important that the medical care administration system rapidly responds to those changes so that the cart computer provides accurate and up to date information to a nurse with respect to what medications and treatments that is activities or events are due to be administered.

In contrast to known systems that precalculate times for administration of medications and treatments the medical care administration system continuously and repeatedly calculates on the fly and in real time which medications and treatments are currently due or late at the time of the calculation. Thus any time a nurse logs onto a cart computer the cart computer accurately displays all medications and treatments that are currently due and provides all the information necessary to administer the medication or treatment. In addition the administration of the medication and treatment may be electronically charted thereby permitting administration records such as MARs and TARs to be automatically created.

The calculation of administrations currently due may at different times be performed for different purposes by either the application server the cart computer the nurses station computer or another computer within the system . Assume for purposes of this example that the medical care order is for a prescription medication and that the calculation is being conducted by the cart computer . To facilitate the calculation the data in the relational database is stored in the cart computer in a number of tables as represented by the entity relationship diagram of which is an exemplary embodiment of core elements of a data model for calculating which orders for medical care are currently due. The lines and symbols joining the tables represent the cardinality of the data between various tables. Certain data within the tables are assigned global universal identifications GUID .

A frequency definition table contains code data that is used to denote a frequency of administration of medical care. For example the code QD often means a frequency of administration of once per day. A code BID often represents a frequency of administration of twice per day. A code for Q8H often represents a frequency of administration of every eight hours. The codes are contained within the eMAR transactions or orders for medical care that are received from the pharmacy . While many of the codes have a universal meaning there are many other codes that are unique to different pharmacies. The interface adaptor and ETL rules provide a mapping layer for a particular pharmacy that transforms the diverse codes in the eMAR transactions from that pharmacy into normative definitions in the form of frequency id s that have a common meaning throughout the medical care administration system . For example if different pharmacies use different codes that in effect represent substantially identical frequencies of administration. A common frequency id will be stored in the frequency definition table for those different codes for use by the medical care administration system . As indicated by the cardinality symbols the frequency id for a particular order is also placed in an orders table and a frequency definition elements table.

The orders table further contains a resident id that comes from a person table and is created from data representing the first name and last name of the person receiving the medical care. The orders table establishes an order id based on the resident id and a prescription or RX number received from the pharmacy. The orders table further contains a start date for the prescription.

In addition to a frequency id for a particular order the frequency definition elements table contains a start time and a stop time. The start and stop times define an interval or window of time within which the first administration is due and as previously discussed the interval start and stop times are often one hour before and one hour after respectively a prescribed administration time. Further the interval start and stop times are measured in minutes from midnight or 12 00 AM. Therefore if a first administration is scheduled for 9 00 AM an interval start time value is 480 minutes or 8 AM and an interval stop time value is 600 minutes or 10 AM. The frequency definition elements table further contains data relating to a repeat interval in hours or months. Therefore for a medication that is to be given once per day the repeat hours would have a value of 24. Given the frequency id start and stop times and repeat interval the frequency definition elements table establishes a frequency definition element id which is provided to a frequency elements table.

The frequency elements table further contains an order id value and start offset and stop offset values. The start and stop offset values are utilized if the time of the first administration is to be delayed for some period of time after the order start date provided in the orders table. For example an order from the pharmacy may have a start date of Jan. 1 2007 but there are instructions not to give the first administration until Jan. 2 2007. The start offset and stop offset values are stored in minutes. Dimensionally defining the interval start and stop times and the start and stop offset times in minutes provides a system resolution or level of granularity that is distinctive from many known systems. A unique frequency element id is determined from the order id frequency definition element id and start and stop offsets.

Referring to an example of a time line of administration interval start and stop times is illustrated. The calculation to determine which orders for medical care administration are currently due simply determines whether the current time is inside or outside of an administration interval. It does this by calculating the number of intervals between a current time and an effective start date of the order. The effective start date is the order start date plus any start offset. If the current time is at the circle there has been one interval start time and one interval stop time from the effective start date. The number of interval start and stop times is equal and therefore the current time is between administration intervals and an administration of the order is not due. However if the current time is at the circle there have been three interval start times but only two interval stop times. The number of interval start times is not equal to the number of interval stop times and therefore the corresponding order is due for administration at the current time .

The calculation to determine whether an administration for a medication is due is further expressed in a call graph of which shows how the calculation utilizes the data in the tables in . Further illustrates a specific example of data and object relationships using the data in the tables in for a calculation of a frequency of administration code QD that is an administration once per day. Assume a start date in the orders table of Jan. 1 2007 a first administration time of 9 AM and further assume that the start and stop offsets are zero. That provides in the frequency definition elements table an interval start time of 8 AM or 480 minutes and an interval stop time of 10 AM or 600 minutes. The repeat interval of once a day is 24 hours. Further assume that the current time is 9 AM on Jan. 3 2007. Referring back to the call graph of assuming a zero start offset the first interval start time is 480 minutes after the effective start date of midnight Jan. 1 2007 that is at 8 AM. The delta start is determined by calculating the number of hours from the first interval start time to the current time of 9 AM on Jan. 3 2007 that is 49 hours. That interval is divided by the repeat interval of 24 hours to provide a delta start value of 2.04. A similar calculation is preformed with respect to the interval stop time. The first interval stop time is 10 AM on Jan. 1 2007 which is 47 hours before the current time of 9 AM on Jan. 3 2007. That value is divided by the 24 hour interval to yield a delta stop value of 1.96. The mathematical floor values of the delta start and stop values are respectively 2 and 1. Since at 9 AM on Jan. 3 2007 the number of interval start times is different from or not equal to the number of interval stop times it is determined that the current time is within an administration interval. Therefore the medication associated with this order is now currently due for administration to the patient.

Taking another example of a current time of 7 AM on Jan. 3 2007 the current time is 47 hours from the first interval start time of 8 AM which when divided by the interval time of 24 hours provides a delta start value of 1.95. The current time of 7 AM on January 3rd is 43 hours from the first interval stop time which provides a delta stop value of 1.79. The floor values of the delta start and delta stop values are both 1 and thus equal. Therefore the calculation determines that the current time of 7 AM on Jan. 3 2007 is not within an administration interval for this order.

A further example is shown in in which an administration frequency code of BID means a frequency of administration of twice a day. In this example the administrations are scheduled for 9 AM and 4 PM each day. Further in this example each administration schedule has its own frequency element id and two separate interval calculations are made for the two respective administration schedules. The first administration schedule has an interval start time of 8 AM or 480 minutes after midnight and an interval stop time of 10 AM or 600 minutes after midnight. The second administration schedule of 4 PM has an interval start time of 3 PM or 900 minutes after midnight and an interval stop time of 5 PM or 1200 minutes after midnight.

Referring to a further example in the frequency of administration code Q8H identifies a frequency of administration of every 8 hours daily. The administrations are equally spaced over a 24 hour period and thus the repeat hours interval in the frequency definitions elements table may be set to 8 hours. Further the interval start time is 7 AM or 420 minutes and the interval stop time is 9 AM or 540 minutes.

The calculation is repeated executed by the cart computer with sufficient frequency that the identities of administrations due for persons in the medical care facility displayed by the cart computer is always up to date. The calculation can be executed every time that the cart computer detects a change in data relating to an order administration schedule. The calculation may also or alternatively be periodically executed based over fixed or variable time intervals and further the time intervals may vary from seconds to hours depending on a level of activity at any particular time. While the above example of the calculation is directed toward a medication order the calculation is equally applicable to orders for treatments and other activities requiring charting including but not limited to blood pressure pulse rate blood oxygen level respiration weight pain assessment intervention lung sounds PRN administration PRN follow up oral supplements and other activities required for medical care. Thus presuming orders for medical care and any changes thereto are properly entered by a pharmacy into the system the display on the cart computer identifying all administrations of medical care due is a very accurate and reliable representation of the state of medical care required for the residents and can be relied on with a very high level of confidence.

The above described calculation engine uses an algorithm that is non iterative and can be executed using a declarative non procedural execution language for example SQL. Thus the cost of calculating administrations that are due is constant and does not grow over the duration of the order for medical care. Further the cost of the calculation is exceedingly small and may be easily amortized over a large data set. The constant and small calculation cost allows a dynamic on the fly real time determination of when medical care administrations are due at a time when a nurse is ready to administer the order to a patient. Hence determinations of when medical care administrations are due are made with the up to date data at a time when they are needed rather than ahead of time. This allows users of the medical care administration system to change parameters that affect an administration of an order for example transferring a patient to another room or wing rescheduling of a medical care administration changing a prescribed time for medical care etc. without worry of effecting the quality of medical care. The dynamic real time determinations of when medical care administrations are due automatically accommodates all changes in parameters and is superior to other systems that precalculate administration schedules that may become unreliable with subsequent changes in parameters.

At this point a medical care order originated by a physician or nurse at the medical care facility has been faxed to and processed by the pharmacy sent to the application server for storage in the database accepted by a nurse at the medical care facility identified as an active order in the database and sent to the cart computer . The cart computer continuously executes calculations as described above for all accepted but unadministered orders in the medical care facility to identify which orders are due for administration. The cart and cart computer are used by a nurse or other care giver to pass medications or treatments. The updating of the EAR during a med pass is highly automated and one feature of the medical care administration system is to facilitate the med pass while updating the eMAR. In other words the updating of the EAR should not create extra work for the nurse but instead should make the med pass easier for the nurse. Therefore as shown in the cart computer has a display screen for example a touch screen a tablet or comparable screen. The touch screen allows a nurse to enter selections by simply touching the screen. In some applications an input keyboard and or a mouse may be provided for use depending on a nurse s comfort level with a particular input device. Further the display screens are organized to lead a nurse through a medication administration or pass process that is very similar to an existing paper MAR system with which a nurse is very familiar. The difference is with the medical care administration system there is no paper or paper record to be maintained.

Whether the cart is a medications cart or a treatment cart the cart computer executes an application program that is utilized to electronically chart administrations of medications treatments other orders such as blood pressure and lab work and follow ups such as the effectiveness as a PRN medication or patch removal. Referring to the display screen provides a log in screen display in which the nurse can enter a user name in window area and a pin number in window area utilizing a key board not shown . Alternatively the nurse may choose to touch the select user button display and as shown in a screen display displays a listing of potential users. The nurse may select a user name by touching one of the display buttons identifying the potential users. Other names can be displayed by touching the up and down cursor key displays . Upon touching one of the user button displays a screen display as shown in provides number key displays that may be touched to enter a pin number in the area . Thereafter the nurse selects or touches one of the button displays which identify particular unit locations within the medical care facility . Upon a unit location being selected the area of the screen is replaced by a screen display shown in . The screen area now presents button displays identifying carts available for use. Cursor displays may be touched to scroll through a listing of the available carts. Each cart has a label with its identification and a particular cart is chosen for use by touching a button display corresponding to that cart s identification label. The log in process is now complete. It should be noted that portions of the above log in process may also be achieved by utilizing a personal identity card that stores data utilizing a magnetic data strip a radio frequency identification device or other comparable storage medium.

As previously described the cart computer iteratively executes the administrations due calculations on all of the orders in the medical care facility and therefore the cart computer can accurately identify at any time which orders are currently due for administration. Upon completion of the log in process described above the cart computer then provides the screen display shown in which provides graphical displays of all of the orders currently due for administration. A main screen display area contains a photo identity a name and a room and bed location of all persons for whom orders are currently due. The order in which such persons are displayed may be organized differently for different applications. For example they may be displayed in room number order which may be most convenient if a nurse is assigned to a particular unit in the medical care facility. They may also be displayed alphabetically by last name or they may be displayed with the administrations having the oldest administration start intervals displayed first. In some applications the display order of objects in the display area may be selectable by the nurse.

A left hand screen display area provides further information as to the number of medications due the number of treatments due the number of other administrations due and the number of follow ups in respective screen areas . In addition each type of order has a graphical tag or icon for example an M tag for medications due a T tag for treatments due an O tag for other administration and an F tag for follow ups due. Further those tags are associated with the persons identified in the display area to clarify the type of administration due for each person. The screen display area has a display line and associated tag that identifies those persons to whom medical care is currently being administered by another nurse. There are also persons identified in the display area that have none of the tags associated with them and therefore no administrations are currently due for them. However such persons may be selected for the administration of PRN medications. The screen area also contains a line display in which the number of orders awaiting approval at the nurses station computer is identified. The screen area further includes a log out button display a quick help button display a hide screen button display . Display area provides a current time date and identity of the nurse currently logged into the cart computer . In addition an indicator light display stays illuminated as long as the cart computer is online with required wireless networks. The light display goes out when the cart computer loses its connection with the application server .

After reviewing the screen display of the nurse touches a picture of a particular resident to whom an order is to be administered for example the picture . Referring to a profile screen display for that person is then presented by the cart computer . The screen display is divided into an orders due display area an orders selected display area a ready for charting display area a side bar display area and a top bar display area . The top bar display area contains tabs identifying the types of administrations due for example a medication tab a PRN medication tab a treatment tab an other orders tab and a follow up tab . Each of those tabs has a respective tag as well as a display of the number of administrations due with each tab for example as shown at of the medications tab . When it first appears the resident profile screen display defaults to the medications due tab and all of the medications due for this person are listed in the orders due area display . Each medication order due is identified in its own button display that contains an identity of the medication a prescribed administration time and a description of the medication .

The side bar display area contains a photo identity the person s name and a room and bed location . A resident details button display may be used to obtain demographic information about the person similar to that contained on a face sheet of a paper chart. The side bar display area further has an all residents button display that may be used to return to the screen display of . Displays and are substantially identical to the similarly numbered displays described with respect to .

Each medication order touch button includes an info button display and a select button display . If a nurse is new or unfamiliar with the resident and or the resident s medical care any of the info button displays may be touched to get further information about a particular medication to be administered. For example if an info button display for ARICEPT is touched a screen display as shown in is presented providing further details about the ARICEPT medication order and its prescribed administration. This screen has a top bar display area that identifies the ordered medication and an adjacent display area that identifies the prescription number the physician and order date A middle display area displays an administration start date a further description of the ordered medication a prescribed administration time and a prescribed frequency of administration . The screen display has another display area containing a history button display for displaying an order administration history a refill button display for sending an electronic fax to the pharmacy requesting an order refill and a discontinue button display for sending an electronic fax to the pharmacy requesting that an order be discontinued. The screen display further has a close window button display that when touched returns the user to the screen display shown in .

A select button display may be touched to select the ARICEPT medication order identified in . Upon touching the select touch button as shown in a screen display is presented that is similar to the screen display of except that in this screen display a button display for ARICEPT now appears in the orders selected display area and has been dropped from the orders due display area . In addition the button display contains additional information further describing ARICEPT and its administration schedule. In an alternative embodiment a nurse may use a bar code reader to read a bar code on one or more of the medications being administered. The cart computer decodes the read bar codes selects a corresponding medication from the orders due display area and moves the selected order to the orders selected display area .

In some situations a nurse may be familiar with some of the medication orders identified in the orders due screen display area of . For example if the nurse is familiar with the administration of ARTIFICIAL for this resident the nurse may simply touch the select button display within the ARTIFICIAL display button and the screen display of is presented. Again the selected ARTIFICIAL medication order has been moved from the orders due display area to the orders selected display area and the button display includes additional information further describing ARTIFICIAL and its administration.

Referring back to if a nurse if very familiar with the resident s medical care and administrations have not changed. Upon reviewing the orders displayed in the orders due display area the nurse may choose to touch the 0 button display which results in a screen display as shown in . All of the medication orders that were previously displayed in the orders due display area are now displayed in the orders selected display area with additional information about the medication due and it s administration schedule. In this display the orders accepted display area has expanded to present all the accepted orders and the orders due display area has shrunk.

At this point the nurse may observe that certain administrations require additional activities. For example the insulin button display has tags along a right hand side of the button display . Each of those tags identifies an additional activity that is required with an injection administration of insulin for example charting of a blood sugar level insulin units given and an administration site. However other button displays for example the ARTIFICIAL button display do not have associated tags and can be administered without preforming other activities. Thus a nurse may choose to administer those medications first. Those medications are removed from the medication cart and administered to the resident. When the administrations are complete the nurse returns to the medication cart and touches the button displays associated with those administered medications. As shown in the screen display of the selected administered medications no longer appear in the orders selected display area but are now displayed in the ready for charting display area .

The medication button displays remaining in the orders selected display area all require the charting of additional activities. For example as discussed earlier upon an administration of insulin a nurse must chart a blood sugar level a number of insulin units given and a site of the injection. Further the insulin button display cannot not be moved from the orders selected display area to the ready for charting display area until charting of the additional activities have been completed. To enter the information relating to the additional activities the insulin button display is touched and a screen display is presented as shown in . The screen display has a first display area that provides information similar to that as shown in the screen display of which is a complete identification of the medical order and its administration schedule. Below that a screen display area permits selection of a blood sugar level. Button displays may be selected to indicate that the sugar level is too low or too high respectively to be measured. Button displays and may be touched to move a pointer along a scale until the pointer points to a measured blood sugar level. Alternatively a button display may be touched to display a numeric keypad permitting a measured blood sugar level to be entered numerically. Further button displays and may be used to enter whether the blood sugar level is not or is respectively entered.

Upon selecting the done button display a screen display shown in is presented. In this screen display the area displays the blood sugar level entered by the nurse and the display area has expanded to permit the entry of a number of insulin units administered. Again button displays may be touched to move a pointer with respect to a scale until it is pointing to a number equal to the insulin units administered. Alternatively a button display may be selected to display a numeric key pad permitting the insulin units administered to be entered numerically. In addition button displays and may be used to indicate whether or not this activity is been completed. Upon selecting the done button display a screen display shown in is presented. In screen display the display area has been reduced and displays the insulin units administered and display has expanded to provide anatomical selections for entering a site for administration of the insulin. A button display may be selected to provide additional options for selecting a site of administration.

In addition an abdomen button display may be touched to provide a screen display as shown in in which various buttons displays relate to left or right sides of upper and lower portions of the abdomen. Upon selecting one of those button displays the screen display of is presented. In some applications upon selecting a particular administration site an area representing that site may appear within a patient outline thereby providing a visual representation of the site of administration selected. Once a site is selected a button display may be used to unselect the site. Further button display may be touched to provide additional notes relating to the administration of the insulin. Also button displays and may be selected depending on whether a site of administration selection is completed. Upon selecting a done button display the screen display is presented as shown in in which the entries for blood sugar insulin units administered and the administration site are displayed and checked as being done.

The given button display may be touched to produce the display screen shown in and as shown at the insulin order is now listed in the ready for charting display area . In a manner similar to that described with respect to insulin the nurse performs the other activities required for charting of the medication orders remaining in the orders selected display area . After all activities for those remaining medication orders are completed all of the ordered medications will then be listed in the ready for charting display area and they are ready to be electronically charted.

At this time the nurse may review all of the data contained in the ready for charting display area for accuracy. If any inaccuracy is found the nurse simply touches the screen anywhere in the display area and a screen display shown in is presented. Any medical order can be removed from the ready to chart display area by selecting a respective remove button display for example a remove button display associated with insulin. After touching the remove button display and the close button display screen display shown in is presented. In that screen display the medical order for insulin has been removed from the ready for charting display area and has been returned to the orders selected display area . In a manner as previous described the additional activities associated with the administration of insulin can be reviewed and the entered values revised so that they are correct. Insulin can then again be selected as given so that it is again listed in the ready to chart display area as shown in .

After all medications have been administered and all additional activities completed a chart it button display may then be touched and all of the data associated with the medication orders in the ready to chart display area are logged to an electronic record of the eMAR that is stored in the database . The nurse is then returned to an all residents screen display as shown by in . At this point the M tag for medications due that was associated with this resident photo in no longer appears with the resident photo in in .

As shown in other orders for treatments other orders and follow ups are also due for patient in resident photo . The nurse may choose to administer ones of those orders due depending on what is available on the medications cart that is being used. For example the nurse could probably administer PRN medications if prescribed as shown in the screen display of . Otherwise a nurse using a treatment cart will have to administer the treatment other and followup orders due. In a manner as described above the nurse may select medications due for other residents. In a manner similar to that previously described other administrations are first selected at which time they automatically move to the selected area . Thereafter the administrations are given and recorded using screens similar to that shown in . After the other administrations are marked as given they are moved to the ready for charting area where they can be reviewed prior to the charted touch button being selected which creates a permanent electronic chart of the other administration. Such other charting activities include but not limited to blood pressure pulse rate blood oxygen level respiration weight pain assessment intervention lung sounds PRN administration PRN follow up oral supplements and other activities required for medical care.

Referring to a feature of the invention is that activity tags associated with the insulin order touch button are automatically generated within the interface adaptor ETL rules shown in . By requiring a pharmacy to utilize XML and data definitions an example of which is shown and described with respect to an order such as an insulin injection administration can be readily searched for and identified. Further prescribed activities associated with that administration such as recording the blood sugar level insulin units administered and site may also be retrieved and stored. Those administration activities can then be automatically applied to the insulin order touch button as respective tags by the cart computer in the process of creating the screen display of . Alternatively the tags may be selected by a nurse at the nurses station computer in the process of reviewing and accepting the electronic insulin medication order when received from the pharmacy.

The medical care administration system has a further capability of handling nonroutine after hours or emergency medication orders. Situations may arise where a resident requires a medication and there is no time to process the medication order through the pharmacy or the pharmacy may be closed. Referring to in those situations the nurses station computer has an optional order entry capability that may be utilized by a nurse. For example a new resident may be admitted and entered into the system when the pharmacy is closed. To do that a nurse logs into the nurses station computer and a screen display of is produced. The nurse may then select a residents button display and a screen display of is produced. The nurse then selects a new quick admit button display and the nurses station computer provides screen window display shown in . The nurse then uses a keyboard with the nurses station computer to enter the new resident s name physician and room and bed location and selects the save and admit button display . A revised residents screen display of shows a display of the temporarily resident record just saved. The nurses station computer may be used to enter other data and or a photograph. However the resident record is a temporary one and will be replaced when the pharmacy is open and a real resident account is created within the pharmacy. Upon being saved with the button display the temporary resident record is immediately transmitted to the application computer which enters it into the database pushes it down to the cart computer and initiates an electronic facsimile of the temporary admission to the pharmacy .

If it is desired to enter an new initial medical care order for the temporarily admitted resident the nurse selects the display and a window display as shown in is produced. The appropriate new initial med order button display or the new initial non med order button display may be selected. If the new initial med order button display is selected a screen window display as shown in is provided and the medication name dosage and administration instructions may be entered using the keyboard. Upon selecting the continue button display a screen display as shown in is presented which is similar to screen display of and allows the nurse to enter other information relating to the medication and its administration. When finished the nurse selects the accept order button display and a screen window display of is presented in association with the temporarily admitted resident. The dashed line around the medication name indicates that it is a temporary order. Upon being accepted the temporary order data is sent from the nurses station computer to the application server stored in the database and transmitted to the cart computer . All temporary medication orders are also sent by electronic facsimile to the pharmacy . Temporary nonmedication orders are only sent to the pharmacy if the pharmacy practice is to maintain them for record keeping purposes.

Subsequently a physician may review the temporary medication order and issue a written order that is the same or different and the written order is processed as earlier described herein. When the written order is subsequently accepted at the nurses station computer as described with respect to it replaces the temporary order in the displays of the nurses station computer and the cart computer . Administration of a temporary medication or nonmedication order at the cart computer is substantially identical to the previously described administration and charting processes. Thus the medical care administration system has the capability of sending medical care orders to a pharmacy either by faxing a written order from a physician in accordance with accepted practices or electronically creating an order at the nurses station computer that is then faxed to the pharmacy by the application server .

The medical care administration system maintains data in the database that may be used to print any reports that may required. For example referring to upon selecting a report button display further screen displays are provided that permit a user to print a late charting report a login logout report a medication charting report by nurse a medication charting summary report a medication charting summary five minute rollup report and a missed charting report. Further referring to upon selecting one of the residents a residents detail screen display is provided as shown in . By selecting the resident MAR button display a medical administration report may be printed for the resident for any month selected by the user. Similarly the resident POS button display may be selected to print a physician order sheet for the resident. In addition referring to a unit POS button display may be selected if it is desired to print a physician order sheet for all of the residents in a unit shown on the screen display . Similarly a unit MAR button display may be used to print a medication administration report for all of the residents in the unit.

An advantage of the medical care administration system described herein is that it very accurately and reliably identifies all medical care orders that are due for administration. Further the system has a very high dynamic response to changes to the medical care order regardless of the origin of the changes. A further advantage is that large processing power and lead times are not required in order to calculate and recalculate when administrations are due. Therefore at different times or the same times the cart computer nurses station computer and application server may all independently perform the administrations due calculations for all of the medical care orders in the medical care facility . As described the cart computers calculate when administrations are due to present a care giver current information for an administration of a medical care order. If an administration is late it may be presented on the cart computer screen as a late administration. The nurses s station computer may also independently calculate when administrations are due to identify administrations that are late. Those late administrations are identified on a late activity monitor so that supervisors can react appropriately. Thus the results of the calculations by the nurses station computer are used locally in the medical care facility and are not transferred to the application server .

The application server may also independently calculate when administrations due in order to generate paper charts that may be used for charting in special circumstances for example during an extended power failure in the geographic area of the medical care facility. The application server may also calculate when administrations due within various time periods in order to optimize data distribution. The memory available in different cart computers may vary significantly and the application server should download only that data that respective cart computes can properly store and process.

The transfer of data between the database and the cart computer via the application server may be accomplished using known techniques. For example referring to in one exemplary embodiment the database server application server and cart computer have respective core operating systems . The application server and cart computer have respectively a data synchronization server and data synchronization client processor . Within the data synchronization server a persistence subsystem has a server cache and a object relational mapping subsystem . The object relational mapping subsystem may be implemented using a high performance object relational persistence and query service for example HIBERNATE software that is commercially available from Red Hat Americas of Raleigh N.C. The data synchronization client processor has a client cache . An interface with the database is provided by Java Database Connectivity JDBC application programming interface that is a commercially available standard SQL database access interface.

The data synchronization server and data synchronization client are operative to provide a synchronization of data between the server cache and the client cache . Thus the server cache and client cache should always contain substantially current and identical data. However data in the database may change based on inputs from the pharmacy various cart computers and or the nurses station computer which affects the administrations due calculations. In that situation the data synchronization server identifies that changed data and causes the changed data to be moved to the server cache after which it is immediately transferred to the client cache . Thus the changed data is quickly made available to the cart computer and its administrations due calculations. In other situations the charting of administrations with the cart computer also generates new data that affects the administrations due calculations and should be input to the database . Therefore the data synchronization client is effective to quickly transfer that new data from the client cache to the server cache and the data synchronization server is operative to immediately transfer the new data into the database . The changed data is then immediately pushed back out to the cart computers and nurses station computers .

By maintaining the data in the server and client caches synchronized the cart computer is capable of executing the administrations due calculations with current data even if there is a loss of connectivity with one or more of the wireless networks . In a known manner the data synchronization server and data synchronization client are operative to detect the loss of connectivity keep track of what data was in their respective caches when the loss connectivity occurred and what data in their respective caches changed during the loss of connectivity. Further when connectivity is again established the data synchronization server and data synchronization client are operative to resync their respective caches so that current data is contained in the database and available to the cart computer for performing the administrations due calculations. The transfer of data between the relational database and the nurses station computer is substantially identical to that described with respect to cart computer . The nurses station computer also has a data synchronization client and client cache substantially similar respectively to the data synchronization client and client cache in the cart computer .

While the present invention has been illustrated by the description of an exemplary embodiment thereof and while the embodiment has been described in considerable detail it is not intended to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. For example referring to the medical care administration system described herein may be used with only one medical care facility that has only one nurses station computer and only one cart computer and orders from only one pharmacy . Further only one application server and only one database server and their respective interfaces may be used with a database . In different exemplary embodiments the application server and its interfaces the database server and its interfaces and the database may be have different geographic locations with respect to the medical care facility and pharmacy . In one embodiment they may be located at a common location in a data center . In some embodiments the data center may be geographically remote from the medical care facility and the pharmacy . In other embodiments the data center may be geographically near the medical care facility or the pharmacy . In still further embodiments pharmacy the medical care facility and data center may have a geographically common location.

In yet other embodiments the medical care administration system may be used with multiple pharmacies and or multiple medical care facilities that have multiple nurses station computers and multiple cart computers . Further the data center may have multiple application servers multiple database servers with respective multiple interfaces . In such embodiments containing multiple components the medical care administration system operates substantially similarly to that described herein with respect a system having only one of each component. In multiple component systems an application server database servers and their respective interfaces may be dedicated to a single medical care facility . However the administrations due calculations may be run independently by a grid of all of the cart computers and all of the nurses station computers as well as the application server . Further new or changed data may result from any one of the cart computer calculations or an input from any of the nurses station computers and the application server must keep track of the data changes the source of the data changes and decide how to update the database. In different embodiments different known algorithms and techniques may be used to decide what data to accept and store in the database for example a pessimistic locking algorithm an optimistic locking algorithm or other comparable algorithm.

The invention in its broader aspects is therefore not limited to the specific details representative apparatus and methods and illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departing from the scope or spirit of Applicants general inventive concept.

