---

title: Selecting data in a mobile information system
abstract: Systems and methods, including computer software products, can be implemented for selecting data on a mobile device on which multiple channels are defined. Each channel can be adapted to receive a predetermined type of content for access on the mobile device. Multiple languages may also be defined on the device, and multiple data sets for at least one of the channels are received, wherein each data set is configured for presentation in a different one of the languages. One of the data sets may be selected based on a current location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08041372&OS=08041372&RS=08041372
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08041372
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071126
---
The present disclosure relates to selecting data in computer systems in general and more specifically relates to selecting data in mobile information systems. In a mobile information system subscribers may register with a wireless service provider to receive various types of content from the service provider on their mobile devices. The subscriber may have capabilities in more than one language. The subscriber s mobile device may include a resident interactive multimedia application environment that includes capabilities for displaying graphics video animation audio and the like. Examples of such interactive multimedia application environments are the different versions of the Adobe Flash based platform. Many different types of content are provided to mobile devices equipped with such application environments.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a method that includes defining multiple channels on a mobile device. Each channel may be adapted to receive a predetermined type of content for access on the mobile device. Multiple languages may also be defined. Multiple data sets for at least one of the channels are received and each data set is configured for presentation in a different one of the languages. One of the data sets is selected based on a current location. Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

In another general aspect a system includes one or more databases operable to store contents for multiple available channels. The content may include multiple data sets for delivery to mobile devices based on a registration of each mobile device to receive updates for one or more channels. One or more servers are adapted to receive an identification of a multiple languages associated with a particular mobile device and automatically identify data sets stored on the database. Each identified data set is configured for presentation in a different one of the languages. The identified data sets may be automatically delivered to the particular mobile device based on the registration of the particular mobile device to receive content for one or more channels.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. Each of the multiple languages can be associated with one or more locations. One of the data sets is selected based on the current location by selecting the data set configured for presentation in the language associated with the current location. A new current location can be identified and a different one of the data sets can be selected based on the new current location. One or more of the data sets can be further configured for the mobile device based on at least one characteristic of the mobile device. The data sets can be received from a server and the server can include one or more data sets configured to be presented in a language other than the multiple languages. The current location can be a geographic location of the mobile device and the geographic location can be automatically identified by a wireless global information system or by information received at the mobile device from a wireless network. One or more of the data sets can include a reference to a shared library and the shared library can include data configured for presentation in one or more of the languages. At least one of the data sets can be presented by executing the data set using a media player on the mobile device.

Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. Content for each channel may be available in multiple languages and a mobile device may automatically select content configured for presentation in a particular language based on the current location of the mobile device. The selection may be based on an association of the particular language with the current location. Content configured for presentation in each of a large number of languages may be automatically generated and readily available to a user on a server but only the most relevant subset of that content may be stored on the limited memory available on an individual mobile device. The most relevant subset may be the content configured for presentation in a subset of languages identified by the user. By storing on the mobile device content configured for presentation in each of the user identified languages the user may efficiently access content configured for presentation in any one of a set of preferred languages and the mobile device may efficiently select content based on a current location.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

When a computer system such as a mobile information system is configured to provide content to a user device such as a mobile device the computer system may implement data selection to access content in an appropriate language. In a mobile information system subscribers may register with a wireless service provider to receive various types of content from the service provider on their mobile devices. Third party content providers may also register or contract with the wireless service provider to provide various types of content to subscribers over a network such as the Internet via the service provider. The subscriber s mobile device may include a resident interactive multimedia application environment that includes capabilities for displaying graphics video animation audio and the like. Examples of such interactive multimedia application environments are the different versions of the Adobe Flash based platform. Content provided to mobile devices equipped with such application environments are sometimes delivered in executable file formats such as the precisely described SWF small web format binary vector graphics format. SWF provides a compact TAG based easily extendible format that supports streaming bitmap and vector graphics and scripting. Content may include other data or files such as a feature film an executable software update or a software extension.

In some implementations wireless service providers deliver content to the mobile devices of their subscribers in the form of information channels. Each information channel may originate with the wireless service provider or may originate with third party content providers. When a subscriber subscribes to a particular information channel the wireless service provider delivers content associated with that information channel to the subscriber s mobile device. The content may be delivered as a channel feed to a file system i.e. a feed store located on the mobile device. The feed store may be logically divided into separate compartments or memory allocations with each channel assigned its own compartment on a static or dynamic basis. Periodically the wireless service provider may deliver channel content updates to the mobile device. The updates may be provided according to a predetermined schedule in response to a request from the mobile device in response to an availability of updates at the content provider in response to an expiration or consumption e.g. viewing of content previously delivered to the mobile device or in some other way. Because the channel content is stored locally on the mobile device and frequently updated the subscriber is usually able to access the channel without having to wait for channel content or content updates to be delivered over the network. The channel content may be automatically delivered to the mobile device in the background i.e. without a specific user request and or while the mobile device is otherwise idle or being used to view other channels or perform other operations .

For example a wireless service provider may offer several different information channels to its subscribers. Some information channels may be freely available to all subscribers while other information channels may require premium subscriber status. The content of some information channels may originate with the wireless service provider. The content of other information channels may originate with third parties that have registered with the service provider. The content of still other information channels may originate with other sources. The offered information channels may include a premium news channel. If a subscriber has subscribed to the premium news channel then the wireless service provider may establish a channel feed to periodically or sporadically deliver content from the premium news channel to the feed store located on the subscriber s mobile device. When the subscriber accesses the premium news channel processes on the mobile device retrieve the content from the feed store. Even if the subscriber rarely or even never accesses the premium news channel the channel feed may provide for regular updates of channel content in the feed store based for example on an expiration of content and or an availability of new content.

In some implementations content for a channel may be available in multiple languages and the mobile device may select content configured for presentation in a particular language based on the current location of the device. The server may generate retrieve or otherwise aggregate content configured for presentation in a large number e.g. 50 of languages e.g. Cantonese French German English Japanese etc. . In some implementations only the content configured for presentation in a subset of languages may be received by a particular mobile device. For example if a user identifies the languages French and German that user s mobile device may receive content in both French and German. In this manner content configured for presentation in all of the large number e.g. 50 of languages may be readily available to a user but only the most relevant subset of that content may be stored on a particular user s mobile device. For example the most relevant subset may be the content configured for presentation in the languages identified by the user. Moreover by storing locally on the mobile device content configured for presentation in the languages identified by the mobile device user the user may efficiently access content configured for presentation in any one of a user preferred set of languages i.e. without receiving further updates from a server .

This ability to select particular languages for content on a mobile device may be useful if a user desires content to be presented in different languages depending on the user s current location. A user may identify a plurality of languages and each identified language may be associated with one or more locations. The mobile device may select content that is configured for presentation in the language associated with a current location of the mobile device. For example if a user identifies the languages French and German the mobile device may receive News channel content configured for presentation in French and the same News channel content configured for presentation in German. When the user is in a country associated with German such as Germany the mobile device may select the News channel content configured for presentation in German. However when the user enters a country associated with French such as France the mobile device may select the News channel content configured for presentation in French. This selection of particular languages may be based on information transmitted to the device from the wireless telephone or other network in the area. The user may associate a language with one or more locations or a language may be automatically associated with one or more languages. Additionally when the mobile device is in a location that is not associated with a particular language the mobile device may select content configured for presentation in a default language.

Channel content may be in the form of text images vector graphics bitmaps frame based animation video or in any other format supported by the mobile information system and may include executable scripts or other sequences of instructions. Depending on the format of the channel content an application running on the mobile device such as a media player or other type of media player component may be invoked to run the script execute the instructions or otherwise display the content. One example of such a mobile information system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 791 298 filed Mar. 1 2004 and entitled MOBILE RICH MEDIA INFORMATION SYSTEMS the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Local data may define client capabilities that are specific to the mobile device . Client capabilities may specify some or all of the information necessary to generate or identify content that is specifically configured for the mobile device and for the preferences of the mobile device user. For example client capabilities may specify a screen size of 2.5 inches and the languages French and German. Client capabilities may be received by server with a request for updates over wireless network or client capabilities may be received by server over internet or stored locally at server . For example based on the received client capabilities server may identify content configured for presentation in French on a 2.5 inch screen and content configured for presentation in German on a 2.5 inch screen. Server may send the identified content to client .

Mobile device may also be configured to store shared libraries . Generally a shared library may include resources such as data code programs subprograms or other information that may be accessed by multiple applications. Shared libraries may include for example shared runtime libraries. Shared libraries may include static or dynamic link libraries or SWF files. Shared libraries may include a plurality of shared runtime libraries each of which defines text images and other data configured for presentation in a particular language or in multiple languages. Channel content such as an application may include a link to a specific shared library . For example channel content configured to display strings or some other set of resources e.g. images for presentation may include a link or pointer to a shared runtime library. Content may be dynamically selected from the shared runtime library based on the language to be used in a particular locale. Thus resources may be selected dynamically for presenting particular channel content according to the current location of a mobile device. In this manner one set of libraries for use in presenting the channel content may be used when the device dynamically determines that content is to be presented in English and a different set of libraries may be used when the device dynamically determines that content is to be presented in French. Shared libraries may be stored locally with local data or feed store or they may be received and or updated from server .

At a high level server system may receive information from content providers organize the retrieved information along with some or all of any associated memory allocations into individual information channel feeds and deliver the information channel feeds to client . Client may then store the information channel feeds in feed store . A feed may include a plurality of data sets where each data set is a subset of content for a single information channel. Each of the data sets included in a feed may be configured to present the channel content in a different language. For example channel B content may include channel B content in German English and French as illustrated. The particular languages for which the data sets included in channel content are configured may be based on languages identified by the user in local data e.g. in preferences and or in client capabilities. However a data set configured for presentation in some of the identified languages may not be available for all channels. For example channel C content includes channel C content in German and English but not French. In addition to the dynamic channel feeds received from server system feed store may also contain one or more static feeds . Static feed content and associated permissions may be preloaded on mobile device instead of delivered by server system . In addition to providing information channel feeds may also be used to provide services such as a home page user interface calendar user interface and services or other user interfaces or specialized application services. From a security standpoint there may be little or no difference between static feeds and dynamic feeds or between information channels and service channels.

When a subscriber attempts to access a particular information channel for example channel B client may retrieve channel B content a subset of channel B content e.g. a subset that is a data set configured for presentation in a particular language and or channel B metadata from feed store . Client may select a particular data set from channel B content based on a current location. Depending on the format of channel B content client may provide a subset of content to media player component . If content configured for presentation in the language associated with the current location is not available client may provide content configured for presentation in a different language. In some implementations each data set included in channel B content is a SWF file and media player component is an Adobe Flash based media player component that provides media player functionality. Client and media player component may form two parts of a single virtual machine running on mobile device . The virtual machine may run on a device platform . Client and media player component may then be programmed to run on the virtual machine .

In some implementations the functionality of media player component may be extended. Such an extension may be used to expand the functionality of media player component such as by providing support for additional commands or services. For example a service provider may wish to provide channel content that displays or otherwise accesses or manipulates data from local data such as a call log. The service provider may develop a custom command or instruction that can be provided in the channel feed and stored in feed store . Such a command may be unrecognized by unextended media player component and client . The service provider may then install a custom extension on mobile device that recognizes and performs the custom command or instruction effectively increasing the number of commands or instructions recognized by media player component . The extension may be implemented through an application programming interface API supported by the client which defines certain types of messages that can be passed between the client and the extension. In another example a third party content provider may develop a custom command or instruction to perform some other activity. An extension may be a software module that is distributed preinstalled on mobile device or downloaded to mobile device for example over wireless network . Media player component may access shared libraries for example according to links included in channel content. Media player component may retrieve from shared libraries text images and or other types of data that are specifically configured for presentation in a specific language and or in a specific format or style. Which libraries are selected may depend on the specific language and or the specific format or style that is dynamically selected according to current location.

Client provides a framework for displaying and managing content received on mobile device including content received from server system . Client may be responsible for the caching of received content for communication with server system and for various other tasks. Client may manage subscriber input and memory devices and . In addition client may manage security features that protect the privacy of subscribers and content and prevent unauthorized parties from interfering with the service. In some implementations client is distributed preinstalled on mobile device while in other implementations client or an update to client is downloaded to mobile device for example over wireless network .

Client may access media player component to render a user interface and content and to perform scripting operations. In some implementations media player component is a media player that supports vector graphics bitmaps and frame based animation as well as text input and dynamic text. Media player component may be able to process files such as SWF files in which content providers use native device fonts or embed arbitrary fonts. Media player component may also support scripting integration with mobile device capabilities including keypad navigation button presses notification messaging and media playback as well as integration with general mobile device operating system functionality. This enables client to be integrated with other mobile device applications and functionalities. Scripting may be accomplished with ActionScript or any other suitable scripting language supported by media player component . Client may select a particular data set included in channel content based on a current location or based on a particular language associated with a current language. Client may also identify a new current location and select a different data set e.g. included in the same channel content based on the new current location. Client may send an identification of client capabilities to server .

Client may be configured to interact with mobile device s underlying features and applications through a set of scriptable commands. In some implementations client may interact with native functions of the mobile device by interfacing with a platform of the mobile device . Such commands may enable channel content to retrieve and set subscriber preferences provide time and date information from the host environment or launch external applications such as a browser or media player. In some implementations upon launching an external application the subscriber is instantly transferred to that application. Client may maintain the state of the user interface so that the subscriber can return to the same screen of client from which the external application was launched creating a perception of an integrated experience.

Mobile device may have a fully customizable user interface design through feed store that consists of individual Flash elements i.e. SWF files independent of client s core functionality. In some implementations the SWF files enable subscribers to use mobile device s soft keys to control navigation and client s meta functions such as setting preferences. Feed store may be updated over wireless network and may use an asynchronous communication protocol that updates all content through a background delivery mechanism that is transparent to subscribers. This enables subscribers to continue browsing one information channel for example channel B while a different information channel is updated in the background. Subscribers can also change their preferences when offline the transaction based client server protocol may ensure that such requests will be fulfilled the next time client connects to server system . Communications between client and server system may be facilitated through libraries native to platform . Platform represents the device dependent operating system running on mobile device . Example implementations of platform are BREW OS Symbian OS BlackBerry OS Windows Mobile OS Palm OS Linux Windows XP Mac OS and the like.

When running in background mode client may minimize battery usage while periodically receiving updates from server system . In some implementations subscribers can choose between a number of battery conserving update options for example always update update only when battery strength is above a certain level and never update. If supported by platform different applications may be running simultaneously. In such cases client may minimize its use of memory resources when other applications are active. For example client may have a hibernate mode in which it consumes only a fraction of its normal operating memory. Client may also be configured to limit the number of information channels to which a subscriber may subscribe. When this limit is reached client may require a subscriber to remove an information channel before a new information channel may be added. Client may also support Short Message Service SMS signaling allowing server system to awaken client and initiate an immediate content update in the case of important events such as breaking news or an immediate retraction of inappropriate content.

Server system may include clusters of feed servers and data source servers as well as report server . Report server may allow service providers to monitor server activities and network traffic and may be integrated with other enterprise reporting solutions. The client server architecture of system may use clustering technology to help ensure performance reliability and scalability while minimizing deployment complexities through a flexible integration framework. Server system may aggregate content from external content providers received over the Internet and organize the content into channel content feeds. Server system may filter content feeds based on user preferences mobile device types and access controls. Server system may deliver the content feeds to client over wireless network . Data source servers may retrieve normalize and aggregate content from the web servers of content providers may transform various formats of retrieved content for example into a common XML format and may pass the content on to feed servers for delivery to client . Retrievals may be scheduled at predetermined intervals at which times only differential updates may be collected. Data source servers may be configured to handle content feeds in various formats e.g. RSS Atom XML etc. . Content feeds may support embedded content types including for example text images and SWF files.

Server may include content configured for multiple client capabilities. Server may generate retrieve or otherwise aggregate many different data sets for the same channel content where each data set is configured differently. For example each data set may be configured for presentation in a specific language on a specific screen size and using a specific software. Server may include content configured for every combination of client capabilities or server may only include content configured for a subset of client capabilities. For example server may include content configured for a subset of the most frequently occurring client capabilities.

Using system service providers may be able to provide targeted data service offerings to subscribers. Service providers may be able to promote specific content bundles to certain segments such as business people teens casual users and others. Service providers may be able to make specific content bundles available to all subscribers in for example a channel guide allowing subscribers to select specific content bundles. To increase network efficiency server system may operate in an occasionally connected data model and may use a communication protocol that enables differential updates minimizing unnecessary exchanges of data between server system and client . For example in the case of a weather channel only an update to the temperature may be required while all other content such as images video or forecasts remains the same.

Server system may be equipped with an administrator providing the functionality required to manage the servers including channel administration subscriber administration and system management. Using administrator service providers can check for example the amount of network traffic each channel generates deactivate poorly performing channels and dynamically provision modify or remove channels among other tasks. Administrator may be implemented as automated processes and may also provide an interface for non automated i.e. human initiated or controlled processes. To the extent administrator is implemented as one or more partially or fully automated processes administrator may be incorporated into the server . In some implementations administrator may select content to send client based on languages and or client capabilities identified for the particular mobile device .

When client receives a content update from server system via the channel feed client stores both the channel content and the metadata associated with the content in feed store . For example when client receives a content update for Channel B client updates Channel B feed in feed store . Both Channel B content and the associated Channel B metadata are stored. Channel B feed may be updated multiple times before a subscriber ever accesses it. When a subscriber accesses Channel B through the mobile device user interface client may retrieve Channel B content e.g. a SWF file and Channel B metadata and provide both to media player component e.g. a media player .

At a high level diagram includes tables and and selection criteria and . A table in diagram illustrates an organization of data sets. A selection criteria in diagram illustrates a relationship among data sets in different tables. Table represents an example organization of data typically stored in feed server of server . On the left side of table a plurality of profiles are specified according to three languages German English and French and two screen sizes 2.5 inches and 2.75 inches . Each of the six combinations of language and screen size may correspond to a particular client capability. Typically a client capability will include more information and table is intended as a simplified example. Each column on the right side of table represents a particular information channel. Each file icon represents a data set configured for presenting the channel content specified by the column according to client capabilities specified by the row . Some cells do not include a file icon which indicates that channel content is not available for the client capabilities specified in that row. For example the channel Sports is available for both screen sizes in German and French but not English.

Selection criteria represents functionality typically attributable to administrator of server . Selection criteria indicates that certain data sets are selected from table based on client capabilities. The selected data sets would typically be sent to client via wireless network and stored in feed store . In the illustrated example the client capabilities specify languages German and French and screen size 2.75 inches. Also in the illustrated example the mobile device represented by the client capabilities subscribes to three channels Sports Stocks and Weather. Selection criteria illustrates the five data sets that are selected based on the channel subscriptions and client capabilities of the mobile device . The selected data sets are represented as file icons in table .

Table represents an example organization of data typically stored in feed store of mobile device . On the left column of table the languages specified in client capabilities German and French are represented. Each of the second third and fourth columns of table represent a particular information channel. Each file icon represents a data set selected by selection criteria from table . Content for the channel Weather configured for presentation in French is not available since it was not available in table .

Selection criteria and represent functionality typically attributable to client of mobile device . Selection criteria and indicates that certain data sets may be selected from table based on a current location. Selection criteria and may represent an association of each language identified in client capabilities with one or more particular location. The association of each language with one or more particular location may be identified by data stored as preferences in local data . A selected data set would typically be sent to media player component . Selection criteria selects one of the three data sets configured for presentation in German when the current location is Germany Austria or Liechtenstein. Selection criteria selects one of the three data sets configured for presentation in French when the current location is France. Selection criteria also indicates that French is the default language which means that one of the three data sets configured for presentation in French is selected when the current location is not associated with a particular language. In the illustrated example the channel Weather does not have available content configured for presentation in French. Therefore when the current location is associated with the French language the data set configured for presentation in German is selected when retrieving content for the channel Weather. Depending on the channel being accessed and the current location one or more data sets may be sent to media player . Table illustrates that a particular data set is selected. The particular data set selected in the diagram is the Sports content configured for presentation in German.

Table illustrates data that may be stored in local data or feed store . For example table represents data stored as shared libraries that may be accessed by media player component . In the illustrated example there may be a shared runtime library that defines text images and other data configured for presenting content in French and another shared runtime library that defines similar items for presenting content in German. The media player component may access the German shared runtime library for example by a link provided in data set and or according to a dynamic selection by the mobile device depending on the currently active language.

At a plurality of channels are defined. Multiple available channels may be offered by a wireless service provider or by a third party service provider. Mobile devices may then subscribe to or register to receive channel updates for some or all of the available channels. Each channel may be adapted to receive a predetermined type of content in one or more predetermined formats such that the content may be accessed on the mobile device. For example the channels News and Baseball Scores may be defined at . Content for channels may be received for example by client from server over wireless network . The content may include media or multimedia data. Additionally the content may include data defining user interfaces menus channel features and the like. Channel content may be in a variety of formats such as text images vector graphics bitmaps frame based animation video or in any other format. Channel content may further include executable scripts or other sequences of instructions. The channel content may be read by a media player component and displayed or otherwise presented on the mobile device. As a specific example the channel Baseball Scores may receive text data identifying all of the Major League Baseball scores for a certain day.

At a plurality of languages are identified. The languages may be defined by a user for example by identifying languages in which the user prefers content to be presented. For example at the languages Japanese and Russian may be identified by a user who is capable in both the Japanese and Russian languages. Languages may be identified automatically for example by client or languages may be identified as default languages for a device. An identification of languages may be stored in local memory for example in preferences. In general any number of languages may be identified. Typically a subset of one to ten languages may be identified and the identified languages may correspond to languages that a user can read or speak. Also each of the identified languages may be associated with one or more locations. The locations associated with the identified languages may for example be countries states cities or regions to which the user travels frequently.

At data sets are received and each data set is configured for presenting channel content in one of the languages. Multiple data sets may represent content for a particular channel and they may be stored as a feed in feed store . There may be data sets configured for each of the languages identified at . Each data set may include a link to a shared runtime library that corresponds to the language for which the data set is configured. Some of the data received at may include all of part of or updates for a shared runtime library. The data sets may be received from server over wireless network and in some implementations the server may include data sets configured for presentation in languages other than the plurality of languages. In some implementations a data set may be configured for presentation in any of multiple different languages in which case the mobile device may select among multiple shared runtime libraries for text or other resources to be used in presenting the content.

At a current location is identified. The current location may be identified by the client . The current location may be identified as longitude and latitude coordinates e.g. 97.24 longitude 31.49 latitude or as a country state city e.g. USA California Sacramento and or any other politically geographically or conceptually defined region. In some implementations the current location may be identified as a home location or a home network location. Information describing the current location such as a longitude and latitude may be identified by a server and used to identify other information describing the current location such as a country state or city name. Some or all of the information describing the current location may be sent to the client . A current location may be identified by a wireless global information system such as a Global Positioning System or GPS that uses satellites to identify locations.

At one of the data sets is selected based on the identified current location. The data set may be selected by the client or by another component of the mobile device . In some implementations selecting a data set may include identifying the data set configured for presentation in the language associated with the current location. The client may provide the selected data set to media player for presentation. In some implementations after selecting a data set based on the current location a new current location may be identified and a different data set may be selected based on the new current location.

At a plurality of channels are defined. At a plurality of client capabilities are defined. The plurality of client capabilities may include all possible client capabilities a most probable set of client capabilities or a subset of most frequently occurring client capabilities. At multiple data sets are aggregated where each data set is configured to present channel content according to different client capabilities. For example server may aggregate data sets by generating or retrieving data sets configured for presentation in each of multiple languages on each of ten different screen sizes. Data sets may be retrieved for example from service providers or data sets may be generated for example by administrator . At client capabilities of a particular device are identified. For example client capabilities may be identified based on data received by server over wireless network from client . The client capabilities may identify a plurality of languages and specifications of mobile device . At data sets identified for the client capabilities of the particular device are sent. For example the data sets identified for the client capabilities may be sent from server over network to client . Typically the sent data sets are only a subset of the aggregated data sets.

The preceding flowcharts and accompanying descriptions illustrate example methods. It will be understood that these methods are for illustration purposes only and that the described or similar techniques may be performed at any appropriate time including concurrently individually or in combination. In addition many of the steps in these flowcharts may take place simultaneously and or in different orders than as shown. Moreover methods may be used with additional steps fewer steps and or different steps so long as the methods remain appropriate.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular embodiments of the invention have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

