---

title: Apparatus and method for measuring curvature of tubes
abstract: An apparatus for measuring an angle of inclination of a tangent to a centerline curve of a tube includes a shuttle and a clinometer rotatably fixed to the shuttle. The shuttle comprises a pair of circular end plates and a shaft that joins the end plates. A carrier is attached to the shaft and the clinometer is fixed to the carrier. The shaft is rotatable with respect to the end plates, or the carrier is rotatable with respect to the shaft. The method of determining curvature of a tube having a centerline curve comprises measuring angles of inclination of the tangent to the centerline curve at a plurality of axial locations along the tube.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08079154&OS=08079154&RS=08079154
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08079154
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070326
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

Due to the unavoidable presence of residual stress in the manufacture of gun barrels it is virtually impossible to produce a gun barrel that is adequately straight without post machining straightening. The process of barrel straightening involves physically altering the residual stress distribution in the barrel by some means such as bending the barrel beyond the elastic limit of the barrel material in a press. The straightening process requires as input some description of the state of the barrel centerline as manufactured.

A known method first establishes a reference line between the centers of the bore at the breech and muzzle ends of the barrel. The reference line may comprise a taut wire or a laser beam. A target constrained by the barrel bore so that the target center is collocated with the centerline of the bore is then moved from station to station axially along the tube. By using a telescope to view the target calibration with respect to the reference centerline a table of offsets of the centerline curve can be created. Based only on the table of offsets and his experience the operator of the straightening press must produce as straight a tube as possible. The lack of further guidance in this process makes it very much a matter of the operator s skill.

To improve productivity and quality a more accurate and complete description of the barrel centerline curve is required. Specifically if the magnitude and the point of application of the corrective bending moment are to be directly calculated rather than estimated by the press operator then the curvature of the barrel centerline must be precisely known. The curvature of the barrel centerline at stations along the length of the barrel may be obtained using the curvature formula. The curvature formula is solely a function of the first and second derivatives of the centerline curve. Because the centerline curve for a particular barrel is not a known mathematical function its derivatives must be determined numerically.

In theory it may be possible to calculate the required derivatives using the offsets of the centerline curve as measured by the known method discussed above. However the calculation of numerical derivatives is a process that is inherently unstable. That is unlike numerical integration and depending on the precision of the measurements used a decrease in the size of the measurement interval beyond a certain point leads to increased error. Thus the lack of measurement precision places an absolute limit on the precision of the derivative calculation. Because the measurement of the offsets of the centerline curve by the known method is not very precise it is problematic on that basis alone to base the calculation of the derivatives on such measurements.

Furthermore because the curvature formula contains second order as well as first order derivatives an additional source of error exists when using the measured offsets of the centerline curve. The additional error is the accumulating error that occurs with successive numerical operations. There are formulas for calculating higher order derivatives directly but these formulas are less accurate than the first order derivative formulas. Thus a need exists for a more accurate method of determining the curvature of a tube.

It is an object of the invention to provide a method for more accurately describing the centerline curve of a tube than the known methods.

It is another object of the invention to provide an apparatus for measuring the angle of inclination to the horizontal of a tangent to the centerline curve at designated positions along the length of the tube.

One aspect of the invention is an apparatus for measuring an angle of inclination of a tangent to a centerline curve of a tube comprising a shuttle and a clinometer rotatably fixed to the shuttle. The shuttle may comprise a pair of circular end plates and a shaft that joins the end plates. The shuttle may comprise a carrier attached to the shaft. The clinometer may be fixed to the carrier.

In one embodiment the shaft is rotatable with respect to the end plates. In another embodiment the carrier is rotatable with respect to the shaft.

The apparatus may further comprise a computer connected to the clinometer a line attached to the shuttle and a winch attached to the line.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of determining curvature of a tube having a centerline curve comprising measuring angles of inclination of a tangent to the centerline curve at a plurality of axial locations along the tube. In one embodiment four angles of inclination of a tangent to the centerline curve are measured at each axial location. Preferably the four angles of inclination are measured at four tube positions that are about ninety degrees apart.

The four angles of inclination may comprise two pairs of angles of inclination each pair comprising angles of inclination that are measured at tube locations that are 180 degrees apart. An angle of inclination that is corrected for gravity equals one half of a difference between the pair of angles of inclination that are measured at tube locations that are 180 degrees apart.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The inventive method for describing the centerline curve of a tube uses a coordinate system that is fixed relative to the tube. The coordinate system has its origin at the center of the rear face of the tube has its x axis directed horizontally has its y axis directed vertically and has its z axis directed perpendicularly to the other axes to define a right handed coordinate system. The plane defined by the x and z axes is therefore horizontal and is the plane of reference for measuring the angle of inclination of tangents to the centerline curve at a plurality of positions along the length of the tube. The measured angles are used in the calculations of the derivatives required for the calculation of curvature and other descriptors of the centerline curve. The first derivatives are calculated as described herein. The second derivatives may be obtained by numerically differentiation of the first derivatives.

The curvature formula for a tube and its derivation is described in detail in Quantifying Gun Barrel Curvature From Derivation of the Basic Formulas to Evaluating Derivatives Estimating Errors and Selecting Measurement Intervals by David F. Finlayson September 1993 16 pages available from the Defense Technical Information Center Accession Number ADP009078. This article by Finlayson is incorporated by reference herein.

Instruments to measure slope or angle of inclination are commercially available. These instruments are known as clinometers inclinometers or goniometers and they may have resolutions better than 0.002 degree of arc. To attain this level of accuracy requires reference to an unvarying direction vector. The local vertical gravity vector is convenient unvarying and reliable and is the reference of choice for clinometers.

To facilitate positioning of the shuttle in the tube end plates may be provided with circumferential grooves and elastic rings disposed in the grooves . The elastic rings provide a circumferential force against the wall of the tube and function to stabilize and center the shuttle . A shaft joins the end plates . The end plates and shaft may comprise for example aluminum.

A clinometer is rotatably fixed to the shuttle . The clinometer must be oriented so that it measures tilt in the vertical plane tangent to the tube centerline curve at the point of interest. The orientation of the clinometer must be the same regardless of the rotation of the shuttle inside of tube . Thus the shaft is gimbaled rotatable with respect to the end plates or the carrier may be gimbaled rotatable with respect to the shaft . In either embodiment the clinometer is fixed to the carrier . The distance between end plates the wheelbase varies with the caliber of the gun tube . Typically the wheelbase is about one to about one and a half times the caliber of the gun tube .

The inventive method includes measuring the angles of inclination of the tangent to the centerline curve of the tube at a plurality of axial locations along the tube. is a sectional view of the tube at axial location N showing the x y z coordinate system. The y and z axes are in the plane of the tube cross section and the x axis extends axially along the length of the tube . At each axial location N measurements of the angles of inclination of the tangent to the centerline curve are taken at four different rotational positions of the tube .

For example in a first measurement is taken with point A at the top of the tube. The next three measurements are taken at successive positions 90 degrees apart. That is tube is rotated so that point B is at the top of the tube and then a second measurement is taken. Tube is then rotated so that point C is at the top of the tube and then a third measurement is taken. Tube is then rotated so that point D is at the top of the tube and then the fourth measurement is taken.

Gravity causes the tube to droop or sag. The effect of gravity may be eliminated by taking a 180 degree out of phase measurement subtracting it from the 0 degree phase measurement and dividing the difference by two. Specifically the measurement taken when point C is at the top is subtracted from the point A measurement and the difference is divided by two. The result is an angle of inclination of the tangent to the centerline curve at section N without the effect of gravity. Similarly the measurement taken when point D is at the top is subtracted from the point C measurement and the difference is divided by two. The result is an angle of inclination of the tangent to the centerline curve at section N without the effect of gravity. These four measurements are taken at a plurality of axial locations N along the tube . A preferred axial interval for taking measurements is about two inches.

The slope of the centerline curve in the x y plane at section N is dy dx and the slope of the centerline curve in the x z plane at section N is dz dx. In the case of a two dimensional curve the slope is defined as tan where is the angle of inclination in the plane of the two dimensional curve. Because the centerline curve of a gun tube is three dimensional and because of the way the clinometer measures inclination angles a more precise expression for dy dx is

The measured values of and are substituted into Equations 1 and 2 to calculate the first order derivatives dy dx and dz dx at section N. The second and higher order derivatives at section N dy dxand dz dx may be obtained from the first order derivatives by known techniques of numerical differentiation. The curvature of the centerline curve is the inverse of the radius of curvature . The curvature is given by

The curvature may be calculated using Equation 3 for each axial location N along the length of the tube . A known curve fitting process may then be used to create a mathematical expression for the curvature as a function of axial location N along the tube. The tangent vector the principal normal vector and the binormal vector at each axial location N may also be determined from the derivatives see Quantifying Gun Barrel Curvature From Derivation of the Basic Formulas to Evaluating Derivatives Estimating Errors and Selecting Measurement Intervals by David F. Finlayson . One or more of the equation of curvature and the tangent principal normal and binormal vectors may be used by the press operator when straightening the tube . This information may also provide the basis for further calculations and eventual automation of the tube straightening process.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

