---

title: Removal of PCB and other halogenated organic contaminants found in ex situ structures
abstract: Emulsified systems of a surfactant-stabilized, biodegradable water-in-solvent emulsion with bimetallic particles contained with the emulsion droplets are useful at removing PCBs from ex situ structures. The hydrophobic emulsion system draws PCBs through the solvent/surfactant membrane. Once inside the membrane, the PCBs diffuse into the bimetallic particles and undergo degradation. The PCBs continue to enter, diffuse, degrade, and biphenyl will exit the particle maintaining a concentration gradient across the membrane and maintaining a driving force of the reaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07582682&OS=07582682&RS=07582682
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 07582682
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070815
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 977 622 filed Oct. 27 2004 issued Sep. 18 2007 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 271 199 which is commonly assigned and incorporated by reference herein and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 523 656 filed Nov. 17 2003 which is commonly assigned.

The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and by an employee of the United States Government and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 and may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore. In accordance with 35 U.S.C. 202 the contractor elected not to retain title.

The present invention relates generally to the removal of contaminants and in particular to the removal of polychlorinated biphenyls PCBs or other halogenated contaminants from ex situ structures.

The removal of contaminants from natural resources is an ongoing significant problem. Numerous tactics have been considered with various degrees of success. In U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 972 296 filed on Oct. 2 2001 and issued Dec. 16 2003 as U.S. Pat. No. 6 664 298 which is owned by the Assignee of the present invention and incorporated in the present application by express reference thereto a method was disclosed for delivering the reactant material to the contaminant in situ. A method incorporated the concept of either emulsification of the reactant or encapsulation of the reactant prior to its delivery to the contaminant in situ. The Method disclosed and claimed in patent application Ser. No. 09 972 296 has particular success in using a zero valent metal emulsion containing metal particles surfactant oil and water in a method of enhancing dehalogenation of dense non aqueous phase liquid DNAPL sources.

A second patent application PCT US 03 16610 was filed May 28 2003 corresponding to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 449 907 also filed on May 28 2003 and issued Mar. 7 2006 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 008 964 which patent also is owned by the Assignee of the present invention and is incorporated into the present application by reference thereto. This second patent application is directed among other features to a zero valent metal emulsion containing zero valent metal particles doped with a catalytic metal to remediate halogenated aromatic compounds such as polychlorinated biphenyls PCBs from natural resources i.e. in the ground.

PCBs have been used in many industrial applications because of their robust physical and chemical properties such as their resistance to acids bases and oxidation their excellent dielectric characteristics and their thermal stability at high temperatures up to 350 C. . PCBs were abundantly used as a stabilizer in paints in the late 1960s. When PCBs were released into the environment they were sorbed to particulate matter that was then dispersed over large areas. PCBs can be introduced into the food chain by the uptake of contaminated soils by biota and humans can directly inhale or absorb PCBs by dermal contact. Although the United States Environmental Protection Agency EPA has banned the manufacture of PCBs since 1979 PCBs are still present in the environment posing possible adverse health affects to both humans and animals. In fact PCBs can still be found in the paints located on NASA property at a number of the Centers. The PCB levels in painted structures on the Kennedy Space Center KSC have been documented to be as high as 31 000 ppm.

Currently only land filling or smelting operations are available for complete treatment of ex situ structures containing PCBs. Sandblasting or water blasting operations can be utilized to remove contaminated coatings from structures however this material must also be thermally treated or land filled in a Toxic Substances Control Act TSCA regulated landfill.

As will become clear here below the present invention expands on the concept described in the previously cited applications to effectively treat PCBs found in painted structures or other ex situ facilities. For the reasons stated above and for other reasons stated below that will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon reading and understanding the present specification there is a need in the art for alternative methods and compositions for the removal of PCBs from ex situ structures.

The various embodiments of the invention provide an emulsified system of a surfactant stabilized biodegradable water in solvent emulsion with nano or microscale bimetallic particles contained with the emulsion droplets. The hydrophobic emulsion system draws PCBs through the solvent surfactant membrane. Once inside the membrane PCBs diffuse to the bimetallic particles and undergo degradation. The PCBs continue to enter diffuse degrade and biphenyl or other benign byproduct will exit the particle maintaining a concentration gradient across the membrane and maintaining a driving force of the reaction.

For one embodiment the invention provides a water in solvent emulsion. The emulsion includes a solvent phase having a solvent and a surfactant and a water phase having water and nano or microscale bimetallic particles. The bimetallic particles include a zero valent metal component and a catalytic component that are milled together prior to forming the emulsion. The solvent can be toluene d limonene hexanes or the like. The water phase may further include a surfactant and or a hydrophilic solvent such as methanol.

For another embodiment the invention provides a water in solvent emulsion. The emulsion includes a solvent phase having a solvent and a surfactant and a water phase having water and nano or microscale bimetallic particles. The solvent is toluene d limonene hexanes or the like. The water phase may further include a surfactant and or a hydrophilic solvent such as methanol. The bimetallic particles include a zero valent metal component and a catalytic component.

For a further embodiment the invention provides a method of removing contaminants from an ex situ structure. The method includes applying a water in solvent emulsion to the structure where the emulsion includes a solvent phase having a solvent and a surfactant and a water phase having water and nano or microscale bimetallic particles. The bimetallic particles include a zero valent metal component and a catalytic component. The water phase may further include a surfactant and or a hydrophilic solvent.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments the embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical and chemical changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

The present invention provides an in situ PCB remediation process that is applicable for the treatment of ex situ structures containing metal and PCB compounds within externally applied coatings such as paint caulking material elastomeric coating etc. While it is known that zero valent iron Fe is very effective in the treatment of chlorinated hydrocarbons such as dissolved trichloroethylene TCE zero valent iron by itself is unable to completely dechlorinate PCBs dissolved in aqueous solutions. As described herein a catalyst such as palladium Pd is added to the zero valent iron or other zero valent metal particle such as zero valent magnesium Mg . While the Pd Fe bimetallic particles have been shown to effectively remove dissolved phase PCBs the use of Pd Fe and or Pd Mg particles to treat impregnated PCBs would be minimized by the coating material itself. As will be explained below the emulsion technology of the present invention can be used to remediate PCB containing coatings that have historically been applied to ex situ support structures. As will be explained a dense reactive emulsion applied to ex situ structures functions to disassociate the PCBs from the coating i.e. paint and degrades the chlorinated aromatics into biphenyl or other benign by product. In addition the invention describes a method for ball milling carbon supported noble metals and transition metals together to form a very effective and economical catalytic system.

The present invention is directed to an emulsified system consisting of a surfactant stabilized biodegradable water in toluene or water in d limonene emulsion with nano or microscale bimetallic particles contained with the emulsion droplets. The hydrophobic emulsion system draws PCBs through the solvent surfactant membrane solvents may include but are not limited to d limonene and toluene and a food grade surfactant may be chosen . Once inside the membrane the metals and PCBs diffuse to the bimetallic particles and undergo degradation in the case of chlorinated compounds. The PCBs continue to enter diffuse degrade and biphenyl or other benign byproduct will exit the particle maintaining a concentration gradient across the membrane and maintaining a driving force of the reaction. Microscale magnesium Mg coated with a very small amount of palladium Pd was chosen as the media for the PCB degradation. Other catalysts may be used instead of Pd. These active catalysts include zinc Zn nickel Ni copper Cu and others.

The present invention uses an emulsion system to degrade PCBs into benign end products. The unique emulsion may be formulated as follows 40 ml toluene 80 ml water 20 g bimetallic metal 12 g surfactant. The bimetallic metal may comprise either microscale magnesium or iron e.g. approximately 0.1 10 microns or smaller ball milled with 1 10 palladium supported on carbon. The mass percent palladium by weight ranges from approximately 0.01 15 and more preferably 0.08 8 . While toluene is utilized as the solvent the present invention may use d limonene hexanes or other similar solvents.

As an alternative to ball milling the metal particles e.g. Fe or Mg may be coated with a catalytic metal e.g. Pd via solution. For one example approximately 100 g of microscale zero valent iron particles such as those available through Alfa Aesar Inc. or BASF Inc. are weighed and placed in a Buchner Funnel. The microscale zero valent iron particles are then washed with 100 ml of a 5 hydrochloric HCl or sulfuric HSO solution 5 mL HCL or HSOand 95 mL of deoxygenated de ionized water . The microscale zero valent iron particles are then filtered. Then 0.19 g of KPdClis dissolved in 100 mL of deoxygenated de ionized water. The filtered microscale zero valent iron particles are then placed in an Erlenmeyer flask and the KPdClsolution added. The resulting mixture is stirred in the flask using a magnetic stirrer for 5 minutes. The solution is then allowed to settle and filtered until dry. Using a procedure as described the resulting bimetallic microscale particles had a palladium coating of approximately 0.06 Pd Fe. For another example microscale zero valent iron may be coated with palladium Pd using a 40 g L Pallamerse solution. The Pallamerse solution is made up of 10.0 potassium dinitrosulfate palladate II K Pd NO SO. The following procedure indicates one such method for coating 2.5 g of microscale zero valent iron particles. The microscale zero valent iron particles are washed in a Buchner Funnel with 10 mL of 10 HSOsolution. The microscale zero valent iron particles are then rinsed with 10 mL of deoxygenated de ionized water. Then 5 mL of the Pallamerse solution is added and the mixture is allowed to sit for 2 minutes before filtering. After the mixture is filtered the microscale zero valent iron particles are washed with 10 mL of deoxygenated de ionized water. The material is then filtered until dry. The resulting bimetallic microscale particles had a palladium coating of approximately 7 Pd Fe.

The Figure is a conceptual depiction of an emulsified system in accordance with the invention. The emulsified system has a solvent phase and a water phase contained in the solvent phase and separated by an interface . Droplets of the water phase contain bimetallic particles . Bimetallic particles contain a zero valent metal component and a catalytic component .

The solvent phase contains a hydrophobic solvent such as toluene d limonene hexanes and the like suitable for transport of the PCBs or other halogenated organic contaminants to droplets of the water phase . The solvent phase further includes a surfactant chosen to promote a water in solvent emulsion. The water phase may also include a surfactant or a hydrophilic solvent such as methanol to reduce surface tension of the droplet and to promote transport of the PCBs or other halogenated organic contaminants to the bimetallic particles contained within the water phase .

Choice of surfactants for the solvent phase and water phase is generally well understood in the art. To produce a water in solvent emulsion the surfactant system must generally be more hydrophobic than hydrophilic. The surfactant system can include more than one surfactant.

For one embodiment the zero valent metal component contains iron or magnesium. For a further embodiment the catalytic component contains a noble or transition metal catalyst. Some example catalysts include Pd Zn Ni or Cu.

The reaction rates are divided into two independent categories the rate at which the emulsion can extract the PCBs from the paint and the rate at which the PCBs can be degraded by the bimetal and water reactants.

It is noted that a GC MS gas chromatograph mass spectrometer was utilized for evaluation of the results presented herein. However an ECD electron capture detector tracking a specific congener simplifies the analysis. Data values presented are area counts except for retention time which is expressed in minutes.

The present invention has significant commercial application to government and industry in removing PCBs from paint and similar materials covering ex situ structures. Numerous NASA Centers have older metal structures upon which paints containing polychlorinated biphenyls PCB were applied. These painted structures are posing worker and ecological health hazards and in several instances are now considered a TSCA level Toxic Substance Control Act waste. Some of the impacted structures could be refurbished and utilized for new Programs but because the paint currently on the structures is heavily laden with PCBs the Programs are unable to reuse or even discard these structures without significant cost. The embodiments of the invention detail a new and innovative solution to the removal of PCBs from painted structures using a paint on and wipe off bimetallic emulsion that extracts only the PCBs from the paint and leaves the structure virtually unaltered.

Polychlorinated biphenyls PCBs are a group of synthetic aromatic compounds with the general formula CHClthat were historically used by industry because of their excellent dielectric properties and their resistance to heat and chemical degradation. Although the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA has banned the manufacture of PCBs since 1979 they currently can be detected at every NASA Center. PCBs have been introduced into the NASA work environment via improper disposal and accidental leaks from transformers heat exchangers and hydraulic systems. Formerly PCBs were also extensively used in paints as their properties enhanced structural integrity reduced flammability and boosted antifungal properties. Because of the serious health problems associated with the bioaccumulation of PCBs in animals including humans and the desire for NASA Programs to have a quick and nondestructive means of removing PCBs from existing structures the development of a paint on wipe off emulsion for the removal of PCBs found in older painted structures is considered highly desirable.

In 2003 KSC initiated the development of a water in toluene emulsion containing a bimetallic reactant for the treatment of PCBs found in painted structures. The emulsion droplet has two functions. First and foremost the exterior membrane of the emulsion which consists of a mixture of surfactant and solvent seeks to extract the PCBs that are contained within the 40 year old paint. Once these two chemicals have pulled the PCBs into the outer emulsion membrane a concentration gradient forces them into contact with the water bimetallic reactants that are located interior to the emulsion droplet. The water and bimetal initiate an abiotic reductive dehalogenation reaction that completely degrades the PCBs to benign end products that diffuse out of the emulsion membrane.

The emulsion developed in 2003 was applied to pieces of paint obtained from the abandoned Apollo Program s Launch Umbilical Tower LUT . LUT paint chips were immersed in the PCB removal emulsion for various periods of time extending from two hours to four days. Emulsion kinetics were evaluated from two perspectives effective rate of PCB removal from the paint and the kinetic degradation of the PCBs once interior to the emulsion droplet and in contact with the bimetallic reactant. Initial data indicates that complete PCB extraction and degradation from paint chips containing as high as 700 ppm total PCBs could be achieved in as little as 48 hours of exposure.

An emulsified system of a surfactant stabilized biodegradable water in solvent emulsion with bimetallic particles contained with the emulsion droplets have been described for the removal of PCBs from coated surfaces. The hydrophobic emulsion system draws PCBs through the solvent surfactant membrane. Once inside the membrane the PCBs diffuse to the bimetallic particles and undergo degradation. The PCBs continue to enter diffuse and degrade to nonchlorinated products such as biphenyl which then exits the emulsion droplet maintaining a concentration gradient across the membrane and maintaining a driving force of the reaction.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiment shown. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention. Therefore it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

