---

title: IAP inhibitors
abstract: Smac mimetics that inhibit IAPs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08143426&OS=08143426&RS=08143426
owner: TetraLogic Pharmaceuticals Corporation
number: 08143426
owner_city: Malvern
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070724
---
This application claims priority to and benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 820 141 entitled IAP Inhibitors filed on Jul. 24 2006 the entire contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Apoptosis programmed cell death plays a central role in the development and homeostasis of all multi cellular organisms. Apoptosis can be initiated within a cell from an external factor such as a chemokine an extrinsic pathway or via an intracellular event such a DNA damage an intrinsic pathway . Alterations in apoptotic pathways have been implicated in many types of human pathologies including developmental disorders cancer autoimmune diseases as well as neuro degenerative disorders. One mode of action of chemotherapeutic drugs is cell death via apoptosis.

Apoptosis is conserved across species and executed primarily by activated caspases a family of cysteine proteases with aspartate specificity in their substrates. These cysteine containing aspartate specific proteases caspases are produced in cells as catalytically inactive zymogens and are proteolytically processed to become active proteases during apoptosis. Once activated effector caspases are responsible for proteolytic cleavage of a broad spectrum of cellular targets that ultimately lead to cell death. In normal surviving cells that have not received an apoptotic stimulus most caspases remain inactive. If caspases are aberrantly activated their proteolytic activity can be inhibited by a family of evolutionarily conserved proteins called IAPs inhibitors of apoptosis proteins .

The IAP family of proteins suppresses apoptosis by preventing the activation of procaspases and inhibiting the enzymatic activity of mature caspases. Several distinct mammalian IAPs including XIAP c IAP1 c IAP2 ML IAP NAIP neuronal apoptosis inhibiting protein Bruce and survivin have been identified and they all exhibit anti apoptotic activity in cell culture. IAPs were originally discovered in baculovirus by their functional ability to substitute for P35 protein an anti apoptotic gene. IAPs have been described in organisms ranging from Drosophila to human and are known to be overexpressed in many human cancers. Generally speaking IAPs comprise one to three Baculovirus IAP repeat BIR domains and most of them also possess a carboxyl terminal RING finger motif. The BIR domain itself is a zinc binding domain of about 70 residues comprising 4 alpha helices and 3 beta strands with cysteine and histidine residues that coordinate the zinc ion. It is the BIR domain that is believed to cause the anti apoptotic effect by inhibiting the caspases and thus inhibiting apoptosis. XIAP is expressed ubiquitously in most adult and fetal tissues. Overexpression of XIAP in tumor cells has been demonstrated to confer protection against a variety of pro apoptotic stimuli and promotes resistance to chemotherapy. Consistent with this a strong correlation between XIAP protein levels and survival has been demonstrated for patients with acute myelogenous leukemia. Down regulation of XIAP expression by antisense oligonucleotides has been shown to sensitize tumor cells to death induced by a wide range of pro apoptotic agents both in vitro and in vivo. Smac DIABLO derived peptides have also been demonstrated to sensitize a number of different tumor cell lines to apoptosis induced by a variety of pro apoptotic drugs.

In normal cells signaled to undergo apoptosis however the TAP mediated inhibitory effect must be removed a process at least in part performed by a mitochondrial protein named Smac second mitochondrial activator of caspases . Smac or DIABLO is synthesized as a precursor molecule of 239 amino acids the N terminal 55 residues serve as the mitochondria targeting sequence that is removed after import. The mature form of Smac contains 184 amino acids and behaves as an oligomer in solution. Smac and various fragments thereof have been proposed for use as targets for identification of therapeutic agents.

Smac is synthesized in the cytoplasm with an N terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence that is proteolytically removed during maturation to the mature polypeptide and is then targeted to the inter membrane space of mitochondria. At the time of apoptosis induction Smac is released from mitochondria into the cytosol together with cytochrome c where it binds to IAPs and enables caspase activation therein eliminating the inhibitory effect of IAPs on apoptosis Whereas cytochrome c induces multimerization of Apaf 1 to activate procaspase 9 and 3 Smac eliminates the inhibitory effect of multiple IAPs. Smac interacts with essentially all IAPs that have been examined to date including XIAP c IAP1 c IAP2 ML IAP and survivin. Thus Smac appears to be a master regulator of apoptosis in mammals.

It has been shown that Smac promotes not only the proteolytic activation of procaspases but also the enzymatic activity of mature caspase both of which depend upon its ability to interact physically with IAPs. X ray crystallography has shown that the first four amino acids AVPI of mature Smac bind to a portion of IAPs. This N terminal sequence is essential for binding IAPs and blocking their anti apoptotic effects.

Current trends in cancer drug design focus on selective targeting to activate the apoptotic signaling pathways within tumors while sparing normal cells. The tumor specific properties of specific chemotherapeutic agents such as TRAIL have been reported. The tumor necrosis factor related apoptosis inducing ligand TRAIL is one of several members of the tumor necrosis factor TNF superfamily that induce apoptosis through the engagement of death receptors. TRAIL interacts with an unusually complex receptor system which in humans comprises two death receptors and three decoy receptors. TRAIL has been used as an anti cancer agent alone and in combination with other agents including ionizing radiation. TRAIL can initiate apoptosis in cells that overexpress the survival factors Bcl 2 and Bcl XL and may represent a treatment strategy for tumors that have acquired resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs. TRAIL binds its cognate receptors and activates the caspase cascade utilizing adapter molecules such as TRADD. TRAIL signaling can be inhibited by overexpression of cIAP 1 or 2 indicating an important role for these proteins in the signaling pathway. Currently five TRAIL receptors have been identified. Two receptors TRAIL R1 DR4 and TRAIL R2 DR5 mediate apoptotic signaling and three non functional receptors DcR1 DcR2 and osteoprotegerin OPG may act as decoy receptors. Agents that increase expression of DR4 and DR5 may exhibit synergistic anti tumor activity when combined with TRAIL.

The basic biology of how IAP antagonists work suggests that they may complement or synergize other chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agents and or radiation. Chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agents and radiation would be expected to induce apoptosis as a result of DNA damage and or the disruption of cellular metabolism.

Inhibition of the ability of a cancer cell to replicate and or repair DNA damage will enhance nuclear DNA fragmentation and thus will promote the cell to enter the apoptotic pathway. Topoisomerases a class of enzymes that reduce supercoiling in DNA by breaking and rejoining one or both strands of the DNA molecule are vital to cellular processes such as DNA replication and repair. Inhibition of this class of enzymes impairs the cells ability to replicate as well as to repair damaged DNA and activates the intrinsic apoptotic pathway.

The main pathways leading from topoisomerase mediated DNA damage to cell death involve activation of caspases in the cytoplasm by proapoptotic molecules released from mitochondria such as Smac. The engagement of these apoptotic effector pathways is tightly controlled by upstream regulatory pathways that respond to DNA lesions induced by topoisomerase inhibitors in cells undergoing apoptosis. Initiation of cellular responses to DNA lesions induced by topoisomerase inhibitors is ensured by the protein kinases which bind to DNA breaks. These kinases non limiting examples of which include Akt JNK and P38 commonly called DNA sensors mediate DNA repair cell cycle arrest and or apoptosis by phosphorylating a large number of substrates including several downstream kinases.

Platinum chemotherapy drugs belong to a general group of DNA modifying agents. DNA modifying agents may be any highly reactive chemical compound that bonds with various nucleophilic groups in nucleic acids and proteins and cause mutagenic carcinogenic or cytotoxic effects. DNA modifying agents work by different mechanisms disruption of DNA function and cell death DNA damage the formation of cross bridges or bonds between atoms in the DNA and induction of mispairing of the nucleotides leading to mutations to achieve the same end result. Three non limiting examples of a platinum containing DNA modifying agents are cisplatin carboplatin and oxaliplatin.

Cisplatin is believed to kill cancer cells by binding to DNA and interfering with its repair mechanism eventually leading to cell death. Carboplatin and oxaliplatin are cisplatin derivatives that share the same mechanism of action. Highly reactive platinum complexes are formed intracellularly and inhibit DNA synthesis by covalently binding DNA molecules to form intrastrand and interstrand DNA crosslinks.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs have been shown to induce apoptosis in colorectal cells. NSAIDs appear to induce apoptosis via the release of Smac from the mitochondria PNAS Nov. 30 2004 vol. 101 16897 16902 . Therefore the use of NSAIDs in combination with Smac mimetics would be expected to increase the activity each drug over the activity of either drug independently.

Many naturally occurring compounds isolated from bacterial plant and animals can display potent and selective biological activity in humans including anticancer and antineoplastic activities. In fact many natural products or semi synthetic derivatives thereof which possess anticancer activity are already commonly used as therapeutic agents these include paclitaxel etoposide vincristine and camptothecin amongst others. Additionally there are many other classes of natural products such as the indolocarbazoles and epothilones that are undergoing clinical evaluation as anticancer agents.

A reoccurring structural motif in many natural products is the attachment of one or more sugar residues onto an aglycone core structure. In some instances the sugar portion of the natural product is critical for making discrete protein ligand interactions at its site of action i.e. pharmacodynamics and removal of the sugar residue results in significant reductions in biological activity. In other cases the sugar moiety or moieties are important for modulating the physical and pharmacokinetic properties of the molecule. Rebeccamycin and staurosporine are representative of the sugar linked indolocarbazole family of anticancer natural products with demonstrated anti kinase and anti topoisomerase activity.

The present invention provides IAP antagonists that are peptidomimetic compounds that mimic the tertiary binding structure and activity of the N terminal four amino acids of mature Smac to IAPs. The invention also provides methods of using these mimetics to modulate apoptosis and further for therapeutic purposes.

One aspect of the present invention is an antagonist inhibitor of an TAP that is a peptidomimetic compound that mimics the tertiary binding structure of the N terminal amino acids of mature Smac to IAPs and that has either an optionally substituted 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group with at least one N or O atom in the ring such as for example D or L fucose xylose galactose glucose pyrrolidine piperidine or perhydroazapine or an optionally substituted heteroaryl group containing at least one N atom such as for example pyridine pyrimidine or pyrazine at the C terminus of the peptidomimetic. Such compounds include but are not limited to monomers homodimers and heterodimers of such Smac mimetics.

In one aspect of the present invention an IAP antagonist that is a monomeric homodimeric or heterodimeric compound having the general formula I or IV depicted below and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. Solvates including hydrates stereoisomers including enantiomers crystalline forms including polymorphs and the like are encompassed within the scope of the invention.

Another embodiment of the present invention is the therapeutic combination of compounds of the present invention with TRAIL or other chemical or biological agents which bind to and activate the TRAIL receptor s TRAIL has received considerable attention recently because of the finding that many cancer cell types are sensitive to TRAIL induced apoptosis while most normal cells appear to be resistant to this action of TRAIL. TRAIL resistant cells may arise by a variety of different mechanisms including loss of the receptor presence of decoy receptors or overexpression of FLIP which competes for zymogen caspase 8 binding during DISC formation. In TRAIL resistance Smac mimetics increase tumor cell sensitivity to TRAIL leading to enhanced cell death the clinical correlations of which are expected to be increased apoptotic activity in TRAIL resistant tumors improved clinical response increased response duration and ultimately enhanced patient survival rate. In support of this reduction in XIAP levels by in vitro antisense treatment has been shown to cause sensitization of resistant melanoma cells and renal carcinoma cells to TRAIL Chawla Sarkar et al. 2004 . The Smac mimetics disclosed herein bind to IAPs and inhibit their interaction with caspases therein potentiating TRAIL induced apoptosis.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides Smac mimetics which act synergistically with topoisomerase inhibitors to potentiate their apoptotic inducing effect. Topoisomerase inhibitors inhibit DNA replication and repair thereby promoting apoptosis and have been used as chemothermotherapeutic agents. Topoisomerase inhibitors promote DNA damage by inhibiting the enzymes that are required in the DNA repair process. Therefore export of Smac from the mitochondria into the cell cytosol is provoked by the DNA damage caused by topoisomerase inhibitors.

Topoisomerase inhibitors of both the Type I class camptothecin topotecan SN 38 irinotecan active metabolite and the Type II class etoposide show potent synergy with the Smac mimetics of the invention in a multi resistant glioblastoma cell line T98G breast cancer line MDA MB 231 and ovarian cancer line OVCAR 3 among others. Further examples of topoisomerase inhibiting agents that may be used include but are not limited to irinotecan topotecan etoposide amsacrine exatecan gimatecan etc. Other topoisomerase inhibitors include for example Aclacinomycin A camptothecin daunorubicin doxorubicin ellipticine epirubicin and mitaxantrone.

In another embodiment of the invention the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent may be a platinum containing compound. In one embodiment of the invention the platinum containing compound is cisplatin. Cisplatin can synergize with a Smac peptidomimetic and potentiate the inhibition of an IAP such as but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML IAP etc. In another embodiment a platinum containing compound is carboplatin. Carboplatin can synergize with a Smac peptidomimetic and potentiate the inhibition of an IAP including but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML TAP etc. In another embodiment a platinum containing compound is oxaliplatin. The oxaliplatin can synergize with a Smac peptidomimetic and potentiate the inhibition of an TAP including but not limited to XIAP cIAP 1 c IAP 2 ML IAP etc.

In another embodiment of the invention the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent that synergizes with a compound according to the present invention is a taxane. Taxanes are anti mitotic mitotic inhibitors or microtubule polymerization agents. Taxanes include but are not limited to docetaxel and paclitaxel.

Taxanes are characterized as compounds that promote assembly of microtubules by inhibiting tubulin depolymerization thereby blocking cell cycle progression through centrosomal impairment induction of abnormal spindles and suppression of spindle microtubule dynamics. The unique mechanism of action of taxane is in contrast to other microtubule poisons such as Vinca alkaloids colchicine and cryptophycines which inhibit tubulin polymerization. Microtubules are highly dynamic cellular polymers made of alpha beta tubulin and associated proteins that play key roles during mitosis by participating in the organization and function of the spindle assuring the integrity of the segregated DNA. Therefore they represent an effective target for cancer therapy.

In another embodiment any agent that activates the intrinsic apoptotic pathway and or causes the release of Smac or cytochrome c from the mitochondria has the potential to act synergistically with a Smac mimetic.

A combination of a Smac peptidomimetic and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy of any type that activates the intrinsic pathway may provide a more effective approach to destroying tumor cells. Smac peptidomimetics interact with IAP s such as XIAP cIAP 1 cIAP 2 ML IAP etc. and block the IAP mediated inhibition of apoptosis while chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and or radiation therapy kills actively dividing cells by activating the intrinsic apoptotic pathway leading to apoptosis and cell death. As is described in more detail below embodiments of the invention provide combinations of a Smac pepidomimetc and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation which provide a synergistic action against unwanted cell proliferation. This synergistic action between a Smac peptidomimetic and a chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy can improve the efficiency of the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy. This will allow for an increase in the effectiveness of current chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agents or radiation treatment allowing the dose of the chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent to be lowered therein providing both a more effective dosing schedule as well as a more tolerable dose of chemotherapeutic anti neoplastic agent and or radiation therapy.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the invention are described by referring mainly to specific illustrative embodiments thereof. In addition in the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without limitation to these specific details. In other instances well known methods and structures have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the invention.

 Alkyl and alkylene mean a branched or unbranched saturated or unsaturated i.e. alkenyl alkenylene alkynyl alkynylene non cyclic aliphatic hydrocarbon group having up to 12 carbon atoms unless otherwise specified. However if alkenylene is specified but alkynylene is not then alkynylene is excluded E.g. alkylene or alkenylene excludes alkynylene. When used as part of another term for example alkylamino the alkyl portion may be a saturated hydrocarbon chain however also includes unsaturated hydrocarbon carbon chains such as alkenylamino and alkynylamino . Examples of particular alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl n pentyl 2 methylbutyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl n hexyl 2 methylpentyl 2 2 dimethylbutyl n heptyl 3 heptyl 2 methylhexyl and the like. The terms lower alkyl C Calkyl and alkyl of 1 to 4 carbon atoms are synonymous and used interchangeably to mean methyl ethyl 1 propyl isopropyl cyclopropyl 1 butyl sec butyl or t butyl. Unless specified optionally substituted alkyl groups may contain one two three or four substituents which may be the same or different. Examples of the above substituted alkyl groups include but are not limited to cyanomethyl nitromethyl hydroxymethyl trityloxymethyl propionyloxymethyl aminomethyl carboxymethyl carboxyethyl carboxypropyl alkyloxycarbonylmethyl allyloxycarbonylaminomethyl carbamoyloxymethyl methoxymethyl ethoxymethyl t butoxymethyl acetoxymethyl chloromethyl bromomethyl iodomethyl trifluoromethyl 6 hydroxyhexyl 2 4 dichloro n butyl 2 amino iso propyl 2 carbamoyloxyethyl and the like. The alkyl group may also be substituted with a carbocycle group. Examples include cyclopropylmethyl cyclobutylmethyl cyclopentylmethyl and cyclohexylmethyl groups as well as the corresponding ethyl propyl butyl pentyl hexyl groups etc. Particular substituted alkyls are substituted methyl groups. Examples of the substituted methyl groups include groups such as hydroxymethyl protected hydroxymethyl e.g. tetrahydropyranyloxymethyl acetoxymethyl carbamoyloxymethyl trifluoromethyl chloromethyl carboxymethyl bromomethyl and iodomethyl. Cycloalkyl means a saturated or unsaturated cyclic aliphatic hydrocarbon group having up to 12 carbon atoms unless otherwise specified and includes cyclic and polycyclic including fused cycloalkyl.

Particular secondary and tertiary amines are alkylamine dialkylamine arylamine diarylamine aralkylamine and diaralkylamine. Particular secondary and tertiary amines are methylamine ethylamine propylamine isopropylamine phenylamine benzylamine dimethylamine diethylamine dipropylamine and disopropylamine.

 Aryl when used alone or as part of another term means a carbocyclic aromatic group whether or not fused having the number of carbon atoms designated or if no number is designated up to 14 carbon atoms Particular aryl groups include phenyl naphthyl biphenyl phenanthrenyl naphthacenyl and the like see e.g. Lang s Handbook of Chemistry Dean J. A. ed 13ed. Table 7 2 1985 . In a particular embodiment an aryl group is phenyl. Optionally substituted phenyl or optionally substituted aryl denotes a phenyl group or aryl group that may be substituted with one two three four or five substituents chosen unless otherwise specified from halogen F Cl Br I hydroxy protected hydroxy cyano nitro alkyl such as C Calkyl alkoxy such as C Calkoxy benzyloxy carboxy protected carboxy carboxymethyl protected carboxymethyl hydroxymethyl protected hydroxymethyl aminomethyl protected aminomethyl trifluoromethyl alkylsulfonylamino arylsulfonylamino heterocyclylsulfonylamino heterocyclyl aryl or other groups specified. One or more methyne CH and or methylene CH groups in these substituents may in turn be substituted with a similar group as those denoted above. Examples of the term substituted phenyl includes but is not limited to a mono or di halo phenyl group such as 2 chlorophenyl 2 bromophenyl 4 chlorophenyl 2 6 dichlorophenyl 2 5 dichlorophenyl 3 4 dichlorophenyl 3 chlorophenyl 3 bromophenyl 4 bromophenyl 3 4 dibromophenyl 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl 2 fluorophenyl and the like a mono or di hydroxy phenyl group such as 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 hydroxyphenyl 2 4 dihydroxyphenyl the protected hydroxy derivatives thereof and the like a nitrophenyl group such as 3 or 4 nitrophenyl a cyanophenyl group for example 4 cyanophenyl a mono or di lower alkyl phenyl group such as 4 methylphenyl 2 4 dimethylphenyl 2 methylphenyl 4 iso propyl phenyl 4 ethylphenyl 3 n propyl phenyl and the like a mono or di alkoxy phenyl group for example 3 4 dimethoxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy phenyl 3 ethoxyphenyl 4 isopropoxy phenyl 4 t butoxy phenyl 3 ethoxy 4 methoxyphenyl and the like 3 or 4 trifluoromethylphenyl a mono or dicarboxyphenyl or protected carboxy phenyl group such 4 carboxyphenyl a mono or di hydroxymethyl phenyl or protected hydroxymethyl phenyl such as 3 protected hydroxymethyl phenyl or 3 4 di hydroxymethyl phenyl a mono or di aminomethyl phenyl or protected aminomethyl phenyl such as 2 aminomethyl phenyl or 2 4 protected aminomethyl phenyl or a mono or di N methylsulfonylamino phenyl such as 3 N methylsulfonylamino phenyl. Also the term substituted phenyl represents disubstituted phenyl groups where the substituents are different for example 3 methyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 chloro 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 methoxy 4 bromophenyl 4 ethyl 2 hydroxyphenyl 3 hydroxy 4 nitrophenyl 2 hydroxy 4 chlorophenyl and the like as well as trisubstituted phenyl groups where the substituents are different for example 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 6 methyl sulfonylamino 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 6 phenyl sulfonylamino and tetrasubstituted phenyl groups where the substituents are different such as 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxy 5 methyl 6 phenyl sulfonylamino. Particular substituted phenyl groups are 2 chlorophenyl 2 aminophenyl 2 bromophenyl 3 methoxyphenyl 3 ethoxy phenyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 4 methoxyphenyl 3 ethoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 4 diethoxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy phenyl 3 methoxy 4 1 chloromethyl benzyloxy 6 methyl sulfonyl aminophenyl groups. Fused aryl rings may also be substituted with the substituents specified herein for example with 1 2 or 3 substituents in the same manner as substituted alkyl groups.

 Heterocyclic group heterocyclic heterocycle heterocyclyl heterocycloalkyl or heterocyclo alone and when used as a moiety in a complex group are used interchangeably and refer to cycloalkyl group i.e. any mono bi or tricyclic saturated or unsaturated non aromatic ring systems having the number of atoms designated generally from 5 to about 14 atoms where the ring atoms are carbon and at least one heteroatom nitrogen sulfur or oxygen . In a particular embodiment the group incorporates 1 to 4 heteroatoms. Typically a 5 membered ring has 0 to 2 double bonds and 6 or 7 membered ring has 0 to 3 double bonds and the nitrogen or sulfur heteroatoms may optionally be oxidized e.g. SO SO and any nitrogen heteroatom may optionally be quaternized. Particular non aromatic heterocycles include morpholinyl morpholino pyrrolidinyl oxiranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl 2 3 dihydrofuranyl 2H pyranyl tetrahydropyranyl aziridinyl azetidinyl 1 methyl 2 pyrrolyl piperazinyl and piperidinyl. For the avoidance of doubt heterocycloalkyl includes heterocycloalkyl alkyl.

 Heteroaryl alone and when used as a moiety in a complex group refers to any aryl group i.e. mono bi or tricyclic aromatic ring system having the number of atoms designated where at least one ring is a 5 6 or 7 membered ring containing from one to four heteroatoms selected from the group nitrogen oxygen and sulfur Lang s Handbook of Chemistry supra . Included in the definition are any bicyclic groups where any of the above heteroaryl rings are fused to a benzene ring. The following ring systems are examples of the heteroaryl whether substituted or unsubstituted groups denoted by the term heteroaryl thienyl furyl imidazolyl pyrazolyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl oxadiazolyl tetrazolyl thiatriazolyl oxatriazolyl pyridyl pyrimidyl pyrazinyl pyridazinyl thiazinyl oxazinyl triazinyl thiadiazinyl oxadiazinyl dithiazinyl dioxazinyl oxathiazinyl tetrazinyl thiatriazinyl oxatriazinyl dithiadiazinyl imidazolinyl dihydropyrimidyl tetrahydropyrimidyl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazinyl and purinyl as well as benzo fused derivatives for example benzoxazolyl benzofuryl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzotriazolyl benzoimidazolyl and indolyl. Particularly heteroaryls include 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl sodium salt 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 3 methyl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 hydroxy 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 carboxy 4 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl sodium salt 2 carboxy 4 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 1 3 oxazol 2 yl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 hydroxymethyl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 thiol 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 methylthio 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 amino 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 1 dimethylamino eth 2 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt 2 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 4 methyl 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl pyrid 2 yl N oxide 6 methoxy 2 n oxide pyridaz 3 yl 6 hydroxypyridaz 3 yl 1 methylpyrid 2 yl 1 methylpyrid 4 yl 2 hydroxypyrimid 4 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 5 6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 4 formylmethyl 5 6 dioxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy as triazin 3 yl sodium salt 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl sodium salt 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 methoxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 2 6 dimethyl as triazin 3 yl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl and 8 aminotetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl. An alternative group of heteroaryl includes 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl 4 carboxymethyl 5 methyl 1 3 thiazol 2 yl sodium salt 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 2 methyl 1 3 4 triazol 5 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 1 dimethylamino eth 2 yl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 carboxymethyl 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl 1 methylsulfonic acid 1H tetrazol 5 yl sodium salt 1 2 3 triazol 5 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 5 6 dioxo 4 methyl as triazin 3 yl 1 4 5 6 tetrahydro 4 2 formylmethyl 5 6 dioxo as triazin 3 yl 2 5 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl sodium salt 2 4 dihydro 5 oxo 6 hydroxy 2 methyl as triazin 3 yl tetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl and 8 aminotetrazolo 1 5 b pyridazin 6 yl.

For the avoidance of doubt aryl includes fused aryl which includes for example naphthyl indenyl and also include arylalkyl cycloalkyl includes fused cycloalkyl which includes for example tetrahydronaphthyl and indanyl heteroaryl includes fused heteroaryl which includes for example indoyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl and also includes cycloalkylalkyl heterocyclo includes fused heterocycloalkyl which includes for example indolinyl isoindolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl tetrahydroisoquinolinyl and also includes heterocycloalkylalkyl.

 Optionally substituted means that a H atom can be but is not necessarily replaced by one or more different atoms. One of skill in the art will readily know or can readily ascertain what atoms or moieties can be substituted for a hydrogen atom or atoms in a given position. Typical optional substituents are any one or more of hydroxy alkyl lower alkyl alkoxy lower alkoxy cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl halogen pseudohalogen haloalkyl pseudohaloalkyl carbonyl carboxyl mercapto amino nitro and thiocarbonyl but other moieties can also be optional substituents. So for example optionally substituted nitrogen can mean an amide sulfonamide urea carbamate alkylamines dialkylamines arylamines etc optionally substituted alkyl includes methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl t butyl etc. optionally substituted aryl includes phenyl benzyl tolyl pyridine naphthyl imidazole etc. Reference to a group as optionally substituted encompasses that group when it is substituted as described above or alternatively when it is unsubstituted. When optionally substituted is used in front of or at the end of a listing of chemical groups all such groups are optionally substituted unless otherwise indicated by context. 

A Linker is a bond or linking group whereby two chemical moieties are directly covalently linked one to the other or are indirectly linked via a chemical moiety that covalently links the two chemical moieties in either case to form a homo or heterodimer. A Linker L therefore is a single double or triple covalent bond or is a contiguous chain branched or unbranched substituted or unsubstituted of 1 to about 100 atoms typically 1 to about 20 atoms and typically up to about 500 MW e.g. alkyl alkylene alkylyne alkyloxyalkyl alkylarylalkyl or optionally substituted alkyl alkylene alkylyne alkyloxyalkyl alkylarylalkyl chain of 1 to 12 atoms. Illustrative Linkers are described e.g. in US 20050197403 as well as in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 363 387 filed Feb. 27 2006 both of which are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth.

 Pseudohalogens are binary inorganic compounds of the general form XY where X is a cyanide cyanate thiocyanate etc. group and Y is any of X or a true halogen. Not all combinations are known to be stable. Examples include cyanogen CN and iodine cyanide ICN. These anions behave as halogens and the presence of the internal double bonds or triple bonds do not appear to affect their chemical behavior.

 Inhibitor or antagonists means a compound which reduces or prevents the binding of IAP proteins to caspase proteins or which reduces or prevents the inhibition of apoptosis by an IAP protein or which binds to an IAP BIR domain in a manner similar to the amino terminal portion of Smac thereby freeing Smac to inhibit the action of an IAP.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salts include both acid and base addition salts. Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases and which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid carbonic acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids may be selected from aliphatic cycloaliphatic aromatic araliphatic heterocyclic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids such as formic acid acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid gluconic acid lactic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid malic acid maleic acid maloneic acid succinic acid fumaric acid tartaric acid citric acid aspartic acid ascorbic acid glutamic acid anthranilic acid benzoic acid cinnamic acid mandelic acid embonic acid phenylacetic acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid salicyclic acid and the like.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods are now described. All publications and references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

The terms mimetic peptide mimetic and peptidomimetic are used interchangeably herein and generally refer to a peptide partial peptide or non peptide molecule that mimics the tertiary binding structure or activity of a selected native peptide or protein functional domain e.g. binding motif or active site . These peptide mimetics include recombinantly or chemically modified peptides as well as non peptide agents such as small molecule drug mimetics as further described below.

As used herein the terms pharmaceutically acceptable physiologically tolerable and grammatical variations thereof as they refer to compositions carriers diluents and reagents are used interchangeably and represent that the materials can be administered to a human being.

As used herein subject or patient refers to an animal or mammal including but not limited to human dog cat horse cow pig sheep goat chicken monkey rabbit rat mouse etc.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition or disease of a patient. Embodiments of the present invention are directed to promote apoptosis and thus cell death.

The terms therapeutically effective amount or effective amount as used herein may be used interchangeably and refer to an amount of a therapeutic compound component of the present invention. For example a therapeutically effective amount of a therapeutic compound is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to effectively promote apoptosis preferably by eliminating an IAP inhibition of apoptosis more preferably by inhibiting an IAP binding to a caspase.

It has been demonstrated in accordance with the present invention that the IAP binding compounds of the present invention are capable of potentiating apoptosis of cells.

Optionally substituted 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl groups with at least one N or O atom in the ring that are useful in the practice of the invention include for example pyrrolidine piperidine perhydroazapine rings or monosaccharides or disaccharides each unit comprising three to six carbon atoms although longer chain polysaccharides can also be employed. These include for example trioses tetroses pentoses and hexoses such as glucose mannose fructose xylose erythrose fucose galactose etc. The sugars can be naturally occurring including D and L sugars or non naturally occurring sugars or derivatives thereof and can be the alpha or beta anomers. Heteroaryl groups with at least one N atom in the ring that are useful in the practice of the invention include for example pyridine pyrimidine or pyrazine.

Chemical procedures for synthesizing or derivatizing or modifying Smac mimetics by binding an optionally substituted 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group with at least one N or O atom in the ring or a heteroaryl group with at least one N atom in the ring thereto are known to person of skill in the art or can be determined without undue experimentation.

Ris H or optionally substituted hydroxy alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl and when R is H then Rand Rcan together form an aziridine or azetidine ring 

Rand R are each independently H or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl or when R is H then Rand Rcan together form an aziridine or azetidine ring 

Rand Rare each independently H or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl or Rand Rare each carbon and are linked by a covalent bond or by an optionally substituted alkylene or alkenylene group of 1 to 8 carbon atoms where one to three carbon atoms can be replaced by N O S O or C O 

Rand Rare each independently H or optionally substituted hydroxy alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl or Rand Rare each carbon and are linked by a covalent bond or by an optionally substituted alkylene or alkenylene group of 1 to 8 carbon atoms where one to three carbon atoms can be replaced by N O S O or C O 

G is a bond a heteroatom C O S O NR NCOR or NS O R where Ris lower alkyl optionally substituted lower alkyl or Ccycloalkyl 

Ris optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein Ris substituted with L Rand is optionally further substituted 

Ris an optionally substituted 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl group with at least one N or O atom in the ring or Ris a heteroaryl group with at least one N atom in the ring 

In illustrative embodiments of compounds of Formula I when Zis N and Zis CH then at least one of the following is true 

 iv Rand Rare both carbon atoms linked by a single covalent bond and Rand Rare both carbon atoms linked by a covalent bond or by an optionally substituted alkylene or alkenylene group of 1 to 8 carbon atoms where one to three carbon atoms can be replaced by N O S O or C O.

In illustrative embodiments of compounds of Formula I one or any two or more of the following limitations apply to compounds in which the preceding limitations on Rand Rapply or in which the preceding limitations on Rand Rdon t apply 

 1 M is optionally substituted C Calkylene alkenylene or alkynylene or M is C Calkylene optionally substituted with lower alkyl or M is C Calkylene excluding alkenylene and alkynylene optionally substituted with lower alkyl 

 5 Ris a tetrahydrofuranyl or tetrahydropyranyl moiety optionally substituted with hydroxy lower alkyl lower alkoxy or optionally substituted lower alkoxy selected from arylalkyloxy alkylcarbonyloxy arylcarbonyloxy acetyloxy or Ris an optionally substituted nitrogen containing 5 to 7 membered heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl group or Ris tetrahydrofuranyl or tetrahydropyranyl substituted with at least one hydroxy or acetyloxy group or Ris a 5 to 7 membered heteroaryl or heterocycloalkyl group having a single nitrogen atom in the ring and no additional heteroatoms

 6 Ris H methyl allyl propargyl ethyl cycloalkyl hydroxyethyl or cycloalkylmethyl or Ris H methyl allyl propargyl ethyl cycloalkyl hydroxy ethyl or cycloalkylmethyl 

 7 Rand R are independently H methyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl ethyl hydroxyethyl fluoroethyl and cycloalkyl or Rand R are independently H methyl fluoromethyl difluoromethyl ethyl hydroxyethyl fluoroethyl and cycloalkyl 

 8 Rand Rare independently H methyl ethyl isopropyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl optionally substituted with hydroxyl mercapto sulfonyl alkylsulfonyl halogen pseudohalogen amino carboxyl alkyl haloalkyl pseudohaloalkyl alkoxy or alkylthio or Rand Rare carbon atoms and are linked by a covalent bond or by an optionally substituted alkylene or alkenylene group of 1 to 3 carbon atoms of which 1 or more atoms can be replaced by N O S O or C O or Rand Rare linked by a covalent bond or by an optionally substituted alkylene or alkenylene group of 1 to 3 carbon atoms of which 1 or more atoms can be replaced by N O S O or C O 

 9 Rand Rare independently optionally substituted lower alkyl or C Ccycloalkyl wherein the optional substituents are hydroxy or lower alkoxy or Rand Rare carbon atoms and are linked by a covalent bond or by an optionally substituted alkylene or alkenylene group of 1 to 3 carbon atoms of which 1 or more atoms can be replaced by N O S O or C O 

When Y is C then R R R R R R and Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxy alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy heteroaryloxy acyl acetyl carboxylate sulfonate sulfone imine or oxime provided that when X is N or C O N L1 Ris bound to the N atom and when X is C C R or N C L1 Ris bound to the C atom and

When Y is N or N then R11 is absent or O and R R R R R and Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxyl alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy heteroaryloxy acyl acetyl carboxylate sulfonate sulfone imine or oxime provided that when X is N or C O N L Ris bound to the N atom and when X is C C R or N C L1 Ris bound to the C atom or

When Y is C then R R R R Rand Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxyl alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy or heteroaryloxy 

When Y is N then Ris absent and R R R Rand Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxyl alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy or heteroaryloxy 

When Y is N then Ris O and R R R Rand Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxyl alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy or heteroaryloxy 

When A is a single bond and Y is C then Ra Rb R R R R and Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxy alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy heteroaryloxy acyl acetyl carboxylate sulfonate sulfone imine or oxime 

When A is a single bond and Y is N or N then Ris absent or O and Ra Rb R R R and Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxy alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy heteroaryloxy acyl acetyl carboxylate sulfonate sulfone imine or oxime 

When A is a double bond and Y is C then Rb and Rare absent and Ra R R R and Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxy alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy heteroaryloxy acyl acetyl carboxylate sulfonate sulfone imine or oxime 

When A is a double bond and Y is N or N then Rb and Rare absent and Ris absent or O and Ra R R and Rare independently H halogen or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl heteroaryl hydroxyl alkoxy polyalkylether amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkoxyalkyl sulfonate aryloxy heteroaryloxy acyl acetyl or carboxylate sulfonate sulfone imine or oxime 

Specific illustrative compounds of formula I include those shown below as compounds A through U and HH through SS.

Ra and Rb are independently H or optionally substituted hydroxyl alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl and when Ra is H then Ra and Ra can together form an aziridine or azetidine ring and when Rb is H then Rb and Rb can together form an aziridine or azetidine ring 

Ra Ra Rb and Rb are independently H or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl or when Ra is H then Ra and Ra can together form an aziridine or azetidine ring and when Rb is H then Rb and Rb can together form an aziridine or azetidine ring 

Ra Rb Ra and Rb are independently H or optionally substituted alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl or Ra and Ra or Rb and Rb or both are carbon atoms linked by an optionally substituted alkylene or alkenylene group of 1 to 8 carbon atoms where one to three carbon atoms can be replaced by N O S O or C O 

Ra Ra Rb and Rb are independently H or optionally substituted hydroxyl alkyl cycloalkyl heterocycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl or Ra and Ra or Rb and Rb or both are carbon atoms linked by an optionally substituted alkylene or alkenylene group of 1 to 8 carbon atoms where one to three carbon atoms can be replaced by N O S O C O 

Xb is O N Lb Rb S optionally substituted C Lb Rb CH C O O C O N Lb Rb N C Lb Rb provided that if Xb is O S or C O O then Xa is N La Ra optionally substituted C La Ra CH C O N La Ra or N C La Ra and if Xa is O S or C O O then Xb is N Lb Rb optionally substituted C Lb Rb CH C O N Lb Rb or N C Lb Rb 

Ra and Rb are independently an optionally substituted 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl with at least one N or O atom in the ring or heteroaryl with at least one N atom in the ring provided that one but not both of Ra and Rb can optionally be H 

In illustrative embodiments Xa is N La Ra C La Ra or N C La Ra Xb is N La is a bond Ra is an optionally substituted 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl with at least one N or O atom in the ring or heteroaryl with at least one N atom in the ring and Lb is a bond and Rb is H.

Any one or any two or more of the above limitations can also apply to compounds having formula IV. Other limitations that can apply to dimeric IAP antagonists of the invention include 

Wa and Wb together are a covalent bond or optionally substituted alkylene cycloalkyl or aryl of 2 to 20 carbon atoms where one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with N O or S O and Xa and Xb are independently O S or C O O or Wa and Wb together form a single covalent bond and or

wherein R R and Rare independently lower alkyl lower alkoxy lower alkanol or C Ccycloalkyl Ris H or OH R R and Rare independently H or halogen and Ris an optionally substituted 5 6 or 7 membered heterocycloalkyl with at least one N or O atom in the ring or Ris heteroaryl with at least one N atom in the ring.

Following are illustrative schemes illustrating preparation of modified monomers and dimers. Using similar synthetic techniques the sugar modified Smac mimetics shown in Tables 1 and 2 below and the piperidine substituted Smac mimetics shown in Table 3 below were prepared.

The binding affinity of illustrative compounds of the present invention to an IAP was determined substantially as described by Nikolovska Coleska Z. et. al. Analytical Biochemistry 2004 vol. 332 261 273 using a variety of fluorogenic substrates and is reported as a Kd value. Briefly various concentrations of IAP antagonists were mixed with 5 nM fluorescently labeled peptide AbuRPF K 5 Fam NH and 40 nM of an IAP BIR3 for 15 min at RT in 100 mL of 0.1M Potassium Phosphate buffer pH 7.5 containing 100 mg ml bovine g globulin. Following incubation the polarization values mP were measured on a Victor2V using a 485 nm excitation filter and a 520 nm emission filter. IC50 values were determined from the plot using nonlinear least squares analysis using GraphPad Prism. The compounds described herein afford Kd values in the ranges of Kd10 M D .

Abbreviations used in the following preparations which are illustrative of synthesis of compounds of the invention generally are Cbz Benzyloxycarbonyl Boc tert butyloxycarbonyl THF tetrahydrofuran DCM dichloromethane DDQ 2 3 dichloro 5 6 dicyano 1 4 benzoquinone NMP N methylpyrrolidinone DMF dimethylformamide TFA trifluoroacetic acid HOAc or AcOH acetic acid Hex hexanes HPLC high performance liquid chromatography TLC thin layer chromatography EtOAc ethyl acetate DIPEA diisopropylethylamine TEA triethylamine HATU 2 7 Aza 1H benzotriazole 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate.

Preparation of Monomeric IAP Antagonists. Formula 13 Below. Referred to as Compound A in Table 1 Below. 

Indoline 2 A round bottom flask containing trifluoroacetic acid 60 mL was cooled to 0 C under nitrogen and triethylsilane 1.16 g 1.6 mL 9.96 mmol was added followed by the dropwise addition of indole 1 1.17 g 3.32 mmol prepared using a modification of the procedure reported by Macor et al. J. Med. Chem. 1992 35 4503 4505 in 9 mL dry dichloromethane added over 1 hour. Following complete addition the solution was stirred for 10 min. Thin layer chromatography 2 1 Hex EA indicated no remaining 1. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The organic layer was washed with saturated NaHCO 2 and brine. The EtOAc layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 2 1 hexane ethyl acetate afforded 2 as a yellow oil 0.79 g 67 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.34 7.31 m 5H 6.99 6.85 m 1H 6.34 6.27 m 2H 5.12 s 2H 4.13 3.71 m 2H 3.58 3.16 m 5H 2.05 1.87 m 4H 1.73 1.57 m 2H ppm.

A mixture of compound 2 0.79 g 2.23 mmol D Xylose 1.0 g 6.69 mmol and ammonium sulfate 0.88 g 6.69 mmol in ethanol 50 mL was heated at 75 C overnight. Thin layer chromatography 10 MeOH CHCl indicated no remaining 2. The reaction mixture was preabsorbed on to silica gel and purified by column chromatography on silica gel 2 MeOH CHClto 59 MeOH CHCl to afford compound 3 as a yellow solid 0.98 g 90 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.33 7.31 m 5H 6.91 t J 2.4 Hz 1H 6.39 6.27 m 2H 5.12 4.99 m 3H 4.62 4.45 m 1H 4.05 3.87 m 3H 3.79 3.56 m 4H 3.48 3.29 m 6H 2.29 1.92 m 4H 1.77 1.28 m 2H ppm.

To a solution of 3 0.98 g 2.01 mmol in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 30 mL was added 2 3 dichloro 5 6 dicyano 1 4 benzoquinone 0.55 g 2.42 mmol neat in one portion. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. Thin layer chromatography 10 MeOH CHCl indicated no remaining 3. The reaction mixture was filtered and the solid washed with EtOAc. The filtrate was washed with saturated NaHCO 4 brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 2 MeOH CHClto 5 MeOH CHCl afforded 4 as a white solid 0.792 g 81 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.49 7.44 m 1H 7.34 7.29 m 5H 7.18 7.02 m 1H 6.86 t J 3.0 Hz 1H 6.73 6.67 m 1H 5.10 5.01 m 2H 4.90 4.88 m 2H 4.33 4.18 m 2H 4.06 3.59 m 6H 3.41 3.06 m 3H 2.92 2.55 m 3H 1.94 1.25 m 2H ppm.

To a solution of 4 0.79 g 1.63 mmol in pyridine 8 mL was added acetic anhydride 1.66 g 1.54 mL 16.3 mmol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. Thin layer chromatography 1 1 Hex EA indicated no remaining 4. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with 1M HCl 3 water saturated NaHCO brine dried over NaSOfiltered and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 1 1 Hex EtOAc afforded 5 as a foamy solid 0.86 g 86 . H NMR CDCl MHz 7.72 t J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.45 7.36 m 5H 7.11 6.86 m 2H 6.61 t J 3.0 Hz 1H 5.42 5.36 m 3H 5.25 5.17 m 3H 4.29 4.23 m 1H 4.16 4.09 m 1H 3.59 3.10 m 4H 2.66 2.49 m 1H 2.08 s 3H 2.05 s 3H 1.88 1.61 m 6H ppm.

A mixture of 5 0.20 g 0.327 mmol and potassium acetate 0.096 g 0.981 mmol in chloroform 10 mL was cooled to 0 C and a solution of bromine 0.063 g 0.02 mL 0.393 mmol in chloroform 1 mL was added dropwise via syringe. The reaction was stirred at 0 C for 20 min. Thin layer chromatography 1 1 Hex EA indicated no remaining 5. The reaction was diluted with brine and dichloromethane. The layers were separated and the organics were washed with saturated NaSO brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 1 1 Hex EtOAc afforded 6 as a foamy solid 0.206 g 91 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.69 m 1H 7.46 7.35 m 5H 6.91 t J 3.0 Hz 1H 6.61 t J 3.0 Hz 1H 5.58 5.39 m 3H 5.26 5.08 m 3H 4.37 4.32 m 1H 4.19 4.09 m 1H 3.61 3.07 m 4H 2.71 2.55 m 1H 2.09 s 3H 2.05 s 3H 1.96 1.51 m 6H ppm.

A mixture of 6 0.21 g 0.297 mmol potassium carbonate 0.14 g 1.04 mmol and 4 fluorobenzeneboronic acid 0.054 g 0.386 mmol in toluene 12 mL and ethanol 6 mL was degassed by pulling a vacuum until bubbling occurred. Added next was tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 0.017 g 0.015 mmol and the mixture was degassed again placed in an oil bath preheated at 90 C and stirred for 3 hours. Thin layer chromatography 2 1 Hex EA indicated no remaining 6. The reaction was cooled to room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with 1 M HCl brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 2 1 Hex EtOAc afforded 7 as a yellow solid 0.048 g 23 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.88 7.75 m 1H 7.40 7.19 m 9H 7.01 6.91 m 1H 6.65 t J 3.1 Hz 1H 5.61 5.41 m 3H 5.29 4.93 m 3H 4.37 4.32 m 1H 4.13 4.05 m 1H 3.56 3.35 m 4H 2.77 2.49 m 1H 2.09 s 3H 2.04 s 3H 1.76 1.39 m 6H ppm.

A mixture of 7 0.090 g 0.128 mmol and 10 palladium on activated carbon 0.020 mg 20 wt in methanol 8 mL was shaken under a hydrogen atmosphere at 45 psi on a Parr hydrogenator for 2 hours. Thin layer chromatography 10 MeOH CHCl indicated no remaining 7. The mixture was filtered through a 0.45 uM filtering disk and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated and dried under high vacuum to give 8 as a white solid 0.049 g 67 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.55 7.47 m 1H 7.32 7.27 m 2H 7.23 7.17 m 3H 6.94 t J 3.0 Hz 1H 5.66 m 1H 5.17 5.11 m 2H 4.27 m 1H 3.39 3.22 m 2H 3.01 2.87 m 1H 2.76 2.65 m 1H 2.05 s 3H 1.99 s 3H 1.72 1.47 m 6H ppm.

A solution of CBZ L tert leucine dicyclohexylamine salt 0.057 g 0.129 mmol and HATU 0.049 g 0.129 mmol in dry 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone NMP 2 mL was cooled to 0 C and diisopropylethyl amine 0.022 g 0.03 mL 0.172 mmol was added. After stirring for 15 min a solution of 8 0.049 g 0.086 mmol in NMP 2 mL was added and the reaction was stirred at 0 C for 2 hours followed by room temperature for 1 hour. Thin layer chromatography 2 1 Hex EA indicated no remaining 8. The reaction was diluted with ether and washed with 1 M HCl water saturated NaHCO brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. Purification by column chromatography on silica gel 2 1 Hex EtOAc afforded 9 as a foamy solid 0.041 g 58 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.74 d J 1.3 Hz 1H 8.43 dd J 0.04 1.8 Hz 1H 8.03 7.98 m 1H 7.47 7.43 m 1H 7.39 7.35 m 8H 7.02 6.97 m 1H 5.62 5.59 m 1H 5.42 5.36 m 1H 5.20 5.06 m 4H 4.33 4.29 m 1H 3.61 3.29 m 2H 2.09 1.98 m 3H 1.75 1.69 m 2H 1.56 m 6H 1.25 1.21 m 6H 1.04 0.97 m 6H ppm.

A mixture of 9 0.041 g 0.050 mmol and 10 palladium on activated carbon 0.010 mg 20 wt 9 in methanol 8 mL was shaken under a hydrogen atmosphere at 45 psi on a Parr hydrogenation apparatus for 2 hours. Thin layer chromatography 10 MeOH CHCl indicated no remaining 9. The mixture was filtered through a 0.45 M filtering disk and washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated and dried under high vacuum to give 10 as a white solid 0.034 g 99 . Mass spectrum m z 684 M H .

A solution of Cbz N methyl L alanine 0.018 g 0.074 mmol and HATU 0.028 g 0.074 mmol in dry 1 methyl 2 pyrrolidinone NMP 1 mL was cooled to 0 C and diisopropylethyl amine 0.012 g 0.02 mL 0.099 mmol was added. After stirring for 15 min a solution of 10 0.034 g 0.0497 mmol in NMP 2 mL was added and the reaction was stirred at 0 C for 2 hours followed by room temperature for 1 hour. Thin layer chromatography 1 1 Hex EA indicated no remaining 10. The reaction was diluted with ether and washed with 1 M HCl water saturated NaHCO brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 11 as a foamy solid 0.044 g 98 crude . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 8.06 7.97 m 1H 7.39 7.33 m 9H 7.27 7.22 m 1H 7.01 6.96 m 1H 5.65 m 1H 5.20 5.10 m 4H 5.05 5.00 m 2H 3.94 3.89 m 1H 3.65 3.59 m 1H 2.88 2.80 m 6H 2.08 1.98 m 6H 1.37 1.23 m 6H 1.04 0.97 m 6H 1.05 0.90 m 1H ppm.

A solution of 11 0.044 g 0.049 mmol in methanol 2 mL was cooled to 0 C and 1M sodium hydroxide 0.16 mL 0.16 mmol was added. The reaction was stirred for 45 minutes. Thin layer chromatography 10 MeOH CHCl indicated no remaining 11. The reaction was diluted with brine and saturated ammonium chloride solution and extracted with ethyl acetate 3 . The organic phase was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product 12 0.037 g was taken on without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 777.8 M H .

A mixture of 12 0.037 g 0.049 mmol and lot palladium on activated carbon 0.010 mg 20 wt t in methanol 8 mL was shaken under a hydrogen atmosphere at 45 psi on a Parr hydrogenation apparatus for 1.5 h. Thin layer chromatography 10 MeOH CHCl indicated no remaining 12. The mixture was filtered through a 0.45 M filtering disk and washed with MeOH. Purification by reverse phase HPLC and lypholization gave 13 as the monoacetate salt 0.0107 g 34 . H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.99 7.95 m 1H 7.43 7.31 m 3H 7.24 7.18 m 1H 7.01 6.94 m 1H 4.85 4.82 m 1H 4.45 m 1H 4.12 m 2H 3.39 3.37 m 3H 3.32 3.20 m 4H 2.41 2.28 m 4H 2.03 br s 4H 1.70 m 1H 1.51 m 2H 1.37 1.27 m 3H 1.05 0.98 m 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 643.6 M H .

Preparation of a Dimeric IAP Antagonist Formula 23 Below. Referred to as Compound V in Table 2 Below. 

Indoylindoline 14 Fluoroindole 1 3.55 g 10.0 mmol was dissolved in trifluoroacetic acid 15 mL at 0 C. After 3 h the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc. The EtOAc solution was washed twice with saturated aqueous NaHCOand once with brine. The combined aqueous washes were twice back extracted with EtOAc and the combined organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSOfiltered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography hexane EtOAc 2 1 to afford 2.48 g of 2 as a foamy solid. Mass spectrum m z 705.1 M H .

Carbohydrate linked indoylindoline 15 A mixture of 14 1.24 g 1.76 mmol L fucose 0.87 g 5.27 mmol and powdered NH SO 0.70 g 5.27 mmol in absolute EtOH 25 mL was heated at 75 C. for 24 h. The reaction mixture was absorbed onto silica gel and the product was eluted using 2 5 MeOH in DCM. The fractions containing the two diastereomeric products TLC analysis 10 MeOH DCM R 14 0.8 R 15 0.4 and 0.5 were combined and concentrated to provide 0.89 g of 15 which was used directly in the next reaction. Mass spectrum m z 851.2 M H .

Carbohydrate linked biindole 16 At ambient temperature DDQ 0.28 g 1.25 mmol was added to a solution of 15 0.89 g 1.04 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 10 mL . After 1 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed three times with 0.5 M NaOH once with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford crude 16 which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 849.2 M H .

Peracetylated intermediate 17 To a solution of crude 16 1.04 mmol in anhydrous pyridine 10 mL was added AcO 1.07 g 10.4 mmol at ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and washed three times with 1N HCl once with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography EtOAc hexane 1 1 to afford 0.82 g of 17 as a solid. Mass spectrum m z 975.2 M .

Bis pyrrolidine 18 A mixture of 17 0.82 g 0.84 mmol and 10 Pd on C 0.16 g 20 wt in MeOH 20 mL was placed on a Parr apparatus and shaken under 50 PSI Hatmosphere. After 2 h the reaction mixture was filtered using a 0.45 filter disc which was subsequently washed with excess MeOH. The clarified filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield 0.57 g of crude 18 which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 354.6 M 2H 2 .

Cbz Valine linked intermediate 19 A solution containing Cbz L Val OH 0.47 g 1.87 mmol and HATU 0.67 g 1.77 mmol in anhydrous NMP 5 mL was cooled to 0 C. DIPEA 0.28 g 2.18 mmol was added via syringe followed by the addition of 18 0.57 g 0.81 mmol in NMP 5 mL . The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature and the reaction was maintained for 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed successively with 1N HCl water excess saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by flash silica gel chromatography 2 MeOH DCM to provide 0.76 g of 19 as a foamy solid. Mass spectrum m z 1174.4 M H .

Diamine 20 A mixture of 19 0.76 g 0.65 mmol and 10 Pd on C 0.15 g 20 wt t in MeOH 15 mL was placed on a Parr apparatus and shaken under 50 PSI Hatmosphere. After 3 h the reaction mixture was filtered using a 0.45 filter disc which was subsequently washed with excess MeOH. The clarified filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield 0.57 g of crude 20 which was used without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 452.8 M 2H 2 .

Bis Cbz N Me Ala intermediate 21 A solution containing Cbz L N Me Ala OH 0.28 g 1.18 mmol and HATU 0.43 g 1.13 mmol in anhydrous NMP 4 mL was cooled to 0 C. DIPEA 0.18 g 1.38 mmol was added via syringe followed by the addition of 20 0.47 g 0.51 mmol in NMP 4 mL . The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to ambient temperature and the reaction was maintained for about 16 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether and washed successively with 1N HCl water excess saturated aqueous NaHCO and brine. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to provide 0.69 g of crude 21 as a solid. Mass spectrum m z 1343.4 M .

Hydroxylated pyranose 22 To a solution of 21 0.69 g 0.51 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was added 1N NaOH 1.7 mL 1.7 mmol at 0 C. After 2 h the reaction mixture was diluted with saturated aqueous NHCl and brine and the product was extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic extracts were dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 0.62 g of crude 22 which was used without further purification.

Dimeric IAP Antagonist 23 A mixture of 22 0.62 g 0.51 mmol and 10 Pd on C 0.15 g 20 wt in MeOH 20 mL was placed on a Parr apparatus and shaken under 50 PSI Hatmosphere. After 4 h the reaction mixture was filtered using a 0.45 filter disc which was subsequently washed with excess MeOH. The clarified filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by reverse phase HPLC 2 Dynamax C18 column Flow rate 40 mL min Detector 254 nm Method 10 50 ACN water containing 0.1 HOAc over 25 min . The product containing fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuo to remove excess ACN then lyophilized to dryness to provide 0.23 g of 23.2HOAc as a flocculent white solid. Mass spectrum m z 475.8 M 2H 2 .

Preparation of Smac Mimetic Piperidine Substituted Monomer Formula 30 Below. Referred to as Compound HH in Table 3 Below. 

N Alkylated indoline 24 To a solution containing indoline 2 4.6 g 13.0 mmol in glacial HOAc 40 mL was added 4 BOC piperidone 2.85 g 14.3 mmol . After 10 min Na AcO BH 4.13 g 19.5 mmol was added in small portions over 40 min maintaining the temperature below 30 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was diluted with water and EtOAc. Aqueous NaOH 1M was added and the layers were separated. The organic phase was washed with 1M NaOH until pH 12 then washed with brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford crude 24 quant. as an oil which was used without further purification. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.35 7.35 m 5H 6.92 6.78 m 1H 6.25 6.18 m 1H 6.09 6.06 m 1H 5.12 5.09 m 2H 4.22 br 2H 3.87 3.70 m 1H 3.55 3.41 m 3H 3.21 3.02 m 3H 2.75 2.72 br 2H 1.98 1.60 m 8H 1.49 1.46 m 9H ppm.

Indole 25 To a solution containing crude indoline 24 7.46 g 13 mmol in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 75 mL was added 2 3 dichloro 5 6 dicyanobenzoquinone 3.78 g 16.6 mmol in small portions. After 2 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc and filtered through Celite . The pad was washed with EtOAc and the filtrate was washed with saturated aqueous NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The product was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography 2 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 3.81 g 51 indole 25. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1 1 mixture of carbamate rotomers 7.71 7.67 m 0.5H 7.43 7.38 m 5H 7.18 7.14 m 0.5H 6.99 6.82 m 2.5H 6.61 t J 2.9 Hz 0.5H 5.19 s 2H 4.30 4.08 m 2H 3.74 3.70 m 0.5H 3.46 3.39 m 2H 3.29 d J 4.3 Hz 0.5H 3.13 d J 4.4 Hz 0.5H 2.88 br m 2H 2.72 2.54 m 1H 2.44 t J 2.0 Hz 0.5H 2.00 br 1H 1.85 1.67 m 6H 1.49 s 9H ppm.

Bromoindole 26 A solution containing indole 25 3.81 g 7.12 mmol in CHCl 100 mL was cooled to 0 C. and KOAc 2.1 g 21.4 mmol was added followed by the dropwise addition of a solution of bromine 1.36 g 8.54 mmol in CHCl 5 mL . After 1 h the reaction mixture was diluted with brine and DCM. The layers were separated and the organic phase was washed with saturated aqueous NaSO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The product was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography 2 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 2.78 g 64 of bromoindole 26 as a yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1 1 mixture of carbamate rotomers 7.76 7.71 m 0.5H 7.45 7.32 m 5H 7.13 7.06 m 1.5H 6.86 t J 2.6 Hz 0.5H 6.56 t J 2.9 Hz 0.5H 5.22 5.18 m 2H 4.59 4.55 br 1H 4.32 4.23 br 2H 3.59 3.34 m 2H 3.29 dd J 4.6 1.0 Hz 0.5H 3.07 dd J 4.6 1.2 Hz 0.5H 2.86 br 2H 2.74 2.61 m 1H 2.41 br 2H 1.76 1.65 m 5H 1.52 s 9H ppm.

2 Substituted indole 27 A mixture containing bromoindole 26 2.78 g 4.52 mmol KCO 2.19 g 11.3 mmol and 4 fluorobenzeneboronic acid 0.82 g 5.88 mmol in toluene 21 mL and EtOH 7 mL was degassed under vacuum. After the addition of PhP Pd 0 0.26 g 0.23 mmol the mixture was degassed again and placed in an oil bath preheated at 90 C. After 2.5 h the reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and diluted with EtOAc washed with 1M HCl brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The product was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography 2 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 2.46 g 86 of indole 27 as a yellow solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 1 1 mixture of carbamate rotomers 7.88 7.84 m 0.5H 7.38 7.14 m 10.5H 6.94 6.87 m 0.5H 6.64 6.59 m 0.5H 5.21 4.97 m 2H 4.19 3.95 m 2H 3.30 3.25 m 2H 3.03 dd J 4.6 Hz 1.3 Hz 0.5H 2.82 br 0.5H 2.61 2.57 m 2H 2.44 2.28 m 4H 1.83 1.74 m 1H 1.62 1.58 m 2H 1.52 1.46 m 9H 1.41 1.37 m 2H ppm.

Cbz protected amine 28 A mixture containing indole 27 2.46 g 3.91 mmol and 10 Pd C 480 mg 20 wt in MeOH 25 mL was shaken under a hydrogen atmosphere 50 psi using a Parr apparatus. After 5 h the reaction mixture was filtered through Celite and the pad was washed with MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated and the residue was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography 2 to 20 MeOH DCM to afford 550 mg of intermediate amine. Mass spectrum m z 495.6 M .

A solution containing Cbz L tert leucine dicyclohexylamine salt 644 mg 1.44 mmol and HATU 548 mg 1.44 mmol in NMP 7 mL was cooled to 0 C. and DIPEA 0.29 g 2.22 mmol was added. After 15 min a solution containing the previously prepared intermediate amine 550 mg 1.11 mmol in NMP 5 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred to ambient temperature. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with diethyl ether washed with 1M HCl water saturated aqueous NaHCO water and brine. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The product was purified by flash silica gel column chromatography 1 1 hexane EtOAc to afford 111 mg 13 of amide 28 as a foam. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 8.03 7.99 m 1H 7.34 7.12 m 10H 7.02 6.91 m 1H 5.62 5.58 m 1H 5.16 5.02 m 2H 4.49 4.47 m 1H 4.32 4.08 m 2H 3.99 3.94 m 1H 3.61 3.43 m 1H 3.31 3.27 m 1H 2.59 br 1H 2.41 2.17 m 2H 1.88 1.84 m 1H 1.57 m 5H 1.49 s 9H 1.31 1.19 m 4H 1.01 0.95 m 9H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 743.7 M H .

Boc protected peptide 29 A mixture of amide 28 110 mg 0.15 mmol and 10 Pd C 30 mg 20 wt in MeOH 10 mL was shaken under a hydrogen atmosphere at 45 psi using a Parr apparatus. After 2 h the reaction mixture was filtered through a 0.45 mM filter disc which was rinsed with excess MeOH. The filtrate was concentrated to afford 69 mg of intermediate amine. Mass spectrum m z 608.7 M .

A solution containing Boc N Me Ala OH 35 mg 0.17 mmol and HATU 65 mg 0.17 mmol in NMP 2 mL was cooled to 0 C. and DIPEA 0.029 g 0.23 mmol was added. After 15 min a solution containing the previously prepared intermediate amine 69 mg 0.11 mmol in NMP 3 mL was added. The reaction was stirred to ambient temperature over 2 h then diluted with diethyl ether and washed successively with 1M HCl water saturated aqueous NaHCO water and brine. The organic phase was dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated to afford 105 mg of crude Boc peptide 29 as a foam which was used directly without further purification. Mass spectrum m z 793.9 M .

Dipeptide 30 To a solution containing Boc peptide 29 100 mg 0.13 mmol in DCM 10 mL was added TFA 12 mL at 0 C. After 1 h the solvent was removed in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in EtOAc washed successively with saturated aqueous NaHCO brine dried over anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The crude product was purified by C18 reverse phase HPLC 10 to 70 ACN water containing 0.1 v v HOAc . Lyophilization of the product containing fractions afforded 28 mg 38 of dipeptide 30 as a white solid. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 8.03 7.98 m 1H 7.86 7.69 m 2H 7.59 7.46 m 1H 7.28 7.17 m 5H 7.05 6.91 m 1H 4.94 4.77 br m 5H 4.59 d J 3.2 Hz 1H 4.49 4.46 m 1H 3.97 br m 2H 3.72 3.20 m 3H 2.13 3.05 m 1H 2.89 2.62 m 3H 2.40 2.18 m 2H 2.08 1.94 m 3H 1.08 0.95 m 10H ppm. Mass spectrum m z 593.7 M .

In mammalian cells activation of the caspases is achieved through at least two independent mechanisms which are initiated by distinct caspases but result in the activation of common executioner effector caspases. In addition to the cytochrome c activated mechanism sometimes referred to as the intrinsic death pathway is a mechanism by which the caspase cascade is activated via activation of a death receptor located on the cell membrane sometimes referred to as the extrinsic death pathway . Examples of death receptors include CD 95 and TNF R1 as well as other members of the TNF group of cytokine receptors . The corresponding ligands are CD 95L and TNF alpha respectfully. Binding of pro caspase 8 to the death receptor induces auto activation wherein the inhibitory pro domain of pro caspase 8 is cleaved and removed. Caspase 8 is released from the receptor and can then activate effector caspases caspase 3 6 7 and as in the caspase 9 initiated pathway the result is the proteolytic cleavage of cellular targets by the effector caspases and the induction of apoptosis.

The present invention is directed generally to Smac peptidomimetics and the uses of Smac peptidomimetics. In one embodiment the Smac peptidomimetics act as chemopotentiating agents. The term chemopotentiating agent refers to an agent that acts to increase the sensitivity of an organism tissue or cell to a chemical compound or treatment namely chemotherapeutic agents or chemo drugs or radiation treatment. One embodiment of the invention is the therapeutic composition of a Smac peptidomimetic. A further embodiment of the invention is the therapeutic composition of a Smac peptidomimetic which can act as a chemopotentiating agent herein referred to as Smac mimetic and a biological or chemotherapeutic agent or radiation. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of inhibiting tumor growth in vivo by administering a Smac peptidomimetic. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of inhibiting tumor growth in vivo by administering a Smac mimetic and a biologic or chemotherapeutic agent or chemoradiation. Another embodiment of the invention is a method of treating a patient with a cancer by administering Smac mimetics of the present invention alone or in combination with a chemotherapeutic agent or chemoradiation.

In an embodiment of the present invention the cells are in situ in an individual and the contacting step is effected by administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the Smac mimetic wherein the individual may be subject to concurrent or antecedent radiation or chemotherapy for treatment of a neoproliferative pathology. The pathogenic cells are of a tumor such as but not limited to bladder cancer breast cancer prostate cancer lung cancer pancreatic cancer gastric cancer colon cancer ovarian cancer renal cancer hepatoma melanoma lymphoma sarcoma and combinations thereof.

As described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 244 851 IAP antagonists can be used for the treatment of all cancer types which fail to undergo apoptosis. Examples of such cancer types include neuroblastoma intestine carcinoma such as rectum carcinoma colon carcinoma familiary adenomatous polyposis carcinoma and hereditary non polyposis colorectal cancer esophageal carcinoma labial carcinoma larynx carcinoma hypopharynx carcinoma tong carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma gastric carcinoma adenocarcinoma medullary thyroidea carcinoma papillary thyroidea carcinoma renal carcinoma kidney parenchym carcinoma ovarian carcinoma cervix carcinoma uterine corpus carcinoma endometrium carcinoma chorion carcinoma pancreatic carcinoma prostate carcinoma testis carcinoma breast carcinoma urinary carcinoma melanoma brain tumors such as glioblastoma astrocytoma meningioma medulloblastoma and peripheral neuroectodermal tumors Hodgkin lymphoma non Hodgkin lymphoma Burkitt lymphoma acute lymphatic leukemia ALL chronic lymphatic leukemia CLL acute myeloid leukemia AML chronic myeloid leukemia CML adult T cell leukemia lymphoma hepatocellular carcinoma gall bladder carcinoma bronchial carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma multiple myeloma basalioma teratoma retinoblastoma choroidea melanoma seminoma rhabdomyo sarcoma craniopharyngeoma osteosarcoma chondrosarcoma myosarcoma liposarcoma fibrosarcoma Ewing sarcoma and plasmocytoma.

In addition to apoptosis defects found in tumors defects in the ability to eliminate self reactive cells of the immune system due to apoptosis resistance are considered to play a key role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. Autoimmune diseases are characterized in that the cells of the immune system produce antibodies against its own organs and molecules or directly attack tissues resulting in the destruction of the latter. A failure of those self reactive cells to undergo apoptosis leads to the manifestation of the disease. Defects in apoptosis regulation have been identified in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erthematosus or rheumatoid arthritis.

In an embodiment the pathogenic cells are those of any autoimmune disease or diseases which are resistant to apoptosis due to the expression of IAPs or members of the Bcl 2 family Examples of such autoimmune diseases are collagen diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus Sharp s syndrome CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s syndrome esophageal dysmotility telangiectasia dermatomyositis vasculitis Morbus Wegener s and Sj gren s syndrome renal diseases such as Goodpasture s syndrome rapidly progressing glomerulonephritis and membrano proliferative glomerulonephritis type II endocrine diseases such as type I diabetes autoimmune polyendocrinopathy candidiasis ectodermal dystrophy APECED autoimmune parathyroidism pernicious anemia gonad insufficiency idiopathic Morbus Addison s hyperthyreosis Hashimoto s thyroiditis and primary myxedema skin diseases such as pemphigus vulgaris bullous pemphigoid herpes gestationis epidermolysis bullosa and erythema multiforme major liver diseases such as primary biliary cirrhosis autoimmune cholangitis autoimmune hepatitis type 1 autoimmune hepatitis type 2 primary sclerosing cholangitis neuronal diseases such as multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis myasthenic Lambert Eaton syndrome acquired neuromyotony Guillain Barr syndrome M ller Fischer syndrome stiff man syndrome cerebellar degeneration ataxia opsoklonus sensoric neuropathy and achalasia blood diseases such as autoimmune hemolytic anemia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura Morbus Werlhof infectious diseases with associated autoimmune reactions such as AIDS Malaria and Chagas disease.

The subject compositions encompass pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac mimetic in dosage form and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the Smac mimetic inhibits the activity of an Inhibitor of Apoptosis protein TAP thus promoting apoptosis. Another embodiment of the present invention are compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac mimetic in dosage form and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in combination with a chemotherapeutic and or radiotherapy wherein the Smac mimetic inhibits the activity of an Inhibitor of Apoptosis protein IAP thus promoting apoptosis and enhancing the effectiveness of the chemotherapeutic and or radiotherapy.

In an embodiment of the invention a therapeutic composition for promoting apoptosis can be a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac peptidomimetic which binds to at least one IAP. In one embodiment the IAP can be XIAP. In another embodiment the IAP can be ML IAP. In another embodiment the IAP can cIAP 1 or cIAP 2. In a further embodiment the IAP can be multiple IAP types.

Embodiments of the invention also include a method of treating a patient with a condition in need thereof wherein administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac peptidomimetic is delivered to the patient and the Smac peptidomimetic binds to at least one IAP. In one embodiment the IAP can be XIAP. In another embodiment the IAP can be ML IAP. In another embodiment the IAP can cIAP 1 or cIAP 2. In a further embodiment the SAP can be multiple IAP types. The method may further include the concurrent administration of another chemotherapeutic agent. The chemotherapeutic agent can be but is not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites anti tumor antibiotics taxanes hormonal agents monoclonal antibodies glucocorticoids mitotic inhibitors topoisomerase I inhibitors topoisomerase II inhibitors immunomodulating agents cellular growth factors cytokines and nonsteroidal anti inflammatory compounds.

Administration of Smac peptidomimetics The Smac peptidomimetics can be administered in effective amounts. An effective amount is that amount of a preparation that alone or together with further doses produces the desired response. This may involve only slowing the progression of the disease temporarily although preferably it involves halting the progression of the disease permanently or delaying the onset of or preventing the disease or condition from occurring. This can be monitored by routine methods. Generally doses of active compounds would be from about 0.01 mg kg per day to 1000 mg kg per day. It is expected that doses ranging from 50 500 mg kg will be suitable preferably intravenously intramuscularly or intradermally and in one or several administrations per day. The administration of the Smac peptidomimetic can occur simultaneous with subsequent to or prior to chemotherapy or radiation so long as the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation sensitizes the system to the Smac peptidomimetic.

In general routine experimentation in clinical trials will determine specific ranges for optimal therapeutic effect for each therapeutic agent and each administrative protocol and administration to specific patients will be adjusted to within effective and safe ranges depending on the patient condition and responsiveness to initial administrations. However the ultimate administration protocol will be regulated according to the judgment of the attending clinician considering such factors as age condition and size of the patient the Smac peptidomimetic potencies the duration of the treatment and the severity of the disease being treated. For example a dosage regimen of the Smac peptidomimetic can be oral administration of from 1 mg to 2000 mg day preferably 1 to 1000 mg day more preferably 50 to 600 mg day in two to four preferably two divided doses to reduce tumor growth. Intermittent therapy e.g. one week out of three weeks or three out of four weeks may also be used.

In the event that a response in a subject is insufficient at the initial doses applied higher doses or effectively higher doses by a different more localized delivery route may be employed to the extent that the patient tolerance permits. Multiple doses per day are contemplated to achieve appropriate systemic levels of compounds. Generally a maximum dose is used that is the highest safe dose according to sound medical judgment. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand however that a patient may insist upon a lower dose or tolerable dose for medical reasons psychological reasons or for virtually any other reason.

Embodiments of the invention also include a method of treating a patient with cancer by promoting apoptosis wherein administration of a therapeutically effective amount of a Smac peptidomimetic and the Smac peptidomimetic binds to at least one IAP. In one embodiment the IAP can be XIAP. In another embodiment the IAP can be ML IAP. In another embodiment the IAP can cIAP 1 or cIAP 2. In a further embodiment the IAP can be multiple IAP types. The method may further include concurrent administration of a chemotherapeutic agent. The chemotherapeutic agent can be but is not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites anti tumor antibiotics taxanes hormonal agents monoclonal antibodies glucocorticoids mitotic inhibitors topoisomerase I inhibitors topoisomerase II inhibitors immunomodulating agents cellular growth factors cytokines and nonsteroidal anti inflammatory compounds.

Routes of administration A variety of administration routes are available. The particular mode selected will depend of course upon the particular chemotherapeutic drug selected the severity of the condition being treated and the dosage required for therapeutic efficacy. The methods of the invention generally speaking may be practiced using any mode of administration that is medically acceptable meaning any mode that produces effective levels of the active compounds without causing clinically unacceptable adverse effects. Such modes of administration include but are not limited to oral rectal topical nasal intradermal inhalation intra peritoneal or parenteral routes. The term parenteral includes subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular or infusion. Intravenous or intramuscular routes are particularly suitable for purposes of the present invention.

In one aspect of the invention a Smac peptidomimetic as described herein with or without additional biological or chemotherapeutic agents or radiotherapy does not adversely affect normal tissues while sensitizing tumor cells to the additional chemotherapeutic radiation protocols. While not wishing to be bound by theory it would appear that because of this tumor specific induced apoptosis marked and adverse side effects such as inappropriate vasodilation or shock are minimized. Preferably the composition or method is designed to allow sensitization of the cell or tumor to the chemotherapeutic or radiation therapy by administering at least a portion of the Smac peptidomimetic prior to chemotherapeutic or radiation therapy. The radiation therapy and or inclusion of chemotherapeutic agents may be included as part of the therapeutic regimen to further potentiate the tumor cell killing by the Smac peptidomimetic.

Pharmaceutical compositions In one embodiment of the invention an additional chemotherapeutic agent infra or radiation may be added prior to along with or following the Smac peptidomimetic. The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means one or more compatible solid or liquid fillers diluents or encapsulating substances which are suitable for administration into a human. The term carrier denotes an organic or inorganic ingredient natural or synthetic with which the active ingredient is combined to facilitate the application. The components of the pharmaceutical compositions also are capable of being co mingled with the molecules of the present invention and with each other in a manner such that there is no interaction which would substantially impair the desired pharmaceutical efficacy.

The delivery systems of the invention are designed to include time released delayed release or sustained release delivery systems such that the delivering of the Smac peptidomimetic occurs prior to and with sufficient time to cause sensitization of the site to be treated. A Smac peptidomimetic may be used in conjunction with radiation and or additional anti cancer chemical agents infra . Such systems can avoid repeated administrations of the Smac peptidomimetic compound increasing convenience to the subject and the physician and may be particularly suitable for certain compositions of the present invention.

Many types of release delivery systems are available and known to those of ordinary skill in the art. They include polymer base systems such as poly lactide glycolide copolyoxalates polycaprolactones polyesteramides polyorthoesters polyhydroxybutyric acid and polyanhydrides. Microcapsules of the foregoing polymers containing drugs are described in for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 109. Delivery systems also include non polymer systems that are lipids including sterols such as cholesterol cholesterol esters and fatty acids or neutral fats such as mono di and tri glycerides hydrogel release systems sylastic systems peptide based systems wax coatings compressed tablets using conventional binders and excipients partially fused implants and the like. Specific examples include but are not limited to a erosional systems in which the active compound is contained in a form within a matrix such as those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 452 775 4 667 014 4 748 034 and 5 239 660 and b diffusional systems in which an active component permeates at a controlled rate from a polymer such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 832 253 and 3 854 480. In addition pump based hardware delivery systems can be used some of which are adapted for implantation.

Use of a long term sustained release implant may be desirable. Long term release are used herein means that the implant is constructed and arranged to deliver therapeutic levels of the active ingredient for at least 30 days and preferably 60 days. Long term sustained release implants are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and include some of the release systems described above.

The pharmaceutical compositions may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. All methods include the step of bringing the active agent into association with a carrier that constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the compositions are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing the active compound into association with a liquid carrier a finely divided solid carrier or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Compositions suitable for parenteral administration conveniently comprise a sterile aqueous preparation of a chemopotentiating agent e.g. Smac peptidomimetic which is preferably isotonic with the blood of the recipient. This aqueous preparation may be formulated according to known methods using suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation also may be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent for example as a solution in 1 3 butane diol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or di glycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may be used in the preparation of injectables. Carrier formulation suitable for oral subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular etc. administrations can be found in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference thereto.

Additional chemotherapeutic agents Chemotherapeutic agents suitable include but are not limited to the chemotherapeutic agents described in Modern Pharmacology with Clinical Applications Sixth Edition Craig Stitzel Chpt. 56 pg 639 656 2004 herein incorporated by reference. This reference describes chemotherapeutic drugs to include alkylating agents antimetabolites anti tumor antibiotics plant derived products such as taxanes enzymes hormonal agents such as glucocorticoids miscellaneous agents such as cisplatin monoclonal antibodies immunomodulating agents such as interferons and cellular growth factors. Other suitable classifications for chemotherapeutic agents include mitotic inhibitors and nonsteroidal anti estrogenic analogs. Other suitable chemotherapeutic agents include topoisomerase I and II inhibitors and kinase inhibitors.

Specific examples of suitable biological and chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to cisplatin carmustine BCNU 5 fluorouracil 5 FU cytarabine Ara C gemcitabine methotrexate daunorubicin doxorubicin dexamethasone topotecan etoposide paclitaxel vincristine tamoxifen TNF alpha TRAIL interferon in both its alpha and beta forms thalidomide and melphalan. Other specific examples of suitable chemotherapeutic agents include nitrogen mustards such as cyclophosphamide alkyl sulfonates nitrosoureas ethylenimines triazenes folate antagonists purine analogs pyrimidine analogs anthracyclines bleomycins mitomycins dactinomycins plicamycin vinca alkaloids epipodophyllotoxins taxanes glucocorticoids L asparaginase estrogens androgens progestins luteinizing hormones octreotide actetate hydroxyurea procarbazine mitotane hexamethylmelamine carboplatin mitoxantrone monoclonal antibodies levamisole interferons interleukins filgrastim and sargramostim. Chemotherapeutic compositions also comprise other members i.e. other than TRAIL of the TNF superfamily of compounds.

Radiotherapy protocols Additionally in several method embodiments of the present invention the Smac peptidomimetic therapy may be used in connection with chemo radiation or other cancer treatment protocols used to inhibit tumor cell growth.

For example but not limited to radiation therapy or radiotherapy is the medical use of ionizing radiation as part of cancer treatment to control malignant cells is suitable for use in embodiments of the present invention. Although radiotherapy is often used as part of curative therapy it is occasionally used as a palliative treatment where cure is not possible and the aim is for symptomatic relief. Radiotherapy is commonly used for the treatment of tumors. It may be used as the primary therapy. It is also common to combine radiotherapy with surgery and or chemotherapy. The most common tumors treated with radiotherapy are breast cancer prostate cancer rectal cancer head neck cancers gynecological tumors bladder cancer and lymphoma. Radiation therapy is commonly applied just to the localized area involved with the tumor. Often the radiation fields also include the draining lymph nodes. It is possible but uncommon to give radiotherapy to the whole body or entire skin surface. Radiation therapy is usually given daily for up to 35 38 fractions a daily dose is a fraction . These small frequent doses allow healthy cells time to grow back repairing damage inflicted by the radiation. Three main divisions of radiotherapy are external beam radiotherapy or teletherapy brachytherapy or sealed source radiotherapy and unsealed source radiotherapy which are all suitable examples of treatment protocol in the present invention. The differences relate to the position of the radiation source external is outside the body while sealed and unsealed source radiotherapy has radioactive material delivered internally. Brachytherapy sealed sources are usually extracted later while unsealed sources are injected into the body. Administration of the Smac peptidomimetic may occur prior to concurrently with the treatment protocol. Annexin V Propidium Iodide Staining To show the ability of Smac mimetics to induce apoptosis Annexin V fluorescein isothiocyanate staining was performed as per manufacturer s protocol Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . Briefly cells were exposed to various concentrations of Smac mimetics for 18 24 hrs. and then removed from the assay plate by trypsinization. Cells were then pelleted and resuspended in assay buffer supplied by manufacturer Annexin V and propidium iodide were added to the cell preparations and incubated for 1 hour in the dark at room temperature. Following the incubation additional buffer 200 l was then added to each tube and the samples were analyzed immediately by flow cytometry. In the presence of Smac mimetics apoptosis was strongly promoted as assessed by annexin PI staining and analyzed by flow cytometry. The amplification in the number of apoptotic cells Annexin V positive propidium iodide negative lower right quadrant by IAP antagonists as compared to control was dose dependent and due to the induction of apoptosis and not via increasing the proportion of necrotic cells.

Biological and chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and radiation induce apoptosis by activating the extrinsic or intrinsic apoptotic pathways and since Smac mimetics relieve inhibitors of apoptotic proteins IAPs and thus remove the block in apoptosis the combination of chemotherapeutics anti neoplastic agents and radiation with Smac mimetics should work synergistically to facilitate apoptosis.

The relevance of this potent synergy is that it makes possible the use of the Smac peptidomimetics which are IAP antagonists to improve the efficacy of the marketed platinum containing compounds cisplatin and carboplatin . This may be accomplished by lowering the required dose of the poorly tolerated platinum containing compounds and or by improving the response rate at the marketed dose.

The present invention is not limited to the embodiments described and exemplified above but is capable of variation and modification within the scope of the appended claims.

