---

title: Role tailored portal solution integrating near real-time metrics, business logic, online collaboration, and web 2.0 content
abstract: The disclosed solution provides a tailored user experience available through a Web portal that addresses the multiple-view, multiple-data needs of operations, supervisory, policy making, and executive personnel of an organization. These various roles can all be concerned with measurement/assessment of an organization's compliance with performance targets, for which real-time, near real-time or other metrics are gathered. The metrics can be presented in a role tailored fashion to the portal users in near real-time along with federation of analysis and trend calculation output. Business logic can be applied to the federated data and near real-time metrics to automatically effectuate actions and/or to suggest responses when received metrics exceed previously established boundaries. Collaboration tools and Web 2.0 information sharing technologies can be integrated in the portal to facilitate rapid coordinated responses and to share information across the organization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08185827&OS=08185827&RS=08185827
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08185827
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071026
---
The present invention relates to the field of Web portal technologies and more particularly to a role tailored portal solution integrating near real time metrics business logic online collaboration and Web 2.0 content.

Many organizations capture near real time metrics which are significant to an organization function. These metrics typically have a normal operation range within which no actions are required. When an operation range of the metrics exceeds established boundaries however decisive and rapid action is often demanded. In a large and or distributed organization response actions can involve numerous decisions of human agents at different management levels. Coordination among these human agents can be difficult which can lengthen a situation response time can result in costly miscommunications can result in divergent understandings of a situation and or a situation response can cause improper reporting documentation of a response and the like.

Individual non integrated solutions exist that are designed to handle aspects of the above problem. For example collaboration tools exist to facilitate communications among human agents. Software based monitoring tools exist to capture and distribute real time metrics. Widgets exist to display metrics as gauges for easy consumption. These tools are presently scattered across different computing spaces which are selectively available to decision makers in different forms. Different decision makers can have access to one or more of these tools. Different ones of the tools can execute upon different computing systems. No single information mechanism system exists that can provide metric driven time sensitive information to decision makers action takers of a large distributed organization in a unified easy to consume manner. Preexisting software tools fall short of the industry need to detect when real time metrics exceed safe boundaries and to facilitate timely coordinated responses among key organizational decision makers action takers.

The disclosed solution provides a tailored user experience available through a Web portal that addresses the multiple view multiple data needs of operations supervisory policy making and executive personnel of an organization. These various roles can all be concerned with measurement assessment of an organization s compliance with performance targets for which real time or near real time metrics are gathered. The metrics can be presented in a role tailored fashion to the portal users in near real time along with federation of analysis and trend calculation output. Business logic can be applied to the federated data and near real time metrics to automatically effectuate actions and or to suggest responses when received metrics exceed previously established boundaries such as a safe operation range for a key performance indicator.

Collaboration tools and Web 2.0 information sharing technologies can be integrated in the portal to facilitate rapid coordinated responses and to share information across the organization. For example online collaboration tools e.g. instant messaging online meeting tools etc. can automatically identify and or suggest personnel to assist with a situation where metrics exceed safe operational boundaries. Web 2.0 tools can institutionalize data at many different levels which can be searched and applied to assist with handling a metrics driven situation.

No known conventional tool leverages collaboration tools and or Web 2.0 technologies within a portal to assist with responding to metrics driven situations which often require rapid corrective actions be taken to ensure organizational assets are restored to a safe operating range as soon as possible. Gains achieved through integrated use of the collaboration tools and Web 2.0 technologies can be particularly valuable as the severity of necessary corrective adjustments to restore assets to a safe operating range can geometrically expand as time from an incident causing a deviation increases. That is continuously increasing adjustments can be required over time as a situation worsens deviates from a safe operating range which makes rapid and coordinated responses of critical import.

It should be noted that various aspects of the invention can be implemented as a program for controlling computing equipment to implement the functions described herein or as a program for enabling computing equipment to perform processes corresponding to the steps disclosed herein. This program may be provided by storing the program in a magnetic disk an optical disk a semiconductor memory any other recording medium or can also be provided as a digitally encoded signal conveyed via a carrier wave. The described program can be a single program or can be implemented as multiple subprograms each of which interact within a single computing device or interact in a distributed fashion across a network space.

The method detailed herein can also be a method performed at least in part by a service agent and or a machine manipulated by a service agent in response to a service request.

Each portlet can present information in a manner that it can be interactively drilled down to various granularity levels for which a user has authority which can again vary by user role. An example of a drill down operation can be a clicking on a gauge in a metrics reporting portlet to provide more less detailed information relating to that metric. Content presented in the various portlets can be dynamically adjusted based upon content of other portlets in accordance with established programmatic rules. These programmatic rules can incorporate business logic of the organization that the portals support.

As shown the portlets can include a metrics portlet a Web 2.0 portlet a collaboration portlet a trend portlet a forecasting portlet an alert portlet and the like. Additional portlets not shown can include for example a people finder portlet a context navigator portlet a portlet for external data streams from resources or for example customized by role and a media presentation portlet. Different portals can be configured to present different portlets based upon user configured settings and or user role.

The business logic can be driven by current values of the metrics presented in portlet and how these current values compare against configurable boundaries and ranges of operations. For example when the metrics deviate from a safe operation range business logic can trigger an out of bounds event. This event can cause alerts to be established in the alert portlet can result in a search of documents relevant to the out of bounds event through the Web 2.0 portlet can cause important contact information for available people needed to resolve the out of bounds event to appear in the collaboration portlet and the like. In other words the portals can serve as focal points for notifying users of out of bounds events for providing necessary information to ensure a quick response to coordinate this response across organization personnel and to record an organization response in a reviewable and systematic manner.

Metrics driving this process can be based upon values captured by sensors linked to organization assets . These metrics can be stored in real time and or near real time by organization IT resources . A set of services can execute which provide the portal server real time updates based upon the metrics handled by the organization IT resources . Additional services can link other resources such as collaboration resources Web 2.0 resources public resources and third party resources to the portal server where obtained processed information from all of these resources can be selectively presented within the portals . Collaboration resources can include instant messaging resources chat resources online meeting resources co browsing resources Voice Over Internet Protocol VoIP telephony resources video conferencing resources and the like used to permit users to communicate. The Web 2.0 resources can include but are not limited to content management libraries or repositories WIKIs BLOGS syndication feeds folksonomies mashups and the like which users can utilize to share information with other organization users.

As used herein the portal server can provide data and can function as a communication intermediary between the clients and resources or data sources . The portal server can provide real time and or near real time information to portlets which can require constant updating. The portal server can be optionally implemented as a cluster of portal servers not shown to provide redundancy and to enable resilient operation of system should one or more portal servers fail.

Each of the portals can represent a Web site or service environment that centrally offers a broad array of resources and information for an organization such metrics collaboration resources contact information Web 2.0 content and the like. Each portal can include multiple Web portlets which can vary by a role of a user.

Each portlet can be a reusable Web component that displays information to portal users from a designated source which can be different from the back end resource that provides information for the portal. An arrangement of portlets within a portal a presentation of information within the portal the responsiveness of this presentation and other user perceived factors all contribute to the user experience of the portal .

Each of the clients can be a computing device capable of presenting Web content within a browser . Each client can include for example a desktop computer a server a mobile telephone a tablet computer a personal data assistant PDA a digital media player and the like. Each of the resources can represent an information technology resource such as one or more back end systems. One of the organization resources can be sensor equipped organization assets . The sensors can capture metrics which can be stored in a data store which is accessible by a data federation service or other processing component which ultimately presents the metrics in a metrics portlet in real time or near real time.

Each of the engines can be a software program executing within an organization infrastructure that is able to perform a processing action against data from one or more of the resources . Processing results can be delivered to the portal server . In one embodiment the engines can be used to implement one or more software services . The services can include for example federation services role services security services configuration services decision services experience services or other services. In one embodiment the services can be SOA services linking resources to the portal server .

Each of the components of system can be interconnected through a network not shown . The network can include any hardware software and firmware necessary to convey data encoded within carrier waves. Data can be contained within analog or digital signals and conveyed though data or voice channels. The network can include local components and data pathways necessary for communications to be exchanged among computing device components and between integrated device components and peripheral devices. The network can also include network equipment such as routers data lines hubs and intermediary servers which together form a data network. The networks can further include circuit based communication components and mobile communication components such as telephony switches modems cellular communication towers and the like. Additionally the network can include line based and or wireless communication pathways.

Additionally in system digitally encoded information can be stored in a plurality of data stores not shown which are accessible by system components. These data stores can be a physical or virtual storage spaces configured to store digital information. The data stores can be physically implemented within any type of hardware including but not limited to a magnetic disk an optical disk a semiconductor memory a digitally encoded plastic memory a holographic memory or any other recording medium. Each of data stores can be a stand alone storage unit as well as a storage unit formed from one or more physical devices. Additionally information can be stored within the data stores in a variety of manners. For example information can be stored within a database structure or can be stored within one or more files of a file storage system where each file may or may not be indexed for information searching purposes. Further the data stores can optionally utilize one or more encryption mechanisms to protect stored information from unauthorized access.

As shown for example a portal workplace and its portlets can map to layer of the SOA . Multiple user roles and their associated Web browsers can access the presentation and application services . The presentation and application services can include the user experience portal server and various support applications such as an organization directory instant messaging and content management library systems. The SOA can bifurcate presentation services from application services in zone which can foster configurable end user experiences while ensuring consistent handling of organization information.

The resources portion of the SOA can be involved with the provisioning of data required to drive measurements historical trending and marketplace portions of the portal workplace. Various back end enterprise level systems can yield direct or to be federated such as by federation service data. Resource contributions must be fetched coordinated and appropriately transformed. The use of domain and enterprise service providers allows the isolation and insulation of back end systems while allowing access to their functions via Web Services interfaces. The integration service provider can integrate information from the other service providers and can communicate with a service gateway . The service gateway can implement dynamic binding request response decomposition composition and content based routing of document literal Extensible Markup Language XML requests generally arriving via Web Services and provide protocol conversion if necessary.

More specifically the integration service provider can serve as a reference system for service routing and versioning as well as the handler for complex requests and processes not addressable by the service gateway . All of these middleware and back end adapter components combine to standardize normalize and flexibly implement the loose coupling that is a SOA strength. All serve to optimize the presentation and application services access to back end systems the middleware components may be used to cache fetched data to preempt full round trips portal to back end resources where possible.

Taking the above into account and for the portal workplace the presentation and application services largely implemented with a the portal server and collaboration technology . The portal server can use client libraries for the conversion of Java Bean based requests into document literal XML ones which are transmitted to the service gateway for decomposition many to individuals and routing. When the near real time dial gauges are generating requests via AJAX those end up being transmitted via Web services calls to the service gateway which enables access to data cached in the service bus or requested of the appropriate resource . Responses can be sent back to the service gateway which will cache appropriate data and compose a total response to match all facets of the original request. Subsequent requests can be matched with cached data before it expires thereby extending the time before another full round trip through the service provider is necessary.

The same approach as above is taken for the marketplace portion of the portal workplace as data relating to trading for example emissions credits or offsets and allowance accounts is accessed once again through the user experience the service gateway possibly the ISP and an appropriate service provider .

In the cases where multiple service providers and back end systems must contribute to federated responses or multi step business processes must be run for analysis or aggregation purposes the integration service provider can be utilized. Possessing business process choreography capabilities the integration service provider is able to handle requests involving conversions and synthesis the service gateway cannot. As response routing does go back through the service gateway however the ability to capture complex results in cache is still present and can be leveraged for subsequent requests. An example of a request requiring aggregation of data from various back end resources is when portal workplace fetches its past present and future information in one request for a historical trending portlet. The integration service provider provides the breakdown and steps required to access each contributing back end system and then aggregates the responses to form one answer. 

In summary the visible portion of the portal workplace leverages the invisible portion provided by the SOA infrastructure and in order to access the various pieces of data required to drive its mix of portlets. The employment of client side Java Beans for convenience document literal XML content based routing dynamic binding multi step request handling and Web services enablement of back ends contributes to this goal.

It should be emphasized that the architecture is shown for illustrative purposes only and that the scope of the invention is not to be limited in this regard. For instance other SOA architectures not having an integration service provider component can be used to implement the portal functionality. Other architecture types such as a RESTful architecture can also be used to implement portal functionally in different invention embodiments.

For example each portlet of client can utilize interaction engine to interface with the portal server . In memory cache or data store can be used to store information specifying data sources for updating the portlets such as URLs for associated Web sites. Data store can also separately store and track foreground presented version information for the portlets and background hidden version information.

The portal server of system can include a user experience framework a master handler a emissions data handler and an alert data handler . Caches and data store contain information which can also be used by the portal server . The client can communicate with portal server via a network infrastructure not shown . Authorization engines not shown can ensure security of portlet data.

User experience framework or engines can interface with specific clients . The user experience engines can be communicatively linked to registration handler not shown master handler and data handlers as shown. Each data handler can be associated with a memory cache and or which stores frequently updated data and other pertinent update frequency information. Handlers can together ensure that data presented within client portlets and obtained from providers is continuously updated.

In one embodiment user experience engines can customize enterprise content for specific user roles or communication channels such as a customer channel an employee channel a management channel an IT administrator channel and the like. The communication channels can also be linked to different market channels such as employee systems kiosks self service Web sites and the like. Accordingly the user experience engines can customize streams of enterprise data obtained from an enterprise infrastructure for different front end systems. Segmenting enterprise data from different front end systems used by clients in such a loosely coupled fashion ensures that enterprise data can be utilized by different separately customizable systems without negatively affecting back end systems.

Information can be conveyed as Web service data to the portal server via a service gateway which is connected to an integration service provider . Other providers can exist which communicate with the gateway and or the integration service provider . A service directory can specify the types of services available to system . Middleware components can optionally use one or more memory cache to improve system performance.

Method can begin in step where a portal service e.g. decision service can detect that current metrics exceed a safe range defined using previously established boundary values which can be user configured. This detection can trigger an out of bounds event. In step a data store such as cache can be updated with the metric data which ultimately results in this data being displayed within client portlets in near real time. In step a set of roles users that are to be notified of the occurrence of the out of bounds event can be determined. In step alerts can be conveyed to appropriate users determined in step . Alerts can be presented within an alert portlet e.g. portlet of a portal workplace or can be automatically conveyed through another means.

Different contact rules and mechanisms can be established to more aggressively contact key users depending on the severity of the out of bounds event and its significance to an organization. For example when the out of bounds event is routine the alert portlet alone can be a contact mechanism of choice. When an out of bounds event is highly significant email fax text messages voice messages paging and the like can be used to contact suitable response personnel and to inform them of the occurrence of the out of bounds event. This can enable the contacted user to go online and receive more detailed information via a customized portal.

In step collaboration service data can be updated to indicate key problem resolving personnel and contact mechanisms for communications. For example a plant manager can instantly be presented with contact information via a collaboration portal that shows maintenance personnel qualified to resolve the out of bounds event. Collaboration services can also indicate availability of key decision makers who are to be contacted such as through a group chat session to ensure a rapid and coordinated response. In step a Web 2.0 repository of documents can be searched for relevant information relating to the out of bounds event. This information can be placed in a data store in step which can be used to populate Web 2.0 portlets for appropriate personnel.

For example a plant manager can be presented with a WIKI detailing proper plant level protocol for responding to the out of bounds event. A maintenance worker logging onto the organization portal can be presented with maintenance manuals repair BLOG entries and the like relevant for his her tasks in resolving the out of bounds event. This example shows that information provided in a portal related to the out of bounds event can be role tailored to be relevant for a particular user.

As shown interface can include a set of metric portlets and each able to present real time or near real time metrics. Metric portlets and can include graphical widgets that show current values relative to normal operational boundary conditions. Data presented in the portlets and can be based upon sensor readings and or a federation of data from multiple sources. The metric portlets and are not limited to graphical expressions and tables of data charts summaries and the like can also be presented. In one embodiment each of the metric portlets and can be configured to drill down to various levels of detail.

Portlet is a historical measurement and or trend analysis portlet which presents historic information related to the near real time metrics and or presents forecast information related to the near real time metrics. Portlet information can quickly permit a user to put current metric values in context which can facilitate making an appropriate and timely response to an out of bound event or to a situation likely to result in an out of bounds event.

The alerts portlet can automatically present a notification to a set of organization associated users whenever the near real time metrics exceed the set of previously established boundaries. Other organization personnel can also post alerts directed towards specific users and or user groups.

The Web 2.0 portlet can be used to access a set of shared documents relevant to an organization. Entries available through portlet can be designed to provide insight required to make tactical and strategic decisions to achieve metric driven value targets to maintain the near real time metrics within safe operational ranges relative to the set of previously established boundaries and or to otherwise conduct user specific organization tasks.

The collaboration portlet can facilitate communications among organization associated users through various online and external communication channels.

The portlets shown in interface are not intended to be comprehensive. Additionally design choices for interface are arbitrary and use of other design choices falls within the scope to the disclosed invention.

Portal can include a set of emissions portlets an alert portlet an Instant Messaging collaboration portlet a people finder portlet and a navigation portlet .

As shown portal can include a set of emissions portlets an alert portlet an Instant Messaging collaboration portlet a people finder portlet a navigation portlet and a historical emissions portlet . Content contained in each portlet can vary from content of portlets due to the different role. For example a set of alerts directed towards plant operators can be different than a set of alerts for plant managers. The addition of the historical emissions portlet illustrates an increased focus on overall plant details for portal compared to portal .

When a public perception tab of portal is selected by an executive level user interface can be presented. Interface can include a quarterly report portlet a public perception portlet a new technologies portlet and a news portlet concerned with public perception.

When a shareholder perception tab of portal is selected interface can be presented. Interface can show a company stock tracker portlet an earnings per share portlet an organization stock report portal and a user s stock portfolio portlet .

The present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention also may be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

