---

title: Automatic primer feed mechanism
abstract: A primer feed mechanism mounted on a carrier of an artillery piece includes a body assembly for mounting the primer feed mechanism on the carrier, the body assembly having guide rails and a follower plate; a tray assembly that is movable on the guide rails of the body assembly, the tray assembly including a housing and an injector arm assembly; an actuator drive link connected to the carrier; a quick release link connected to the actuator drive link; and a drive link assembly connected to the quick release link and to the injector arm assembly; wherein one end of the injector arm assembly includes a push pin that reciprocates in the housing to inject a primer and another end of the injector arm assembly includes a follower that travels in the follower plate of the body assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07845264&OS=07845264&RS=07845264
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07845264
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070503
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 907 911 filed Apr. 20 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 246 549 which application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 501 620 having a U.S. filing date of Jun. 8 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 228 779 and an international filing date of Aug. 13 2001 PCT US01 25605 and entitled Automatic Primer Feed Mechanism which application is hereby incorporated by reference. This application claims the benefit of priority of international application number PCT US01 25605 having an international filing date of Aug. 13 2001 which claims the benefit of priority of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 230 450 filed on Sep. 6 2000 and U.S. nonprovisional application Ser. No. 09 718 106 filed on Nov. 15 2000. This application expressly incorporates by reference all prior filed applications set forth above.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the United States Government for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

This invention relates generally to artillery and more particularly to a mechanism for automatically feeding primer cartridges in an artillery piece.

Field artillery pieces operate by detonating a propellant charge behind a projectile in a gun barrel. Typically the propellant charge is detonated by means of a primer cartridge that in turn is detonated by the force of an externally applied blow or electrical current. A fresh unfired primer cartridge must be used for each firing of the artillery piece.

More responsive and effective artillery fire requires a faster rate of fire and reduced labor intensiveness. Presently for large caliber artillery pieces with interrupted screw block breech mechanisms such as 155 mm artillery pieces and the like percussion primers are loaded by hand or using various types of automatic feed mechanisms. In manual loading one primer is manually placed in the spindle primer chamber and the firing mechanism is then manually moved over the primer in the ready to fire position. The manual technique is subject to human errors injury and problems inserting the primer especially when the light is dim.

Until the present invention there have not been effective fail safe alternatives to manual loading of primers. There is a need for a primer feed mechanism that automatically feeds live primers and ejects spent primer cases in large caliber artillery pieces for example a 155 mm gun . Carroll et al. teach one known automatic type primer feed mechanism in U.S. Statutory Invention Registration H 1121 which is hereby incorporated by reference. One problem with the Carroll et al. mechanism is accidental misfiring of a primer cartridge before proper closing of the breech which may result in human injury or death. Thus there is a need for a safe and efficient system for loading primer cartridges in the breech of a gun.

It is an object of the invention to provide a new and improved device for feeding primer cartridges in an artillery piece. The device loads a fresh primer after full breech closure and extracts a spent primer before breech opening to maximize safety. Thus the gun crew can safely perform gun misfire sticker and check fire operations before the breech is opened.

It is another object of the invention to provide a new and improved device for feeding primer cartridges in an artillery piece wherein the primer cartridges are automatically fed with a minimum of handling by operating personnel thereby shortening the length of the fire cycle.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a new and improved device for feeding primers in an artillery piece that is reliable and able to withstand the repeated recoil of the artillery piece as it is fired over and over.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a device for automatically feeding primers which reduces the number of gun crewmembers required.

Still another object of the invention is to provide a device for automatically feeding primer cartridges to large artillery pieces which is safe dependable and easy to maintain.

The invention includes a body assembly for mounting the primer feed mechanism to the carrier of the artillery piece to position the primer feed mechanism on one side of the breech of the artillery piece. The body assembly includes a follower plate for motion control of a primer injector arm assembly. The body assembly has guides that control movements of and retain a tray assembly. The tray assembly includes congruent guide rails for engagement with the body assembly s guides. The body assembly includes a primer extractor for extracting spent primers when the tray assembly is moved to an extraction position. Movement of the tray assembly is controlled by cooperative action with the primer injector arm assembly that is attached through linkages to an actuator attached to the carrier.

The invention includes a primer cartridge magazine assembly mounted in the tray assembly for housing a plurality of primers for insertion into the artillery piece. The primer cartridge magazine assembly includes a slot in one side to permit the pushpin of the injector arm assembly to cooperatively engage and move primers contained in the magazine assembly upon movement of the injector arm assembly to a ready to fire position. The tray assembly includes an integral receiver for mounting the magazine. Live primer cartridges are stored in the magazine assembly that is attached to the tray assembly. The tray assembly in turn is attached to the body assembly and located at a safe distance from the primer chamber within the spindle thereby preventing flames from reaching the charge and igniting prematurely.

During a fire cycle of operation recoil motion of the artillery piece disconnects the primer feed mechanism from external actuator drive linkages while the tray assembly remains locked in a fire position during recoil and counter recoil. An external drive linkage of the primer feed mechanism re engages the system mounted drive actuator on counter recoil. The extract cycle of a spent primer cartridge is initiated after counter recoil and the extract cycle is completed prior to the breech of the artillery piece being opened. The primer feed mechanism can be manually hydraulically or otherwise power actuated from the fire position to the extract position of the mechanism.

The operation of the primer feed mechanism includes a locking the tray assembly in an extract position using a safety latch assembly and opening the breech b loading a charge and projectile c closing the breech fully which releases the safety latch assembly d actuating the injector arm assembly to cause the tray assembly to translate from the extract to the fire position e dwelling the tray assembly s linear motion as the injector arm assembly rotates to inject a fresh primer f resuming linear motion of the tray assembly with the injector arm assembly in a down position the tray assembly moving to the fire position and g locking the tray assembly in the fire position by a locking plunger moving into a locking plunger pocket in the body assembly.

The primer feed mechanism of the invention offers several advantages. For example loading is simplified because the gun crew need only handle previously loaded magazine assemblies rather than individual primers. The primer feed mechanism improves safety because live primers stored in a magazine assembly are at a safe distance from the primer chamber thereby preventing flame from reaching a live charge. A fresh primer is loaded after full breech closure and extracted before the breech is opened thereby allowing the gun crew to perform misfire sticker and check fire operations before the breech is opened.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring to the drawings and in particular to a primer feed mechanism is shown mounted adjacent to the breech carrier end of an artillery piece. In accordance with conventional practice the artillery piece includes a breech block not shown for clarity mounted to a hinged breech carrier that swings to allow the breech to be opened and closed. The breech block s interior face includes an obturator that is carried at one end of a spindle extending through the breech block. The obturator and obturator spindle include a central passageway that terminates at one end in a chamber for receiving therein a primer cartridge of known construction. In use a propellant charge is placed in the gun barrel ahead of the breech block which is then closed. Detonation of the primer cartridge ignites the propellant charge through the passageway to fire the artillery piece.

In general the primer feed mechanism functions to contain a plurality of primers to automatically insert an unfired primer into the chamber and to automatically extract a fired primer from the chamber in a safe manner so that the breech closes prior to insertion of the next primer. To this end the primer feed mechanism includes a magazine assembly for containing a plurality of primer cartridges a receiving area formed in a tray assembly for mounting the magazine assembly to the feed mechanism and a firing mechanism assembly retained in a firing mechanism pocket . Firing mechanism assembly is responsive to an operator input for firing the artillery piece. Preferably the magazine assembly is a detachable unit to permit substitution of a magazine assembly containing fresh primers.

The primer feed mechanism is designed for use with the carrier of a large caliber artillery piece in exemplary form a 155 mm howitzer . A rack not shown is inserted in the hinged carrier that swings to allow opening and closing of the breech. The primer feed mechanism includes a body assembly and a tray assembly . Body assembly includes a follower plate and tray assembly includes a follower . Follower travels in follower plate . An actuator drive link connects with the carrier which in turn has an actuator not shown attached to the carrier. Quick release link connects at one end to actuator drive link and at another end to drive link assembly . Drive link assembly connects with an injector arm assembly .

The carrier actuator not shown causes the actuator drive link to move which in turn moves the quick release link . Quick release link moves the drive link assembly and follower . Drive link assembly moves the injector arm assembly . and are perspective views of the injector arm assembly . One end of the injector arm assembly travels in the follower plate via the follower . The other end of the injector arm assembly includes a push pin that reciprocates in a housing forming part of the tray assembly . One end of the push pin has a slot that receives connecting rod of the injector arm assembly and . Connecting rod passes through bushings . This feature prevents jamming of the push pin in housing as the primer is injected and also minimizes misfiring of a primer during the injection operation. The other end of the push pin has a hollow surface for engaging the primer outside of the central percussion area of the primer.

The primer feed mechanism is attached to the carrier through the body assembly . is a perspective view and is an exploded view of the body assembly . The tray assembly slides on guide rail of the body assembly . The body assembly includes a primer extractor that is actuated by an extract member of the tray assembly . The primer extractor ejects spent primers during the eject cycle of operation of the primer feed mechanism. The magazine assembly also inserts and slides within a receiver area in the tray assembly . Body assembly further includes a body a locking plunger compression spring cross pin and cap screws that secure the follower plate to the body . Primer extractor connects to body via spring pin and extractor shaft . Primer extractor includes a torsion spring .

When assembled the firing mechanism assembly is held together under compression by the pin inserted through a hole in the lever . The hammer is held in place within the yoke by the ball bearings . In operation the firing mechanism assembly is actuated and ready to fire an artillery piece by pulling or twisting the lever . Direct pulling of lever causes the hammer to pull back. Twisting the lever causes the mating area between the case and the follower to rotate such that the follower is distended outwards from the case and the hammer is pulled back. When the lever is released the follower snaps back towards the case which in turn releases the yoke containing the hammer with consequential detonation of a fresh primer cartridge in the primer chamber .

Operation of the primer feed mechanism can be understood with reference to . The operational phases of the mechanism include a firing of the artillery piece b recoil counter recoil of the artillery piece c ejection of the spent primer cartridge d opening the breech e loading ammunition into the artillery piece f closing the breech g loading a fresh primer into the primer chamber of the breech and h ready to fire the artillery piece again. As illustrated the operation of the mechanism can be referred to as a primer load cycle and a primer eject cycle. The breech is closed in and . The breech is opened in and subsequently closed in after loading ammunition. The arrows in adjacent to the injector arm assembly quick release link and actuator drive link indicate operational dynamics of the mechanism.

The artillery piece is fired by actuation of the firing mechanism assembly which causes the primer to detonate which ignites the main propellant charge. After firing recoil motion of the artillery piece disengages the system power actuator from the externally mounted actuator of the primer feed mechanism . The tray assembly remains locked to the body assembly through the locking plunger . Then on counter recoil of the artillery piece the system power actuator re engages the externally mounted actuator for the primer feed mechanism . The tray assembly remains locked to the body assembly through the locking plunger .

Next as shown in initiation of the primer eject cycle begins with the breech still closed. The system power actuator applies load to the primer feed mechanism through the actuator drive link the quick release link the drive link assembly and through the follower that connects to injector arm assembly to unlock the locking plunger and allow the tray to move. Continued application of load to the injector arm assembly communicates linear motion to the tray assembly through the follower and follower plate .

Next as shown in with the breech still closed the primer eject cycle continues where continued loading of the injector arm assembly occurs causing it to rotate and rise out of the magazine assembly while linear translation of the tray assembly dwells. The next fresh primer is indexed in the magazine assembly . Continued loading of the injector arm assembly causes the tray assembly to then resume linear translation towards a full extract position of travel within the body assembly .

In the spend primer is extracted as the extract member of the tray assembly actuates the primer extract in the body assembly by rotating the primer extractor . The tray assembly is then in a full extract position. The breech can be opened and fresh ammunition can be loaded into the artillery piece. Opening of the breech engages a safety latch assembly that latches the tray assembly in a full extract position as shown in . In this condition the tray assembly cannot be accidentally moved to load a fresh primer when the breech is open. A fresh projectile and propellant charge can then be loaded into the artillery piece and the breech closed. After complete closure of the breech the safety latch assembly is then released and the primer load cycle begins where the load can again be applied to the injector arm assembly .

The beginning of the primer load cycle in shown in . A fresh primer is indexed to be in line with the extraction opening of the magazine assembly . As the motion of the tray assembly dwells the injector arm assembly rotates by the interactions of the follower and the follower plate causing injection of a fresh primer into the primer chamber . In the linear motion of the tray assembly resumes with the injector arm assembly and push pin injecting the primer into the primer chamber by downward motion of the push pin within the tray housing .

In the tray assembly translational motion continues to the end of travel with the firing mechanism assembly positioned over the fresh primer. The pushpin is positioned in the magazine assembly through the extraction opening . Termination of tray assembly motion causes the locking plunger to re engage locking the tray assembly to the body assembly in a fire position. The primer feed mechanism is in firing position again as in and the artillery piece is ready to fire again.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it is not intended that these illustrations and descriptions limit the invention. Changes and modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. For example the primer feed mechanism can be readily adapted for use with a variety of existing artillery pieces. Moreover the invention can be used in non military applications where a machine requires an automatic injection mechanism.

