---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for implementing a reusable new product planning model
abstract: A system for implementing a reusable new product planning model includes a processor executing a new product forecast application. The new product forecast application implements a method. The method includes gathering historical demand data for products in a product set and determining a launch period for the products, the historical demand data broken down by time periods. For each of the time periods, the method includes determining a transition percentage for each of the products, grouping the percentages by respective launch-based time periods, and averaging the percentages, resulting in an averaged transition range. The method further includes calculating fast and slow transition ranges for each of the launch-based time periods and developing a production plan for a new product by applying one of the transition ranges to the new product before product launch, and allocating a remaining demand percentage to existing products in the product set using the selected transition range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504398&OS=08504398&RS=08504398
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08504398
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071218
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. Ser. No. 11 308 395 filed Mar. 21 2006 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to product planning and more particularly to methods systems and computer program products for implementing a reusable new product planning model.

Typically demand for products of a similar type varies more at the product level than at the aggregate level. Therefore forecasting the demand for a complete set of products e.g. mid range servers is easier than forecasting the demand for a single product within that product set. When a new product is introduced into the product set forecasting demand for each individual product becomes even more difficult.

Planning techniques for predicting new product introduction volumes the transition speed by which a new product replaces a series of related older products and the associated end of life of volumes have been characterized by manual disparate processes. Existing planning process can be based on trial and error personal prognostications or manual spreadsheet tools to name a few. These processes are difficult to repeat and share across a corporation and generally have problematic results during new product introductions. Planners have not had a reusable method for predicting new product introduction effects on existing products nor have they had techniques to view the total demand for the set of products and to determine how best to allocate the overall demand down to the product level.

Predicting the volumes for all products new and old in that period of introduction transition is critical for the successful launch of a new product and has implications on the extended supply chain. For the new product ensuring supply manufacturing and distribution capacity matches market demand is crucial to capture market share and satisfy customer expectations. For the related products that are already in the market the supply chain must make accommodations for slower growth or reduced levels of capacity to assure that capacity is not over shot leading to obsolete inventory and write offs.

What is needed therefore is a way to predict the demand of new products the associated effects on existing related products in a product set in order to ensure greater accuracy in the production planning processes for these products.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments a method system and storage medium for implementing a reusable new product planning model.

The system includes a processor in communication with a storage device. The storage device houses historical demand data for products in a product set. The system also includes a new product forecast application executing on the processor. The new product forecast application implements a method. The method includes gathering historical demand data for products in a product set and determining a launch period for the products the historical demand data broken down by time periods. For each of the time periods the method includes determining a transition percentage for each of the products grouping the transition percentages by respective launch based time periods and averaging the transition percentages resulting in an averaged transition range. The method further includes calculating fast and slow transition ranges for each of the launch based time periods. The method further includes developing a production plan for a new product by applying one of the transition ranges to the new product before product launch and allocating a remaining demand percentage to existing products in the product set using the selected transition range and for a corresponding launch based time period.

Other systems methods and or computer program products according to embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon review of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods and or computer program products be included within this description be within the scope of the exemplary embodiments and be protected by the accompanying claims.

In accordance with exemplary embodiments a method system and computer program product for implementing a reusable new product planning model is provided. The new product planning model is created for products sets associated with a production planning system and or a demand planning system that is then passed to a production planning system to explode down to the detail component and production scheduling level. The new product planning model enables the production planning system to utilize historical demand data for product sets calculate transition percentages on aspects of the historical data and group the averaged transition percentages into ranges that can be used in analyzing and predicting the affects of a new product s introduction on existing related products within a product set. These and other features of the reusable new product planning model will now be described.

Turning now to a system upon which the reusable new product planning model may be created and implemented will now be described in exemplary embodiments. The system of includes a host system executing one or more planning applications as well as a new product forecast application . The host system may be associated with a manufacturing enterprise that performs production planning processes. Host system may comprise any type of processor device capable of handling the volume of production planning processes associated with the manufacturing enterprise. For example if the manufacturing enterprise is a global manufacturing entity the host system may be implemented by one or more servers executing applications and various other business tools typically found in a manufacturing environment.

Planning application may comprise a commercial or legacy based planning software tool e.g. advanced planning system APS as dictated by the needs of the manufacturing enterprise. The new product forecast application may include a user interface to assist individuals of the manufacturing enterprise to create and implement reusable new product models. Although the new product forecast application is shown in to be executing directly on the host system it will be appreciated and understood by those skilled in the art that the application may be executed by a remote processor e.g. a general purpose computer in communication with the host system via a network .

Host system is in communication with one or more storage devices such as storage device and storage device . Storage device stores historical demand data for product sets offered by the manufacturing enterprise of host system . A product set as used herein refers to a group of products having similar features and or functions e.g. mid range servers . Thus e.g. individual products in the product set may be distinguished by model type or other suitable distinction. Historical demand data may include volumes of products and or product sets sold over a period of time e.g. the product lifecycle etc.

Storage device stores forecast range reports generated by the new product forecast application and are described further in . Host system may be in direct communication with one or both of storage devices e.g. via cabling or wireless local network technologies or may be linked to one or both of storage devices via wide area network WAN Internet or other type of network implementation.

As indicated above a new product model may be created and reused over time for new products that are introduced. The new product model is well suited for new product introductions whereby the new product is in addition to or a replacement of related existing products in a product set. In addition the features of the new product forecast application may be utilized in conjunction with existing planning tools e.g. planning application via e.g. an application programming interface API . Turning now to a process for creating and implementing a reusable new product model along with graphical representations of the output of the process will now be described in accordance with exemplary embodiments.

At step the new product forecast application initiates the development of a new product model for a product set by accessing storage device and retrieving historical demand data for the group of products i.e. product set for a period of time e.g. product lifecycle . illustrates a total number of units identified i.e. historical demand data from step over a period of time broken up into time segments reflected in as Periods . Periods through collectively represent the historical product period being evaluated.

The historical demand data is evaluated in order to identify when each of the products in the set were introduced i.e. new product introductions at step . As shown in products A through E belong to a first product set. New production introductions for each product in the product set are identified. This introduction information may be referred to as the launch dates or General Availability Dates GA of the respective products. GA may be provided as a static table held within the historical demand database and maintained by product planners. Alternatively GA may be computed by the new product forecast application based on when each product began shipping. In some cases a new product may have a small number of shipments to test customers before the GA date. If this is the case the new product forecast application may be programmed such that the GA date is calculated after the product has reached a certain percentage of the total product set e.g. new product demand is greater than 5 of the total product set s demand .

Continuing with the above example assume that Product A was active before period and through period . As shown in products B C were introduced in period and were active through period Product D was launched in period and is still active and Product E was launched in period and is also still active. Product F is the newest product that will be launched in period . The forecast is needed for all active products for periods and .

Using the historical demand data e.g. volumes associated with each product the new product forecast application calculates a transition percentage for each of the products A E at step . A graphical representation of the transition percentages for products A E is shown in . The transition percentages are determined by calculating the volume of each product as a percentage of the total volume of the product set for each of the time periods. For example Product D was introduced in Period and reflects a demand for 242 units . The total volume for Period the sum of Products A D is 1211. Thus the transition percentage for Product D in Period is 20 242 units divided by total units 1211 . A transition percentage that is calculated for a product at a time period associated with the period of launch for that product is referred to as a new product transition percentage. For example the new product transition percentage for Product D is 20 as shown in Period the launch period for the product.

At step the new product application calculates the average transition percentages for each product. A graphical representation of the average transition percentages is shown in . To calculate the average transition percentages each new product transition percentage from is normalized into time periods based on the GA period for that particular product e.g. GA Launch period GA 1 next period after launch and GA 2 second period after launch as shown in . These time periods are referred to herein as launch based time periods in order to distinguish them from the time periods described in . For time periods in which more than one new product has been launched the new product transition percentages for each of the products are added together. As shown in the new product transition percentage for Products B C is 50 Period corresponds to the GA period or launch based time period for Products B C and Product B s new product transition percentage of 30 is added to Product C s new product transition percentage of 20 . In addition the number of launch based time periods used to evaluate the product transition percentages will depend on the time periods being used for planning daily monthly etc. and the lifecycles for the type of product being planned.

Once each new product transition percentage from is normalized into time periods based on the GA period i.e. launch based time periods for that particular product the average transition percentages are then calculated by launch based time periods as a mathematical average. The average transition percentage is calculated by adding together the transition percentages for each of the products by their respective launch based time periods and then averaging them. Using the sample data shown in the average transition percentage for Products B C D and E is 33 for the launch based time period GA. Likewise the average transition percentage for Products B C D and E is 57 for the launch based time period GA 1. These average transition percentages reflect the overall affect each new product had on the product set

Using the average transition percentages obtained from step the new product forecast application calculates ranges for Fast and Slow transitions for each of the launch based time periods at step . Based on the average transition percentage any products whose transition percentages are higher than the average are then averaged and become the Fast transition range in each launch based time period. Any transition percentages that are lower than the average are averaged and become the Slow transition range. A graphical representation of the transition ranges for Products B C D and E is shown in . The ranges may be based on high and low averages to be sure to smooth out any extreme exceptions.

As indicated above the fast range is determined by identifying those products whose transition percentages are greater than or equal to the average transition percentage i.e. 33 for launch based time period GA . As shown in there is only one item that meets this criterion namely Products B C with a transition percentage of 50 . This transition percentage becomes the fast transition range for the launch based time period GA. Likewise the slow transition range is determined by identifying those products whose transition percentages fall below the average transition percentage in this example Products D and E . The transition percentages for Products D and E are averaged and become the slow transition range for the respective launch based time period. This process is repeated for each launch based time period e.g. GA 1 GA 2 etc. .

A new product associated with a fast range e.g. Products B C means that the new product has a high demand as compared to the other products in the product set or a high transition percentage in terms of volumes produced as compared to the existing products. Using the ranges applied in along with the transition percentages in it is evident that the combined Product B C launch had a fast transition because these products consumed a high percentage of total demand during the first period of launch i.e. Period . In addition the effects of introducing Product E in Period were dramatic on Product A. Product D on the other hand may be characterized as slow because the transition percentages are smaller than the other observed transitions. This reflects that the introduction of Product D had less of an affect on the demand for Products A B and C than other product launches.

Once these transition ranges have been calculated they may be used by a planning group in pre production efforts as a new product planning model with respect to new product introductions e.g. Product F . The planners may apply knowledge of the products coming into the market in order to help them choose which range values to use. For example a new product may offer very compelling functionality for the majority of the market e.g. a product that has a performance breakthrough such that the price performance ratio is significantly lower than existing products and therefore the new product is likely to transition faster than normal . The planner in this instance may use the fast range e.g. 50 as shown in to support planning purposes. Examples of products that might prompt a slow range adoption may include new products that provide only incremental benefit risky products that buyers may hesitate to purchase waiting to see the product proven first or products that will likely be costly to implement in existing environments.

As shown in the fast average and slow transition ranges are applied to the new product i.e. Product F . Upon introduction of Product F at period GA there are three choices of transition ranges that may be selected i.e. 33 average 50 fast and 25 slow .

At step after the transition range is selected for the new product the new product forecast application evaluates the related existing products in the product set in light of the selected transition range values and determines how to allocate the remaining demand to these existing products. The remaining portion of demand r may be calculated as 1 n r . If that remaining demand applies to more than one product e.g. Products D and E the application determines how much of r applies to each of the existing products using the new product introduction calculations for products that are still transitioning in. Alternatively if the existing products in the product set are mature then the application may calculate the remainder based on the percentage of demand these products consumed in the prior launch based time period. A graphical representation of the results of determining the remainder of product transition i.e. for periods and using the new product planning model is shown in .

At step the new product forecast application obtains the reliable product set forecast e.g. total of forecast units from the planning application and allocates the demand to the new product Product F as well as the remaining products D and E. The planning application uses input from the planners as described above to determine which of the three transition speeds average fast and slow should be used for the new Product F and the associated old products this is input back into the production planning application . A graphical depiction of a resulting demand forecast for Periods and is shown in .

As described above the present invention can be embodied in the form of computer implemented processes and apparatuses for practicing those processes. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of computer program code containing instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other computer readable storage medium wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. The present invention can also be embodied in the form of computer program code for example whether stored in a storage medium loaded into and or executed by a computer or transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via electromagnetic radiation wherein when the computer program code is loaded into and executed by a computer the computer becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose microprocessor the computer program code segments configure the microprocessor to create specific logic circuits.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the claims.

