---

title: Rapid acquisition shooting system
abstract: The invention is directed towards an elevation adjustment mechanism which has a mechanism for coarsely adjusting the pitch rotation comprising a lever actuated clamping assembly and a mechanism for finely adjusting the pitch rotation comprising a threaded rod mechanism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08123180&OS=08123180&RS=08123180
owner: Alliant Techsystems Inc.
number: 08123180
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071102
---
The present invention relates generally to an apparatus such as a shooting bench for shooting a firearm taking photographs with a camera or watching nature with an optical instrument such as binoculars or a telescope. More specifically the invention concerns to an elevation adjustment mechanism that allows the user to quickly acquire a target with a firearm camera or optical instrument.

An apparatus to stabilize and aim a device is often used by marksman to improve their shooting accuracy by photographers to obtain a desired photograph and by nature lovers to see an elusive animal. One example of such an apparatus is a shooting bench. In order to change the line of sight or aim of the device being supported by the apparatus a means for changing the position of the device is required.

The invention is directed towards an elevation adjustment mechanism which has a mechanism for coarsely aiming a device that comprises a coarse adjustment lever a coarse adjustment rod and a clamping assembly. The coarse adjustment mechanism is constructed and arranged so that depression of the coarse adjustment lever lifts the clamping assembly away from the coarse adjustment rod thereby allowing the user to translate the coarse adjustment rod and to adjust the aim of the device.

The invention is also directed towards elevation adjustment mechanism comprising a housing a coarse adjustment lever a coarse adjustment rod a clamping assembly a fine adjustment washer a fine adjustment nut and a fine adjustment rod. The housing is comprised of a sleeve and a ram cylinder. The sleeve and the ram cylinder are hollow tubes with at least a portion of the sleeve being disposed within the ram cylinder. The coarse adjustment rod has a first portion extending into a first end of the housing so that the housing encircles at least a portion of the coarse adjustment rod. The clamping assembly is engaged to the coarse adjustment lever which is engaged to the housing. The clamping assembly is positioned at least partially within an opening defined by the housing so that it is releasably engaged to a portion of the coarse adjustment rod disposed within the housing. In some embodiments the fine adjustment washer is slipped onto one end of the sleeve and the fine adjustment nut is slipped onto the other end of the sleeve before being engaged to one another and to the sleeve. In other embodiments the fine adjustment nut is engaged to the sleeve by set screws. The fine adjustment rod has a first portion that extends through an end of the sleeve and a second portion that is disposed within the sleeve.

In at least one embodiment the invention is directed towards an apparatus such as a shooting bench for example that supports a device such as a firearm a camera or an optical device and that has an elevation adjustment mechanism to aim the device. The apparatus comprises a vertical support member at least one leg a platform to support a device such as a firearm camera or binoculars and an elevation adjustment mechanism. A portion of the at least one leg and a portion of the platform is engaged to the vertical support member. A portion of the elevation adjustment mechanism is engaged to a portion of the vertical support member and a portion of the elevation adjustment mechanism is engaged to a portion of the platform. The elevation adjustment mechanism is constructed and arranged to adjust the pitch rotation of the platform thereby adjusting the pitch rotation of the device supported by the platform. The elevation adjustment mechanism comprises a mechanism for coarsely adjusting the pitch rotation comprising a lever actuated clamping assembly and a mechanism for finely adjusting the pitch rotation comprising a threaded rod mechanism.

While this invention may be embodied in many forms there are described in detail herein specific embodiments of the invention. This description is an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the invention to the particular embodiments illustrated.

For the purposes of this disclosure like reference numerals in the figures shall refer to like features unless otherwise indicated.

In at least one embodiment the coarse adjustment mechanism is a linear slide mechanism. In this embodiment the coarse adjustment mechanism comprises a coarse adjustment lever a coarse adjustment rod and a clamping assembly . It is within the scope of the invention for the coarse adjustment rod to have any length and diameter. In some embodiments the coarse adjustment rod is a threaded rod. One example of a coarse adjustment rod that is a threaded rod is shown in . In other embodiments the coarse adjustment rod is a smooth rod. It is within the scope of the invention for the clamping assembly to be any means that releasably engages the coarse adjustment rod . In some embodiments the clamping assembly is a half nut assembly. In other embodiments the clamping assembly is a half cylinder. Note that the clamping assembly has a configuration that is complementary to the configuration of the coarse adjustment rod so that the clamping assembly can releasably engage the coarse adjustment rod .

In some embodiments the coarse adjustment mechanism comprises a clamping assembly that is a half nut assembly and a coarse adjustment rod that is a threaded rod. In other embodiments the coarse adjustment mechanism comprises a clamping assembly that is a half cylinder and a coarse adjustment rod that is a smooth rod. Both of these embodiments have the configuration shown in . In some embodiments the clamping assembly is a half cylinder which is not threaded and which is lined with a high friction material. In other embodiments the clamping assembly is made of a high friction material. In at least one embodiment the materials used to make the smooth rod and the half cylinder provide adequate friction in order to eliminate translation of the smooth rod once the half cylinder is engaged with the smooth rod. Examples of high friction material include but are not limited to elastomer rubber compounds such as nitrile silicone neoprene viton and ethylene propylene diene monomer rubber EPDM . In this embodiment sufficient spring force on the coarse adjustment lever provides quick coarse adjustment.

As shown in in some embodiments one end of the coarse adjustment rod is engaged to a clevis mount by a cap screw . Thus in this embodiment end of the coarse adjustment rod engaged to the clevis mount has a threaded opening for the cap screw . The other end of the coarse adjustment rod is within the housing of the elevation adjustment mechanism . Thus at least a portion of the coarse adjustment rod is disposed within the housing . The coarse adjustment lever is engaged to a clamping assembly by a cap screw . In this embodiment the coarse adjustment lever is releasably engaged to the coarse adjustment rod by the clamping assembly . The coarse adjustment lever is engaged to the ram cylinder of the housing by a spring and by a mounting assembly . In some embodiments the clamping assembly engages the coarse adjustment rod through an opening in the housing . As shown in the opening in the housing is comprised of an opening in the sleeve that is aligned with an opening in the ram cylinder when the sleeve is disposed within the ram cylinder .

In other embodiments the clamping assembly engages the coarse adjustment rod adjacent to the housing . Note that any distance can separate the side of the clamping assembly from the side of the housing so long as the movement of the clamping assembly e.g. when the coarse adjustment lever is depressed is not hindered by contact with the housing . In this embodiment an interface guides the interaction between the coarse adjustment rod and the clamping assembly .

An alternative manner of engaging the fine adjustment mechanism to the ram cylinder is shown in . In this embodiment the fine adjustment nut is engaged to the ram cylinder by set screws . It is within the scope of the invention for two or more set screws engage the fine adjustment nut to the ram cylinder . Thus there can be two three four five six seven eight or more set screws . Note that except for the manner of engaging the fine adjustment nut to the ram cylinder the other aspects of the elevation adjustment mechanism are the same as in .

Assembly of the elevation adjustment mechanism shown in is as follows First the fine adjustment rod assembly is inserted into the proximal opening of sleeve so that it exits through the distal opening of the sleeve . The fine adjustment nut is threaded onto the fine adjustment rod from the right or distal end of the fine adjustment rod and the fine adjustment washer is slid over the sleeve from the left or proximal end until the fine adjustment nut and the fine adjustment washer are side by side at the right or distal end of the fine adjustment rod . Note that the diameter of the distal end region of the sleeve has a first diameter and a second diameter. The first diameter is greater than the second diameter and both diameters are greater than the diameter of the rest of the sleeve . Thus the first diameter corresponds to the diameter of the fine adjustment nut and the second diameter corresponds to the diameter of the fine adjustment washer. The fine adjustment washer and the fine adjustment nut are then engaged to one another. Note that because the second diameter is less than the first diameter the position of the fine adjustment washer and the fine adjustment nut is maintained. In one embodiment cap screws are used to engaged the fine adjustment washer and the fine adjustment nut together.

Then the proximal end of the sleeve fine adjustment mechanism is inserted into the distal opening of the ram cylinder as shown in . The sleeve and the ram cylinder are engaged to one another. In some embodiments set screws engage the sleeve and the ram cylinder together as shown in for example. Spring is inserted into a relief in the ram cylinder then the clamping assembly and coarse adjustment lever are engaged to each other and to the ram assembly with cap screws and washers and or hex nuts . Then the coarse adjustment lever is engaged and the proximal end of the housing is slid over the coarse adjustment rod .

Assembly of the elevation adjustment mechanism shown in is as follows First the fine adjustment rod assembly is inserted into the proximal opening of sleeve so that it exits through the distal opening of the sleeve . The fine adjustment nut is threaded onto the fine adjustment rod from the proximal end of the fine adjustment rod so that a portion of the fine adjustment nut is disposed about an end region of the sleeve . Then the fine adjustment nut is engaged to the sleeve . Then the proximal end of the sleeve fine adjustment mechanism is inserted into the distal opening of the ram cylinder . Assembly of the rest of the elevation adjustment mechanism proceeds as described above.

In at least one embodiment the coarse adjustment mechanism changes the pointing elevation i.e. rotation about a horizontal pivot otherwise known as the pitch 20 degrees from horizontal. In some embodiments the coarse adjustment mechanism has a pointing resolution of approximately 1.0 degree. In at least one embodiment the fine adjustment mechanism provides precision elevation alignment either upwards or downwards. In some embodiments the precision elevation alignment of the fine adjustment mechanism is infinite.

In at least one embodiment the elevation adjustment mechanism has a combined fine and coarse adjustment mechanisms with one threaded rod used for both the fine adjustment mechanism and coarse adjustment mechanism of the elevation adjustment mechanism as shown in . Thus in this embodiment the fine adjustment rod and the coarse adjustment rod are different regions of a single rod . It is within the scope of the invention for the rod to have any length and any diameter. In addition it is within the scope of the invention for the different regions of the single rod i.e. the coarse adjustment rod and the fine adjustment rod to have the same length or different lengths. In some embodiments the clevis mount forms a part of the housing as shown in .

As shown for example in in at least one embodiment the elevation adjustment mechanism is engaged to a bench . In some embodiments the elevation adjustment mechanism is engaged to a vertical shaft of a bench and to the platform of a bench . It is within the scope of the invention for the elevation adjustment mechanism to be engaged to the bench in any manner for example but not limited to a clevis mount a yoke or other mounting configuration.

A non limiting example of an apparatus to which the inventive elevation adjustment mechanism can be engaged is the bench shown in . The bench has legs a vertical shaft to which a seat is engaged a platform and an elevation adjustment mechanism . One portion of the elevation adjustment mechanism is engaged to the vertical shaft and a second portion of the elevation adjustment mechanism is engaged to the platform . It is within the scope of the invention for the elevation adjustment mechanism to be engaged to the bench by a clevis mount yoke and or other mounting configuration. Thus the two portions of the elevation adjustment mechanism e.g. the coarse adjustment rod and the fine adjustment rod can be engaged in the same manner e.g. a clevis mount or in different manners.

In at least one embodiment the seat rotates 360 degrees about the vertical shaft . It is within the scope of the invention for the platform to support any device for example but not limited to a weapon a camera or an optical device. Examples of optical devices include but are not limited to monoculars binoculars and telescopes. As shown in the platform is configured to support a firearm. In at least one embodiment the platform rotates 360 degrees. In some embodiments the seat and the platform move in unison. In other embodiments the seat and the platform move independently.

To adjust the platform and thereby adjust the device supported by the platform the user pushes down on the coarse adjustment lever so that the coarse adjustment lever moves closer to the ram cylinder of the housing . In this movement the spring is compressed and the clamping assembly is raised away from the coarse adjustment rod as the coarse adjustment lever pivots about the cap screw which engages the coarse adjustment lever to the mounting assembly . The cap screw is kept in position by a hex nut as shown in . When the clamping assembly is away from the coarse adjustment rod the coarse adjustment rod can be moved into or out of the housing . When the coarse adjustment rod is moved into the housing the platform pivots vertically downwards. When the coarse adjustment rod is moved out of the housing the platform pivots vertically upwards. After the coarse adjustment mechanism has been set to the desired position the fine adjustment mechanism can be used for precise positioning of the platform upwards or downwards. Thus adjustment of the platform by the elevation adjustment mechanism allows the user to adjust the aim line of sight of the device upwards or downwards and rotation of the platform about the vertical shaft of the bench allows the user to adjust the aim line of sight of the device about a vertical axis otherwise known as yaw.

