---

title: Methods of using low-dose doxepin for the improvement of sleep
abstract: Methods of preventing early awakenings, and improving sleep efficiency in hours 7 and 8 of a period of sleep, by administration of low doses of doxepin (e.g., 1-6 mg).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08513299&OS=08513299&RS=08513299
owner: Procom One, Inc.
number: 08513299
owner_city: San Marcos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070518
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 801 824 filed May 19 2006 and 60 833 319 filed Jul. 25 2006 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to the use of low doses of doxepin e.g. 1 6 milligrams to improve sleep including sleep efficiency and early awakening in an individual.

Sleep is essential for health and quality of life. Insomnia is a growing health problem in the United States. It is believed that more than 10 15 million people suffer from chronic insomnia and up to an additional 70 million people suffer from some form of insomnia each year. Insomnia is a condition characterized by difficulty falling asleep sleep onset waking frequently during the night fragmented sleep waking too early premature final awakening and or waking up feeling un refreshed. In the National Sleep Foundation s NSF Sleep in America Poll 2005 42 of survey respondents reported that they awoke frequently during the night 22 of adults reported waking too early and not being able to return to sleep and 38 reported waking and feeling un refreshed.

Sleep maintenance difficulty is the most commonly reported symptom in primary care patients with chronic insomnia and is the most common complaint in depressed patients medically ill populations especially those with pain symptoms and in the elderly.

Medications commonly used to treat sleep disorders such as insomnia include sedative antidepressants antihistamines benzodiazepines and non benzodiazepine hypnotics.

Although there have been several advances in pharmaceutical treatments for insomnia it is often hard to find an ideal drug for treating particular forms of insomnia. One common problem is early termination of sleep or premature final awakening. For example many individuals may wake prematurely and not fall back asleep thereby failing to achieve a full night of sleep. Many drugs that are effective in inducing or expediting sleep initiation do not provide much effect in maintaining sleep particularly through the eighth and final hour of sleep period. Drugs that are sufficiently powerful to induce a full eight hours sleep often cause serious hangover effects i.e. the patient has difficulty awakening and or feels sedated sleepy or disoriented and may demonstrate impairment of psychomotor function.

In addition to patients having difficulty with early termination of sleep during the last 60 90 or 120 minutes of an 8 hour sleep period other patients have problems with fragmented or disrupted sleep. In other words those patients awaken one or more times during that time period then fall asleep again. Such fragmented sleep patterns detract from a feeling of restfulness and make it less likely that the patient will enjoy restful sleep.

Both groups of patients would benefit greatly from a drug that addresses their particular sleep deficiency.

Doxepin is a tricyclic antidepressant that is known to have beneficial effects in treating insomnia. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 502 047 and 6 211 229. However prior to the present invention doxepin was not known to have particular efficacy in treating premature termination of sleep at the end of an 8 hour sleep period nor was it known to be efficacious in treating those patients with disturbed sleep patterns during the final 60 90 or 120 minutes of an 8 hour sleep period. The mean half life of doxepin is 17 hours and the half life of its major active metabolite desmethyldoxepin is 51 hours. Thus when taken at the start of a sleep cycle a majority of the drug or active metabolite should still be present in the body at the end of the sleep cycle. As a result it would be expected that dosages of doxepin that are sufficient to address premature final awakenings or last hour sleep efficiency in the elderly would also cause post sleep sedation or other undesirable side effects.

The present invention describes the surprising ability of doxepin to treat last hour sleep efficiency and premature final awakenings in patients without untoward side effects.

Some embodiments provide methods for reducing or preventing early awakenings in a patient in need thereof. In some embodiments the methods can include identifying a patient having a sleep disorder in which for a given 8 hour period of desired sleep the patient experiences a sleep period that terminates during the final 60 minutes of said period and administering to the patient prior to the sleep period doxepin a pharmaceutically accept salt thereof or a prodrug thereof in a dosage between 1 milligram mg and 6 mg that can be effective to lengthen the sleep period. In some aspects of the embodiment the patient can be identified as experiencing a sleep period that terminates during the final 45 minutes of said period. In some aspects of the embodiment the patient can be identified as experiencing a sleep period that terminates during the final 30 minutes of said period. In some embodiments the sleep period can be lengthened to terminate during or after hour 7 of said period. In some embodiments the sleep period can be lengthened to terminate during or after hour 7.5 of said period. In some aspects the patient can be additionally identified as in need of reducing wake time after sleep. In another embodiment the patient suffers from chronic or non chronic insomnia. In yet another embodiment the patient suffers from transient insomnia.

Some embodiments provide methods for decreasing fragmented sleep in the 8th hour of a sleep period for a patient. In some embodiments the methods include identifying a patient suffering from fragmented sleep during the 8th hour of a sleep period and administering to the patient doxepin a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in a dosage between about 1 mg and 6 mg. In some embodiments the dosage of doxepin can be for example about 1 mg 3 mg or 6 mg. Thus in one aspect the dosage of doxepin can be about 1 mg. In one aspect the dosage of doxepin can be about 3 mg. In one aspect the dosage of doxepin is about 6 mg. In another embodiment the patient suffers from chronic or non chronic insomnia. In yet another embodiment the patient suffers from transient insomnia.

Some embodiments provide methods for treating a sleep disorder comprising identifying a patient suffering from a transient insomnia comprising a sleep deficiency associated with one or more of LPS WASO TST TWT SE latency to Stage 2 sleep WTDS or WTAS and administering to the patient doxepin a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in a dosage between about 0.5 mg and 6 mg. In one embodiment the dosage of doxepin is about 1 mg 3 mg or 6 mg. In other embodiments the dosage of doxepin is about 0.5 mg 1 mg 3 mg or 6 mg.

Many individuals currently suffer from sleep disorders such as insomnia. Some of these individuals with insomnia are subject to shorter total sleep periods due to premature final awakenings. Also some of these individuals suffer from transient awakenings particularly during the last 1 2 hours of their sleep period. The premature final awakenings and the transient awakening during the final hours of sleep causes the individuals to be tired and un refreshed and can decrease their overall well being and productivity. Thus there is a need for methods of treating such individuals to improve sleep efficiency and the total sleep time.

The present invention relates to methods of using doxepin for example low doses of doxepin to improve the sleep of such individuals. Some embodiments relate to methods of using doxepin to prevent or reduce the early final awakening of an individual. Also some embodiments relate to decreasing the transient awakenings during the last hours of sleep preferably in the last hour of a sleep period for an individual.

As mentioned above various medications are currently approved for the treatment of sleep disorders such as insomnia. Many of the approved medications have unfavorable side effects. Additionally the previously approved medications do not effectively manage the sleep experience for an individual taking the medication. For example the approved medications do not improve fragmented sleep for a patient in the final hours of sleep especially the last hour of a sleep period. Furthermore as an example many of the already approved medications do not reduce or prevent the early final awakening of an individual that is taking the medication. In short the currently approved medications do not completely improve the sleep experience for patients in the final hours of sleep.

Doxepin HCl is a tricyclic compound currently approved for treatment of depression. The recommended daily dose for the treatment of depression ranges from 75 mg to 300 mg. Doxepin unlike most FDA approved products for the treatment of insomnia is not a Schedule IV controlled substance. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 502 047 and 6 211 229 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference describe the use of doxepin for the treatment chronic and non chronic e.g. transient short term insomnias at dosages far below those used to treat depression.

Some embodiments of this invention relate to the ability of low dose doxepin pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof to prevent premature or early final awakenings and or to improve fragmented sleep which can be measured by decrements in sleep efficiency SE during the seventh and eighth hours of an eight hour period of sleep by identifying an individual in need of such treatment and providing a low dose of doxepin a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof or a prodrug thereof to the individual.

As used herein the term polysomnography PSG refers a diagnostic test during which a number of physiologic variables are measured and recorded during sleep. Physiologic sensor leads are placed on the patient in order to record brain electrical activity eye and jaw muscle movement leg muscle movement airflow respiratory effort chest and abdominal excursion EKG and oxygen saturation Information is gathered from all leads and fed into a computer and outputted as a series of waveform tracings which enable the technician to visualize the various waveforms assign a score for the test and assist in the diagnostic process. The primary efficacy variable wake time during sleep WTDS and various secondary efficacy variables are all based on the PSG and are defined as follows.

 Wake Time During Sleep WTDS typically expressed in minutes is the number of wake events epochs after the onset of persistent sleep and prior to final awakening divided by two. Each epoch is defined as a 30 second duration on the PSG recording.

 Wake Time After Sleep WTAS typically expressed in minutes is the number of epochs after the final awakening until the end of PSG recording i.e. a wake epoch immediately prior to the end of the recording divided by two. If the patient does not have a wake epoch immediately prior to the end of the recording then WTAS is zero.

 Latency to Persistent Sleep LPS typically expressed in minutes is the number of epochs from the beginning of the PSG recording lights out to the start of the first 20 consecutive non wake epochs divided by two.

 Total Sleep Time TST typically expressed in minutes is the number of non wake epochs from the beginning of the PSG recording to the end of the recording divided by two.

 Sleep Efficiency SE is the TST divided by the time in bed 8 hours multiplied by 100 and expressed as a percentage. This also can be divided into SE for each third of the night of sleep reflecting the SE for each 160 minute time interval across the night. Finally SE can be measured for individual hours during the night or sleep period for example the final hour of the sleep period.

The term fragmented sleep can refer to interrupted sleep over a measurement period or sleep period for example the time a patient is awake during period of measurement. Fragmentation can occur as a result of multiple awakenings or one or more awakenings of a long duration.

The term prodrug refers to an agent that is converted into the active drug in vivo. Prodrugs are often useful because in some situations they may be easier to administer than the active drug. They may for instance be bioavailable by oral administration whereas the active drug is not. The prodrug may also have improved solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over the active drug. An example without limitation of a prodrug would be a compound of the present invention which is administered as an ester the prodrug to facilitate transmittal across a cell membrane where water solubility is detrimental to mobility but which then is metabolically hydrolyzed to the carboxylic acid the active entity once inside the cell where water solubility is beneficial. A further example of a prodrug might be a short peptide polyaminoacid bonded to an acid group where the peptide is metabolized to reveal the active moiety.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to an ionic form of a compound that does not cause significant irritation to an organism to which it is administered and does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound. Pharmaceutical salts can be obtained by reacting a compound of the invention with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid salicylic acid and the like. Pharmaceutical salts can also be obtained by reacting a compound of the invention with a base to form a salt such as an ammonium salt an alkali metal salt such as a sodium or a potassium salt an alkaline earth metal salt such as a calcium or a magnesium salt a salt of organic bases such as dicyclohexylamine N methyl D glutamine tris hydroxymethyl methylamine and salts with amino acids such as arginine lysine and the like.

The term low dose can refer to a daily dose range of between about 0.5 and 6 mg. In some embodiments daily dosages of low dose doxepin can be about 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 mg. These dosages have reduced side effects are surprisingly effective and have a relatively rapid onset. In one embodiment an initial daily dosage of about 1 mg can be given. If the desired improvement in sleep is not achieved then the dosage may be incrementally increased until the desired dosage is achieved or until a maximum desired dosage is reached which can be for example 2 mg 3 mg 4 mg 5 mg or 6 mg. It should be noted that other dosages of doxepin can be used in the embodiments described herein. For example the dosage can be about 0.5 to about 10 mg.

Doxepin HCl is a tricyclic compound currently approved and available for treatment of depression and anxiety. Doxepin has the following structure 

For all compounds disclosed herein unless otherwise indicated where a carbon carbon double bond is depicted both the cis and trans stereoisomers as well as mixtures thereof are encompassed.

Doxepin belongs to a class of psychotherapeutic agents known as dibenzoxepin tricyclic compounds and is currently approved and prescribed for use as an antidepressant to treat depression and anxiety. Doxepin has a well established safety profile having been prescribed for over 35 years.

Doxepin unlike most FDA approved products for the treatment of insomnia is not a Schedule IV controlled substance. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 502 047 and 6 211 229 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference describe the use of doxepin for the treatment chronic and non chronic e.g. transient short term insomnias at dosages far below those used to treat depression.

It is contemplated that doxepin for use in the methods described herein can be obtained from any suitable source or made by any suitable method. As mentioned doxepin is approved and available in higher doses 75 300 milligrams for the treatment of depression and anxiety. Doxepin HCl is available commercially and may be obtained in capsule form from a number of sources. Doxepin is marketed under the commercial name SINEQUAN and in generic form and can be obtained in the United States generally from pharmacies in capsule form in amounts of 10 25 50 75 100 and 150 mg dosage and in liquid concentrate form at 10 mg mL. Doxepin HCl can be obtained from Plantex Ltd. Chemical Industries Hakadar Street Industrial Zone P.O. Box 160 Netanya 42101 Israel Sifavitor S.p.A. Via Livelli 1 Frazione Mairano Italy or from Dipharma S.p.A. 20021 Baranzate di Bollate Milano Italy . Also doxepin is commercially available from PharmacyRx NZ 2820 1Avenue Castlegar B.C. Canada in capsule form in amounts of 10 25 50 75 100 and 150 mg. Furthermore Doxepin HCl is available in capsule form in amounts of 10 25 50 75 100 and 150 mg and in a 10 mg ml liquid concentrate from CVS Online Pharmacy Store CVS.com .

Also doxepin can be prepared according to the method described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 438 981 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. It should be noted and understood that although many of the embodiments described herein specifically refer to doxepin other doxepin related compounds can also be used including for example pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs metabolites in situ salts of doxepin formed after administration and solid state forms including polymorphs and hydrates.

In addition doxepin metabolites can be prepared and used. By way of illustration some examples of metabolites of doxepin can include but are not limited to desmethyldoxepin hydroxydoxepin hydroxyl N desmethyldoxepin doxepin N oxide N acetyl N desmethyldoxepin N desmethyl N formyldoxepin quaternary ammonium linked glucuronide 2 O glucuronyldoxepin didesmethyldoxepin 3 O glucuronyldoxepin or N acetyldidesmethyldoxepin. The metabolites of doxepin can be obtained or made by any suitable method including the methods described above for doxepin.

Desmethyldoxepin is commercially available as a forensic standard. For example it can be obtained from Cambridge Isotope Laboratories Inc. 50 Frontage Road Andover Mass. . Desmethyldoxepin for use in the methods discussed herein can be prepared by any suitable procedure. For example desmethyldoxepin can be prepared from 3 methylaminopropyl triphenylphosphonium bromide hydrobromide and 6 11 dihydrodibenz b e oxepin 11 one according to the method taught in U.S. Pat. No. 3 509 175 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

2 Hydroxydoxepin can be prepared by any suitable method including as taught by Shu et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1990 18 735 741 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Doxepin N oxide can be prepared by any suitable method. For example doxepin N oxide can be prepared as taught by Hobbs Biochem Pharmacol 1969 18 1941 1954 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

N acetyl N desmethyldoxepin can be prepared by any suitable means. For example E N acetyl N desmethyldoxepin has been produced in filamentous fungus incubated with doxepin as taught by Moody et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1999 27 1157 1164 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

N desmethyl N formyldoxepin can be prepared by any suitable means. For example E N desmethyl N formyldoxepin has been produced in filamentous fungus incubated with doxepin as taught by Moody et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1999 27 1157 1164 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

N acetyldidesmethyldoxepin can be prepared by any suitable means. For example E N acetyldidesmethyldoxepin has been produced in filamentous fungus incubated with doxepin as taught by Moody et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1999 27 1157 1164 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Didesmethyldoxepin can be prepared by any suitable means. For example Z and E didesmethyldoxepin have been isolated from plasma and cerebrospinal fluid of depressed patients taking doxepin as taught by Deuschle et al. Psychopharmacology 1997 131 19 22 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

3 O glucuronyldoxepin can be prepared by any suitable means. For example E 3 O glucuronyldoxepin has been isolated from the bile of rats given doxepin as described by Shu et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1990 18 1096 1099 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

2 O glucuronyldoxepin can be prepared by any suitable means. For example E 2 O glucuronyldoxepin has been isolated from the bile of rats given doxepin and also in the urine of humans given doxepin as described by Shu et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1990 18 1096 1099 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

N glucuronide can be obtained by any suitable means. For example doxepin N glucuronide can be prepared as taught by Luo et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1991 19 722 724 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As mentioned above the methods and other embodiments described herein can utilize any suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug of doxepin or salts or prodrugs of doxepin metabolites. Therefore the substitution or use in combination of salts and prodrugs is specifically contemplated in the embodiments described herein. The pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs can be made by any suitable method.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to an ionic form of a compound that does not cause significant irritation to an organism to which it is administered and does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound. Pharmaceutical salts can be obtained by reacting a compound of the invention with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid salicylic acid and the like. Pharmaceutical salts can also be obtained by reacting a compound of the invention with a base to form a salt such as an ammonium salt an alkali metal salt such as a sodium or a potassium salt an alkaline earth metal salt such as a calcium or a magnesium salt a salt of organic bases such as dicyclohexylamine N methyl D glutamine tris hydroxymethyl methylamine and salts with amino acids such as arginine lysine and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are more fully described in the following paragraph.

The acids that can be used to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include for example those that form non toxic acid addition salts i.e. salts containing pharmacologically acceptable anions such as the acetate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bisulfate bitartrate borate bromide calcium edetate camsylate carbonate chloride clavulanate citrate dihydrochloride edetate dislyate estolate esylate ethylsuccinate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride iodide isothionate lactate lactobionate laurate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylsulfate mucate napsylate nitrate oleate oxalate pamoate embonate palmitate pantothenate phospate diphosphate polygalacturonate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate tannate tartrate teoclate tosylate triethiodode and valerate salts.

The bases that can be used to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include for example those that form non toxic base addition salts i.e. base salts formed with metals or amines such as alkali and alkaline earth metals or organic amines. Non limiting examples of metals used as cations include sodium potassium magnesium calcium and the like. Also included are heavy metal salts such as for example silver zinc cobalt and cerium. Non limiting examples of suitable amines include N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamene N methylglucamine and procaine.

The term prodrug refers to an agent that is converted into the active drug in vivo. Prodrugs are often useful because in some situations they can be easier to administer than the active drug. They can for instance be bioavailable by oral administration whereas the active drug is not. The prodrug may also have improved solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over the active drug. An example without limitation of a prodrug would be a compound of the present invention which is administered as an ester the prodrug to facilitate transmittal across a cell membrane where water solubility is detrimental to mobility but which then is metabolically hydrolyzed to the carboxylic acid the active entity once inside the cell where water solubility is beneficial. A further example of a prodrug might be a short peptide polyaminoacid bonded to an acid group where the peptide is metabolized to reveal the active moiety. Examples of prodrug groups can be found in for example T. Higuchi and V. Stella in Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems Vol. 14 A.C.S. Symposium Series American Chemical Society 1975 H. Bundgaard Design of Prodrugs Elsevier Science 1985 and Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Theory and Application edited by E. B. Roche Pergamon Press New York 14 21 1987 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Some embodiments relate to methods for reducing or preventing premature awakening in a patient in need thereof. The methods can include the step of identifying a patient having a sleep disorder in which for a given sleep period of desired sleep for example an 8 hour period the patient experiences a sleep period that terminates prior to or during the final 60 minutes of the period and administering to the patient a dosage of doxepin that is effective to lengthen the sleep period preferably between about 1 and 6 mg. In some aspects the patient can experience a sleep period that terminates within the final 60 minutes 45 minutes 30 minutes or 15 minutes. In other aspects the sleep period can terminate even earlier for example during the final 90 minutes the final 120 minutes or longer. In some aspects the sleep period may be lengthened by administering low dose doxepin to extend the sleep period to terminate during or after hour 7 e.g. hour 7.5 of an 8 hour period of sleep. Also the patients can be identified as being in need of reduced wake time during or after sleep.

Further some embodiments relate to methods for improving fragmented sleep in the final hours of a sleep period for a patient preferably during the final hour or the 8hour of sleep. The methods can include for example the steps of identifying a patient suffering from or experiencing fragmented sleep during last hour or hours of a sleep period and administering to the patient doxepin in a dosage between about 1 mg and 6 mg. Preferably the methods can be used to reduce or improve fragmented sleep during the 8th hour of a sleep period. In some aspects the dosage of doxepin can be about 1 mg 3 mg or 6 mg.

Some embodiments relate to methods of using low dose doxepin to decrease WTAS in an individual who is prone to early awakenings. An individual with such a need can be identified and low doses of doxepin can be administered to the individual for example prior to the sleep period.

The methods described herein can be used to treat individuals suffering from a sleep disorder such as insomnia. The individual can suffer from a chronic insomnia or a non chronic insomnia. For chronic e.g. greater than 3 4 weeks or non chronic insomnias a patient may suffer from difficulties in sleep onset sleep maintenance interruption of sleep during the night by periods of wakefulness sleep duration sleep efficiency premature early morning awakening or a combination thereof. Also the insomnia may be attributable to the concurrent use of other medication for example. The non chronic insomnia can be for example a short term insomnia or a transient insomnia. The chronic or non chronic insomnia can be a primary insomnia or an insomnia that is secondary or attributable to another condition for example a disease such as depression or chronic fatigue syndrome. In some aspects the patient can be one that is not suffering from an insomnia that is a component of a disease or a patient can be treated that is otherwise healthy. As previously mentioned the chronic or non chronic insomnia can be a primary insomnia that is one that is not attributable to another mental disorder a general medical condition or a substance. In many cases such conditions may be associated with a chronic insomnia and can include but are not limited to insomnia attributable to a diagnosable DSM IV disorder a disorder such as anxiety or depression or a disturbance of the physiological sleep wake system. In some aspects the insomnia can be non chronic or of short duration e.g. less than 3 4 weeks . Examples of causes of such insomnia may be extrinsic or intrinsic and include but are not limited to environmental sleep disorders as defined by the International Classification of Sleep Disorders ICSD such as inadequate sleep hygiene altitude insomnia or adjustment sleep disorder e.g. bereavement . Also short term insomnia may also be caused by disturbances such as shift work sleep disorder.

In performing the methods doxepin a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of doxepin or prodrug of doxepin can be administered using any suitable route or method of delivery. Also doxepin a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or a prodrug thereof can be included and administered in a composition.

Suitable routes of administration include oral buccal sublingual transdermal rectal topical transmucosal or intestinal administration parenteral delivery including intramuscular subcutaneous intravenous intramedullary injections as well as intrathecal direct intraventricular intraperitoneal intranasal or intraocular injections.

For oral administration the compounds can be formulated readily by combining the active compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the compounds of the invention to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Administration though oral pathways can be accomplished for example using a capsule a tablet a granule a spray a syrup a liquid powder granules pastes e.g. for application to the tongue . Oral administration can be accomplished using fast melt formulations for example. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by mixing one or more solid excipient with pharmaceutical combination of the invention optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients are in particular fillers such as sugars including lactose sucrose mannitol or sorbitol cellulose preparations such as for example maize starch wheat starch rice starch potato starch gelatin gum tragacanth methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and or polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP . If desired disintegrating agents may be added such as the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.

Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally including sublingually include for example liquid solutions powders and suspensions in bulk or unit dosage forms. Also the oral formulations can include for example pills tablets granules sprays syrups pastes powders boluses pre measured ampules or syringes push fit capsules made of gelatin as well as soft sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as lactose binders such as starches and or lubricants such as talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active compounds may be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids such as fatty oils liquid paraffin or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition stabilizers may be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such administration.

For buccal administration the compositions may take any suitable form for example tablets or lozenges.

For topical administration the compounds may be formulated for administration to the epidermis as ointments gels creams pastes salves gels creams or lotions or as a transdermal patch. Ointments and creams may for example be formulated with an aqueous or oily base with the addition of suitable thickening and or gelling agents. Lotions may be formulated with an aqueous or oily base and will in general also containing one or more emulsifying agents stabilizing agents dispersing agents suspending agents thickening agents or coloring agents.

For injection the agents of the invention may be formulated in aqueous solutions preferably in physiologically compatible buffers such as Hanks s solution Ringer s solution or physiological saline buffer. For transmucosal administration penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art.

For administration by inhalation the compounds for use according to the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

The compounds may be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection may be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. The compositions may take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and may contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

Pharmaceutical formulations for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of the active compounds in water soluble form. Additionally suspensions of the active compounds may be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils such as sesame oil or synthetic fatty acid esters such as ethyl oleate or triglycerides or liposomes. Aqueous injection suspensions may contain substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sorbitol or dextran. Optionally the suspension may also contain suitable stabilizers or agents which increase the solubility of the compounds to allow for the preparation of highly concentrated solutions.

In addition any of the compounds and compositions described herein can also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations may be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus for example the compounds may be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt. Furthermore any of the compounds and compositions described herein also can be formulated as a fast melt preparation. The compounds and compositions can also be formulated and administered as a drip a suppository a salve an ointment an absorbable material such a transdermal patch or the like.

One can also administer the compounds of the invention in sustained release forms or from sustained release drug delivery systems. A description of representative sustained release materials can be found in the incorporated materials in 20ed Lippincott Williams Wilkens Publishers 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

A variety of techniques for formulation and administration can be found in 20ed Lippincott Williams Wilkens Publishers 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

As mentioned above doxepin pharmaceutically acceptable salts and or prodrugs of the same can be used alone or in combination with other substances such as for example other insomnia or sleep medications or with other medications that treat a primary illness. The doxepin alone or in combination can be included as part of a composition. The compounds and compositions can include any suitable form of the compound for pharmaceutical delivery as discussed in further detail herein.

The compositions and formulations disclosed herein also can include one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carrier materials or excipients. Such compositions can be prepared for storage and for subsequent administration. Acceptable carriers or diluents for therapeutic use are well known in the pharmaceutical art and are described for example in the incorporated material of 20ed Lippincott Williams Wilkens Publishers 2003 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The term carrier material or excipient herein can mean any substance not itself a therapeutic agent used as a carrier and or diluent and or adjuvant or vehicle for delivery of a therapeutic agent to a subject or added to a pharmaceutical composition to improve its handling or storage properties or to permit or facilitate formation of a dose unit of the composition into a discrete article such as a capsule or tablet suitable for oral administration. Excipients can include by way of illustration and not limitation diluents disintegrants binding agents adhesives wetting agents polymers lubricants glidants substances added to mask or counteract a disagreeable taste or odor flavors dyes fragrances and substances added to improve appearance of the composition. Acceptable excipients include lactose sucrose starch powder maize starch or derivatives thereof cellulose esters of alkanoic acids cellulose alkyl esters talc stearic acid magnesium stearate magnesium oxide sodium and calcium salts of phosphoric and sulfuric acids gelatin acacia gum sodium alginate polyvinyl pyrrolidone and or polyvinyl alcohol saline dextrose mannitol lactose lecithin albumin sodium glutamate cysteine hydrochloride and the like. Examples of suitable excipients for soft gelatin capsules include vegetable oils waxes fats semisolid and liquid polyols. Suitable excipients for the preparation of solutions and syrups include without limitation water polyols sucrose invert sugar and glucose. Suitable excipients for injectable solutions include without limitation water alcohols polyols glycerol and vegetable oils. The pharmaceutical compositions can additionally include preservatives solubilizers stabilizers wetting agents emulsifiers sweeteners colorants flavorings buffers coating agents or antioxidants. Sterile compositions for injection can be formulated according to conventional pharmaceutical practice as described in the incorporated material in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 20ed Lippincott Williams Wilkens Publishers 2003 . For example dissolution or suspension of the active compound in a vehicle such as water or naturally occurring vegetable oil like sesame peanut or cottonseed oil or a synthetic fatty vehicle like ethyl oleate or the like may be desired. Buffers preservatives antioxidants and the like can be incorporated according to accepted pharmaceutical practice. The compound can also be made in microencapsulated form. In addition if desired the injectable pharmaceutical compositions may contain minor amounts of nontoxic auxiliary substances such as wetting agents pH buffering agents and the like. If desired absorption enhancing preparations for example liposomes can be utilized.

The compositions and formulations can include any other agents that provide improved transfer delivery tolerance and the like. These compositions and formulations can include for example powders pastes ointments jellies waxes oils lipids lipid cationic or anionic containing vesicles such as Lipofectin DNA conjugates anhydrous absorption pastes oil in water and water in oil emulsions emulsions carbowax polyethylene glycols of various molecular weights semi solid gels and semi solid mixtures containing carbowax. Any of the foregoing mixtures may be appropriate in treatments and therapies in accordance with the present invention provided that the active ingredient in the formulation is not inactivated by the formulation and the formulation is physiologically compatible and tolerable with the route of administration. See also Baldrick P. Pharmaceutical excipient development the need for preclinical guidance. 32 2 210 8 2000 Charman WN Lipids lipophilic drugs and oral drug delivery some emerging concepts. 89 8 967 78 2000 Powell et al. Compendium of excipients for parenteral formulations PDA 52 238 311 1998 and the citations therein for additional information related to formulations excipients and carriers well known to pharmaceutical chemists.

One can also administer the compounds of the invention in sustained release forms or from sustained release drug delivery systems. A description of representative sustained release materials can be found in the incorporated materials in 20ed Lippincott Williams Wilkens Publishers 2003 .

As mentioned above in some embodiments the preferable dosage can be between about 1 mg and 6 mg. Preferably the dosage can be about 0.5 mg 1 mg about 2 mg about 3 mg about 4 mg about 5 mg or about 6 mg. It should be noted that in some embodiments the dosage can be between about 0.01 mg and 20 mg or between about 0.5 mg and 10 mg. Further the dosage can be about 7 mg about 8 mg about 9 mg or about 10 mg.

The selected dosage level can depend upon for example the route of administration the severity of the condition being treated and the condition and prior medical history of the patient being treated. However it is within the skill of the art to start doses of the compound at levels lower than required to achieve the desired therapeutic effect and to gradually increase the dosage until the desired effect is achieved. It will be understood however that the specific dose level for any particular patient can depend upon a variety of factors including the genetic makeup body weight general health diet time and route of administration combination with other drugs and the particular condition being treated and its severity. For the treatment of insomnia preferably one dose is administered prior to bedtime.

The selected dosage can also be determined by targeting a mean plasma concentration profile that has been associated with improvement in one or more PSG sleep variables including LPS WASO TST SE WTDS or WTAS . Examples of such plasma concentration profiles are shown in . The target plasma concentration profile may be achieved by any suitable route of administration including oral buccal sublingual transdermal rectal topical transmucosal or intestinal administration parenteral delivery including intramuscular subcutaneous intravenous intramedullary injections as well as intrathecal direct intraventricular intraperitoneal intranasal or intraocular injections using any suitable formulation.

 a A Grignard compound is prepared in the conventional manner from 4.8 g 0.2 gram atom magnesium in 100 mL ether and 30 g 34 ml 3 chloropropyl tertbutyl ether and 16.40 grams 0.078 mol 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepine 11 one dissolved in 100 mL ether is added in dropwise fashion so that the contents of the flask boil lightly. The mixture is heated for 1 hour with agitation in a reflux condenser to complete the reaction and then it is decomposed with ammonium chloride solution. The product which is obtained by separating drying and eliminating the solvent produced when the ether residue 24.0 g is extracted with ligroin amounts to 20.3 g 80.0 of theory of 11 tertbutoxypropyl 11 hydroxy 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepine having a melting point of 124 126 C. The 3 chloropropyl tertbutyl ether is thereafter obtained in the following manner 19 g 0.2 mol 1 chloropropanol 3 50 mL liquid isobutylene and 0.5 mL concentrated sulfuric acid are permitted to stand for 24 hours in an autoclave then are poured into excess sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted with ether. The ether solution is dried with calcium chloride and distilled. 23.6 grams of 3 chloropropyl tertbutyl ether having a boiling point of 150 156 C. 78 of theory are recovered.

30.8 grams of the 11 3 tertbutoxypropyl 11 hydroxy 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepine obtained according to a above and 150 ml absolute alcoholic hydrochloric acid are heated for 1 hour at ebullition. After removing the solvent by evaporation the residue is crystallized with ligroin 21.0 grams 88.5 of theory of 11 3 hydroxypropylidene 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepine having a melting point of 108 111 C. were obtained. After recrystallization from acetic acid ester the compound melts at 112 114 C.

 c 5.0 ml thionyl chloride dissolved in 5 mL benzene is added dropwise at room temperature to 12.6 g 0.05 mol of the 11 3 hydroxypropylidene 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepine obtained in part b above. After 1 hour of standing the contents of the flask are heated at ebullition for 2 hours. The volatile components are thereafter removed and the remainder distilled using high vacuum. The yield amounts to 10.6 g 78.5 of theory of 11 3 chloropropylidene 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepine having a B.P.0.1 169 172 C. a melting point of 106 111 C. After recrystallization from 20 ml of acetic acid ester 9.1 g 67.5 of theory of pure product having a melting point of 113 115 C. is obtained. The crude product can however be used quite easily for further processing.

 d 5.4 g 0.02 mol of the 11 3 chloropropylidene 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepine prepared according to c above in 20 mL tetrahydrofuran and 5.5 g 0.12 mol dimethylamine in 20 mL ethanol is heated together for 3 hours using a glass autoclave and a temperature of 95 100 C. boiling water bath . Water and 6 N hydrochloric acid are added to the contents of the autoclave and the mixture is extracted with ether. The separated aqueous acid components are then made alkaline with dilute caustic soda solution and the oil thereby separated is taken up in ether. The ether residue after distillation in a high vacuum produces 4.1 g 73.5 of theory of 11 3 dimethylamino propylidene 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepine having a B.P.147 150 C. The melting point of the hydrochloride is 182 184 C. recrystallized from isopropanol .

Desmethyldoxepin is prepared according to the following method. Anhydrous 3 methylaminopropyltriphenylphosphonium bromide hydrobromide 1530 g prepared as in U.S. Pat. No. 3 509 175 is suspended in 4.5 L dry tetrahydrofuran and 6.0 moles of butyl lithium in heptane is added during 1 hour. After an additional 30 minutes 483 g of 6 11 dihydrodibenz b e oxepin 11 one is added to the deep red solution and the reaction is maintained at reflux for 10 hours. Water 500 mL is added at room temperature and the solvent is removed in vacuo. The crude residue is treated with 10 hydrochloric acid until acidic pH 2 and then 1.5 L benzene is added. After stirring the mixture separates into three phases an insoluble hydrochloride salt product phase an aqueous phase and an organic phase . The benzene layer is removed by decantation and the remaining mixture is rendered basic with 10 sodium hydroxide solution and is extracted with 3 1500 mL portions of benzene. The benzene extracts are washed then dried with anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated in a vacuum leaving a solid residue of desmethyldoxepin.

 E Desmethyldoxepin is prepared from doxepin hydrochloride as follows. Doxepin hydrochloride E Z 85 15 55.0 g 0.174 mol is dissolved in 600 mL H2O made basic with 6M NaOH and extracted with CHC13 3 600 mL . The CHC3 extracts are combined dried over Na2SO4 and solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting oil is dissolved in 250 mL EtOH then 21.15 g 0.182 mol of maleic acid dissolved in 100 mL EtOH is added slowly with stirring followed by an additional 350 mL EtOH. The resulting cloudy solution is refluxed until it becomes clear then allowed to stand overnight at room temperature the resulting crystals are isolated by vacuum filtration. Additional recrystallization from EtOH yields a white crystalline product E Doxepin maleate with an E Z ratio of 98 2. E Doxepin maleate 2.50 g 6.32 mmol is then partially dissolved in 60 mL H20 made basic with 6M NaOH and extracted with CHC13 3 60 mL . The CHC13 extracts are combined washed with 60 mL brine dried over Na2SO4 and solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting oil is re dissolved in 10 mL CHC13 1.8 mL 13 mmol of triethylamine added 1.8 mL 13 mmol of 2 2 2 trichloroethylchloro formate added and reaction stirred under N2 for 3.5 hours. The completed reaction is then diluted with 140 mL Et2O washed successively with 0.5M HCl 2 140 mL H20 140 mL and brine 140 mL then dried over MgO4 and solvent removed in vacuo. Resulting material is further purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with EtOAc Hex 20 80 to afford 1.48 g 3.36 mmol of the desired product as a clear oil. The N protected E desmethyldoxepin intermediate 1.44 g 3.27 mmol is then dissolved in 12 mL THF 2.88 g of zinc powder added 2.3 mL of 1M sodium phosphate pH 5.5 added and reaction stirred for 17 hours. The reaction mixture is then vacuum filtered filtrate solvent removed in vacuo and resulting residue purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with THF MeOH NH4OH 85 15 0.4 then THF MeOH NH4OH 75 25 0.4 to afford 744 mg 2.80 mmol of the desired product as a pale yellow solid.

 Z Desmethyldoxepin is prepared from doxepin hydrochloride as follows. Doxepin hydrochloride E Z 85 15 100 g 0.317 mol is dissolved in 800 mL H2O made basic with 6M NaOH and extracted with CHC13 3 800 mL . The CHC13 extracts are combined dried over Na2SO4 and solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting oil is dissolved in 700 mL EtOH then 36.7 g 0.317 mol of maleic acid dissolved in 600 mL EtOH is added slowly with stirring. The resulting cloudy solution is refluxed until clear then allowed to stand overnight at room temperature. Crystals are isolated by vacuum filtration and the mother liquor saved. Crystals are recrystallized two additional times as above and the three mother liquors saved and combined and solvent removed in vacuo. Recrystallization of mother liquor material from refluxing EtOH eventually affords 24 g of a mother liquor product which is 65 Z isomer in composition. Recrystallization of this material from 450 mL EtOH gives crystals 9.1 g which are 80 Z isomer. This material is recrystallized from 170 mL CHCl3 CCl4 50 50 at 4 C. yielding 7.65 g of crystalline material which is 87 Z isomer in composition. Three additional recrystallizations from CHC13 CHC14 eventually affords 5.12 g 12.9 mmol of the desired product Z Doxepin maleate with an E Z ratio of 4 96 melting point 162 163 C. Z Doxepin maleate 1.00 g 2.53 mmol is then partially dissolved in 35 mL H2O made basic with 6M NaOH and extracted with CHC13 3 35 mL . The CHC13 extracts are combined washed with 35 mL brine dried over Na2SO4 and solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting oil is re dissolved in 4 mL CHC13 0.65 mL 4.7 mmol of triethylamine added 0.65 mL 4.7 mmol of 2 2 2 trichloroethyl chloroformate added and reaction stirred under N2 for 3.5 hours. The completed reaction is then diluted with 50 mL Et2O washed successively with 0.5M HCl 2 50 mL H20 50 mL and brine 50 mL then dried over MgO4 and solvent removed in vacuo. Resulting material is further purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with EtOAc Hex 20 80 to afford 710 mg 1.61 mmol of the desired product as a clear oil. The N protected Z desmethyldoxepin 679 mg 1.54 mmol is then dissolved in 5.7 mL THF 1.36 g of zinc powder added 1.1 mL of 1M sodium phosphate pH 5.5 added and reaction stirred for 17 hours. The reaction mixture is then vacuum filtered filtrate solvent removed in vacuo and resulting residue purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with THF MeOH NH40H 85 15 0.4 then THF MeOH NH4OH 82 18 0.4 to afford 364 mg 1.37 mmol of the desired product as a pale yellow solid.

A mixture of 2 methoxy 11 3 dimethylaminopropyl 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepin 165 mg 0.005 mol with glacial acetic acid 0.2 ml and hydriodic acid 0.2 mL 57 was stirred and heated for 5 hr at 90 C. The product was then extracted and purified by pouring into ice water 25 mL made alkaline with sodium hydroxide 2N and extracted with ether 2 10 mL . The aqueous layer was then adjusted to pH 6.8 with hydrochloric acid 6N . The mixture was then brought to pH 7 by the addition of sodium bicarbonate solution 5 and extracted with chloroform 2 10 mL . The extract was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give a yellowish solid. The crude reaction product was purified by preparative TLC chloroform toluene methanol ammonia 4 3 2 1 v v .

A mixture of Z 2 Hydroxy 11 3 dimethylaminopropylidene 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepin 2.5 mg 8.5 10mol was dissolved in a mixture of hydrochloric acid 1 mL and methanol 9 mL and heated at 140 C. oil bath for 4 hr. The product was isolated by means of HPLC and evaporation of solvents.

A mixture of 2 methoxy 11 3 methylaminopropyl 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepin 0.005 mol with glacial acetic acid 0.2 ml and hydriodic acid 0.2 ml 57 is stirred and heated for 5 hr at 90 C. The product is then extracted and purified by pouring into ice water 25 mL made alkaline with sodium hydroxide 2N and extracted with ether 2 10 mL . The aqueous layer is then adjusted to pH 6.8 with hydrochloric acid 6N . The mixture is then brought to pH 7 by the addition of sodium bicarbonate solution 5 and extracted with chloroform 2 10 mL . The extract is dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo to give a yellowish solid. The crude reaction product is purified by preparative TLC chloroform toluene methanol ammonia 4 3 2 1 v v .

A mixture of Z 2 Hydroxy 11 3 methylaminopropylidene 6 11 dihydrodibenzo b e oxepin 2.5 mg is dissolved in a mixture of hydrochloric acid 1 ml and methanol 9 ml and heated at 140 C. oil bath for 4 hr. The product is isolated by means of HPLC and evaporation of solvents.

An aqueous solution of doxepin hydrochloride was made alkaline and extracted with methylene chloride. Solvent was removed and the residue dissolved in methanol was treated for 5 days with an excess of 30 hydrogen peroxide. Chromatographic examination indicated that the doxepin had been completely replaced by a more polar substance determined from its mass spectrum to be the N oxide.

Hobbs D. C. Distribution and Metabolism of Doxepin 1969 Biochem Pharmacol 18 1941 1954 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

An aqueous solution of purified Z doxepin hydrochloride is made alkaline and extracted with methylene chloride. Solvent is removed and the residue dissolved in methanol is treated for 5 days with an excess of 30 hydrogen peroxide. Chromatographic examination indicates that the doxepin has been completely replaced by a more polar substance determined from its mass spectrum to be the N oxide of the Z isomer of doxepin.

An aqueous solution of purified E doxepin hydrochloride is made alkaline and extracted with methylene chloride. Solvent is removed and the residue dissolved in methanol is treated for 5 days with an excess of 30 hydrogen peroxide. Chromatographic examination indicates that the doxepin has been completely replaced by a more polar substance determined from its mass spectrum to be the N oxide of the E isomer of doxepin.

 E N acetyl N desmethyldoxepin E N desmethyl N formyldoxepin and E N acetyldidesmethyldoxepin are isolated from as described in the incorporated materials of Moody et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1999 27 1157 1164 . Briefly cultures of ATCC 9245 are incubated for 48 h at 26 C. on a rotary shaker operating at 125 rpm and then 10 mg of doxepin hydrochloride E. Z ratio 83 16 dissolved in 0.5 ml sterile physiological saline solution are added. After 96 h of incubation the contents of each flask are filtered through glass wool into a separatory funnel and extracted with three equal volumes of ethyl acetate. The organic extracts are dried over sodium sulfate and evaporated to dryness in vacuo at 34 C. The residue is dissolved in methanol and concentrated to approximately 100 L by evaporation for analysis by HPLC.

The extract is injected repeatedly into a semipreparative scale HPLC system consisting of a Beckman model 100A pump a Waters 486 turntable UV absorbance detector and a Shimadzu model CR601 Chromatopac integrator. The compounds are eluted using a linear gradient of 30 to 75 methanol buffer v v over 30 min at 1.0 ml min with a 10.0 250 mm column. The buffer used is 25 mM ammonium acetate pH 7.2. Compounds with similar retention times are pooled. NMR and mass spectral analysis confirms the isolation of E N acetyl N desmethyldoxepin E N desmethyl N formyldoxepin and E N acetyldidesmethyldoxepin.

 Z N acetyl N desmethyldoxepin Z N desmethyl N formyldoxepin and Z N acetyldidesmethyldoxepin are isolated from as described above in Example 12 for the E isomers. However unlike Example 13 the cultures are initially incubated with doxepin enriched for the cis Z isomer of doxepin at a Z E ratio of greater than 85 15. NMR and mass spectral analysis confirms the isolation of Z N acetyl N desmethyldoxepin Z N desmethyl N formyldoxepin and Z N acetyldidesmethyldoxepin.

 E and Z N didesmethyldoxepin are isolated from blood serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients treated with doxepin according to the methods described in the incorporated materials of Deuschle et al. Psychopharmacology 1997 131 19 22 . Briefly blood and cerebrospinal fluid are collected from patients being treated with doxepin. After centrifugation 15000 g for 5 min 100 l of the samples is injected directly onto a clean up column 10.0 4.0 mm filled with Lichrospher RP 8 DIOL. Interfering plasma or CSF constituents are washed to waste using water containing 5 acetonitrile at a flow rate of 1.5 ml min. After 5 min the flow is switched onto an analytical column and the drugs of interest are separated using methanol acetonitrile 0.008M phosphate buffer pH 6.4 188 578 235 V V for elution. NMR and mass spectral analysis confirms the isolation of E N didesmethyldoxepin and Z N didesmethyldoxepin.

 E 2 glucuronyldoxepin and E 3 O glucuronyldoxepin are isolated from rat bile according to the methods described in the incorporated materials of Shu et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1990 18 1096 1099 . Briefly samples of rat bile are collected from rats for 4 hours after intraperitoneal injection with doxepin hydrochloride 28 mg kg . The samples are chromatographed on a gradient HPLC system that consists of two solvent delivery pumps Waters M045 a system controller Waters Model 720 a UV absorbance detector Waters Model 441 and an integrator Hewlett 3390A . Chromotography is carried out on a column packed with Spherisorb nitrile 3 m 0.46 15 cm and maintained at 50 C. The analysis begins with an initial isocratic period 1 min with 95 solvent A water and 5 solvent B acetonitrile methanol 75 25 v v . Thereafter a linear gradient elution is established by increasing the proportion of solvent B from 5 to 100 from 1 to 16 min followed by a final period 4 min of isocratic elution with 100 solvent B. The flow rate is 1.5 ml min and UV absorbance is monitored at 254 nm with a sensitivity of 0.005 AUFS. NMR and mass spectral analysis confirms the isolation of E 2 O glucuronyldoxepin and E 3 O glucuronyldoxepin.

 Z 2 O glucuronyldoxepin and Z 3 O glucuronyldoxepin are isolated from rat bile according to the methods described above in Example 16 with the exception that the rats are injected with doxepin enriched for the cis Z isomer of doxepin at a Z E ratio of greater than 85 15. NMR and mass spectral analysis confirms the isolation of Z 2 O glucuronyldoxepin and Z 3 O glucuronyldoxepin.

The quaternary ammonium linked glucuronide of doxepin doxepin N glucuronide is obtained by organic synthesis as described in the incorporated materials of Luo et al. Drug Metabolism and Disposition 1991 19 722 724 . Briefly the synthetic procedure involves quaternization of commercial samples of doxepin with methyl 2 3 4 tri O acetyl 1 bromo 1 deoxy D glucopyranosid urinate and subsequent removal of the protecting groups by treatment with sodium hydroxide. Thus to prepare the Z isomer of doxepin N glucuronide Z doxepin is used as the starting material. To prepare the E isomer of doxepin E doxepin is used as the starting material.

A Phase II randomized multi center double blind placebo controlled four period crossover dose response study was designed to assess the effects of doxepin 1 mg 3 mg and 6 mg compared with placebo in patients aged 65 years or older with primary sleep maintenance insomnia. Patients received a single blind placebo for two consecutive nights during the PSG screening period and double blind study drug for two consecutive nights during each of the four treatment periods. Following each study drug administration patients had 8 continuous hours of PSG recording in the sleep center. Patents were allowed to leave the sleep center during the day after each PSG assessment was complete. A 5 or 12 day study drug free interval separated each PSG assessment visit. The duration of study participation per patient was approximately 7 to 11 weeks.

Patients who qualified for study entry based on the screening PSG assessments were randomized to a treatment sequence using a Latin square design. A final study visit was performed for patients either after completion of the four treatment periods or upon discontinuation from the study. Efficacy assessments were made at each visit and safety assessments were performed throughout the study.

Seventy one patients were included in the per protocol analysis set. The main inclusion criteria were male and or female patients aged 65 years or older in good general health with at least a 3 month history of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders fourth Edition DSM IV defined primary insomnia reporting each of the following on four of seven nights prior to PSG screening 6.5 hours of total sleep time TST 60 min of wakefulness after sleep onset WASO and 20 min of latency to sleep onset LSO . Additionally patients must have met the following entry criteria based on PSG assessments during the screening PSG period wake time during sleep WTDS 60 min with no PSG screening night 240 min and 410 min on both PSG screening nights latency to persistent sleep LPS 10 min on both PSG screening nights 

The primary efficacy assessment was WTDS. Secondary efficacy assessments included WASO TST SE and WTAS. All objective efficacy assessments were performed on Night 1 and Night 2

Efficacy analyses used the per protocol PP the primary analysis set sets. The PP analysis set included all patients who did not have important protocol derivations that would likely have effected the evaluation of efficacy and who provided WTDS data from each of the four treatment periods. The primary and secondary efficacy analyses were based on the PP analysis set.

Within each treatment period the average of the two data points was used for analysis if applicable. The primary efficacy variable WTDS as well as the secondary objective parameters was analyzed using an analysis of variance ANOVA model with terms for sequence patient within sequence treatment and period. Pairwise comparisons of each active treatment versus placebo were performed using Dunnett s test. All randomized patients who received at least one dose of double blind study medication were included in the safety analyses which were based on observed data.

The secondary PSG efficacy assessments are summarized in Table 1. WASO exhibited a statistically significant decrease at the doxepin 1 mg p

SE was also analyzed for each hour of the night. The results are summarized in . Also Table 2 summarizes the data for hours 7 and 8. With the exception of the hour 1 value for 1 mg all three doxepin doses had numerically increased SE at each hour throughout the night compared to placebo with statistically significant increased SE at several time points in the 3 and 6 mg dose levels. At the doxepin 6 mg dose level SE exhibited statistically significant increases at hours 2 4 5 6 7 and 8. At the doxepin 3 mg dose level SE exhibited statistically significant increases at hours 5 6 7 and 8. At the doxepin 1 mg dose level SE exhibited statistically significant increases at hours 5 and 6.

Doxepin 1 mg 3 mg and 6 mg demonstrated efficacy on sleep maintenance parameters in elderly patients 65 years of age and older with primary sleep maintenance insomnia which appeared to be dose related. Efficacy in delaying premature final awakenings was also demonstrated for doxepin 1 mg 3 mg and 6 mg as evidenced by statistically significant reductions in WTAS at the doxepin 3 mg and 6 mg dose levels and numerical reductions at the doxepin 1 mg dose level all compared to placebo. Also efficacy in improving fragmented sleep at hours 7 and 8 was demonstrated for doxepin 1 mg 3 mg and 6 mg as evidenced by statistically significant increases in SE at hours 7 and 8 in the doxepin 3 mg and 6 mg dose levels and numerical reductions at 1 mg all compared to placebo. All doxepin doses were well tolerated and demonstrated an adverse effect profile similar to placebo. There were no significant effects observed on next day residual sedation. Sleep architecture was generally preserved.

A Phase II randomized multi center double blind placebo controlled four period crossover dose response study was designed to assess the effects of doxepin 1 mg 3 mg and 6 mg compared with placebo in patients with primary sleep maintenance insomia.

Patients received a single blind placebo for two consecutive nights during the PSG screening period and double blind study drug for two consecutive nights during each of the four treatment periods. Following each study drug administration patients had 8 continuous hours of PSG recording in the sleep center. Patents were allowed to leave the sleep center during the day after each PSG assessment was complete. A 5 or 12 day study drug free interval separated each PSG assessment visit.

Patients who qualified for study entry based on the screening PSG assessments were randomized to a treatment sequence using a Latin square design. A final study visit was performed for patients either after completion of the four treatment periods or upon discontinuation from the study. Efficacy assessments were made at each visit and safety assessments were performed throughout the study.

Sixty one patients were included in the per protocol analysis set. The main inclusion criteria were male and or female patients aged 18 to 64 years in good general health with at least a 3 month history of DSM IV defined primary insomnia reporting each of the following on four of seven nights prior to PSG screening 6.5 hours of total sleep time TST 60 min of WASO and 20 min of LSO. Additionally patients must have met the following entry criteria based on PSG assessments during the screening PSG period WTDS 60 min with no PSG screening night 240 min and 410 min on both PSG screening nights LPS 10 min on both PSG screening nights 

The primary and secondary efficacy assessments were as described above in Example 1. All objective efficacy assessments were performed on Night 1 and Night 2 of each treatment period. Statistical methods were as described in Example 1.

The secondary PSG efficacy assessments are summarized in Table 3. SE exhibited statistically significant increases at all three dose levels of doxepin 1 mg p 0.0004 3 mg p

SE was also analyzed for each hour of the night. The results are summarized in . All three doxepin doses had numerically increased SE at each hour throughout the night compared to placebo with statistically significant increased SE at several time points in the 3 and 6 mg dose levels. All three doxepin doses had significantly increased SE during the seventh and eighth hour of the night. The data for hours 7 and 8 are summarized in Table 4.

Doxepin 1 mg 3 mg and 6 mg demonstrated efficacy on sleep maintenance parameters in adult patients with primary sleep maintenance insomnia. Doxepin 1 mg 3 mg and 6 mg demonstrated efficacy in preventing or delaying premature final awakenings as evidenced by significant reductions in WTAS at the doxepin 6 mg dose level and numerical reductions at the doxepin 1 mg and 3 mg dose levels all compared to placebo. Also efficacy in improving fragmented sleep at hours 7 and 8 was demonstrated for doxepin 1 mg 3 mg and 6 mg as evidenced by significant improvement to SE at hours 7 and 8 in all three doses all compared to placebo. All doxepin doses were well tolerated and demonstrated an adverse effect profile similar to placebo. There were no significant effects on clinically meaningful alterations observed on next day residual sedation and sleep architecture.

A Phase III randomized double blind placebo controlled parallel group multicenter study was performed to assess the efficacy and safety of Doxepin HCl at two dosages 3 mg and 6 mg in primary insomnia patients with sleep maintenance difficulties. Patients with a 3 month history of primary insomnia according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fourth Edition Text Revision DSM IV TR defined primary insomnia were enrolled.

This was a randomized double blind placebo controlled parallel group study designed to assess the efficacy and safety of two dose levels of doxepin 3 mg and 6 mg in subjects with primary insomnia and sleep maintenance difficulties. Efficacy and safety assessments were conducted throughout the study. Doxepin 3 mg and 6 mg capsules and placebo capsules were provided as a single dose for oral administration. Sleep efficiency SE was evaluated. Data were analyzed as randomized and based on observed cases.

Subjects were females and males 18 to 64 years of age inclusive with at least a 3 month history of primary insomnia as defined in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders Fourth Edition Text Revision who reported experiencing 60 minutes of Wake After Sleep Onset WASO 20 minutes of Latency to Sleep Onset LSO and 6.5 hours of Total Sleep Time TST on at least 4 of 7 consecutive nights prior to PSG Screening.

Additional Objective Variables Additional efficacy variables obtained during each PSG recording night during the Double blind Treatment Period were Wake Time During Sleep WTDS TST Sleep Efficiency SE overall SE by third of the night SE by hour of the night Latency to Persistent Sleep LPS latency to Stage 2 sleep Number of Awakenings After Sleep Onset NAASO Total Wake Time TWT Wake Time After Sleep WTAS and sleep architecture including percentage and minutes of Stage 1 2 and 3 4 sleep percentage of rapid eye movement REM and non REM sleep and latency to REM sleep .

Subjective Variables Subjective efficacy variables were subjective TST sTST subjective WASO sWASO LSO subjective NAASO sNAASO and sleep quality. These variables were assessed using a questionnaire completed in the morning following each PSG recording night. Drowsiness ability to function and total nap time during the day were assessed using an evening questionnaire completed on Night 2 Night 16 and Night 30. Other secondary subjective efficacy variables included the 2 item Clinical Global Impressions CGI scale for severity and therapeutic effect completed by a clinician the 5 item CGI scale pertaining to therapeutic effect completed by the subject the Insomnia Severity Index ISI completed by the subject and a subjective assessment of average nightly total sleep time following administration of the study drug at home.

A total of 229 subjects were randomized into the study 76 to placebo 77 to 3 mg and 76 to 6 mg . These groups were comparable with respect to weight height gender and baseline sleep characteristics. A total of 203 89 subjects completed the study with comparable early termination rates across treatment groups.

Of the 229 randomized subjects 203 89 completed the study and 26 11 withdrew from the study. Early termination rates and baseline characteristics were comparable across treatment groups. The study population was female 73 and male 27 . The mean age was 44.5 years. Subjects were White 48 Black African American 33 Hispanic 16 Asian 1 and Other 2 .

Mean WASO on Night 1 was statistically significantly decreased by approximately 25 to 30 minutes following administration of doxepin 3 mg and 6 mg compared with placebo. Additionally the mean WASO was statistically significantly decreased by approximately 15 to 20 minutes in each doxepin group compared with placebo through 29 nights of treatment. Similar results for WASO were observed for the average of Nights 1 15 and 29 as well as for the means of the paired study nights Nights 1 and 2 Nights 15 and 16 and Nights 29 and 30 .

There were consistent statistically significant improvements for doxepin 3 mg and 6 mg compared to placebo in SE second third of night and SE final third of night. In particular SE at hours 7 and 8 of the 8 hour period of sleep surprisingly exhibited statistically significant increases by treatment with low dose doxepin. These results are shown in Tables 5 7 respectively. The results also are graphically depicted in .

There were statistically significant increases in mean SE overall on Night 1 for the doxepin groups compared with placebo and Night 29 3 mg and 6 mg groups . Additionally there were statistically significant increases in mean SE overall for the average of Nights 1 15 and 29 for each doxepin group compared with placebo.

Statistically significant improvements in the mean SE value from the final third of the night on Night 1 were observed for each doxepin group 3 mg and 6 mg compared with placebo and were sustained on Night 15 3 mg and 6 mg groups and Night 29 6 mg group .

Sleep efficiency by hour of the night on Night 1 adjusted for multiple comparisons using Dunnett s test is displayed in .

Sleep efficiency by hour of the night for each doxepin group 3 mg and 6 mg compared with placebo was improved significantly at most assessment timepoints on Night 1 including Hour 8 p

The mean SE in Hour 8 was 87.8 and 88.4 for the doxepin 3 mg and 6 mg groups respectively versus 74.5 for the placebo group as presented in Table 8.

A Phase III Randomized Double Blind Placebo Controlled Parallel Group Multicenter Study was conducted to assess the efficacy and safety of doxepin HCl for the treatment of transient insomnia in adult subjects.

This randomized double blind placebo controlled parallel group single dose study was designed to evaluate the effects of doxepin 6 mg in adult subjects. A laboratory adaptation model i.e. first night effect combined with a 3 hour phase advance was implemented to induce transient insomnia in healthy adult subjects.

Subjects were healthy females and males 25 to 55 years of age inclusive with an Epworth Sleepiness Scale score 12 at screening and a 3 month history of normal nightly sleep. Eligibility also was determined using protocol defined criteria based on sleep diary information obtained during the 7 day period before randomization.

Primary Efficacy Variable The primary efficacy variable was Latency to Persistent Sleep LPS on Night 1.

Key Secondary Efficacy Variable The key secondary efficacy variable was Wake After Sleep Onset WASO on Night 1.

Additional Objective Variables Additional PSG variables obtained on Night 1 were Total Sleep Time TST Total Wake Time TWT overall and by hour of the night Sleep Efficiency SE overall by third of the night by hour of the night and last quarter of the night latency to Stage 2 sleep Wake Time During Sleep WTDS Wake Time After Sleep WTAS Number of Awakenings After Sleep Onset NAASO overall and by hour of the night and sleep architecture including percentages and minutes of Stage 1 2 and 3 4 sleep percentages and minutes of rapid eye movement REM sleep and non REM sleep and latency to REM sleep.

Subjective Variables Subjective variables obtained from a questionnaire completed during the morning of Day 2 were Latency to Sleep Onset LSO subjective TST sTST subjective NAASO sNAASO subjective WASO sWASO and sleep quality.

All 565 randomized subjects 282 in the placebo group and 283 in the doxepin 6 mg group completed the study. Demographic and other baseline characteristics were similar between the two treatment groups. Subjects were female 55 and male 45 . The mean age was 35.5 years. Subjects were White 50 Hispanic 32 Black African American 15 Asian 1 Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander 

Administration of doxepin 6 mg resulted in statistically significant improvements in LPS primary efficacy variable and WASO on Night 1 key secondary efficacy variable when compared with placebo. Improvements in LPS and WASO were independent of gender and race ethnicity.

There were statistically significant improvements in the objective efficacy variables including TST TWT SE latency to Stage 2 sleep WTDS and WTAS following administration of doxepin 6 mg when compared with placebo. The analyses by hour of the night for SE and TWT were statistically significant for doxepin 6 mg compared with placebo at all timepoints. Improvements in TWT were distributed evenly across all hours of the night for the doxepin 6 mg group.

There were no clinically meaningful effects for doxepin 6 mg on sleep architecture sleep stages were preserved compared with placebo. Minutes spent in Stage 2 and Stage 3 4 sleep were greater in the doxepin 6 mg group than in the placebo group with no difference between treatment groups in minutes spent in REM sleep.

Step down Procedure for Primary and Key Secondary Efficacy Variables Comparison of the doxepin 6 mg group to placebo with respect to LPS was statistically significant. Therefore the comparison with respect to WASO was performed. Similarly there was a statistically significant improvement in WASO following administration of doxepin 6 mg when compared with placebo.

Sensitivity Analyses for Primary and Key Secondary Efficacy Variables For both sensitivity analyses for LPS and WASO results for the doxepin 6 mg group compared with placebo were statistically significant p

Subjective Efficacy Variables There were statistically significant improvements in all subjective efficacy variables LSO sTST sWASO sNAASO and sleep quality on Day 2 following administration of doxepin 6 mg when compared with placebo.

Administration of doxepin 6 mg when compared with placebo resulted in statistically significant and clinically meaningful effects on objective measures and all subjective measures used in this study to assess sleep onset sleep maintenance and prevention of early morning awakenings. Doxepin 6 mg was safe and well tolerated following single dose administration with an AE profile comparable to placebo.

Statistically significant effects on multiple objective and subjective measures of sleep maintenance including WASO key secondary efficacy variable TST SE overall SE by hour of the night WTDS TWT overall TWT by hour of the night sTST and sWASO. Results for the objective and subjective assessments were consistent although in some instances i.e. TST and WASO the subjective ratings underestimated the magnitude of effects seen with the PSG measures of the same variables.

Statistically significant improvements in preventing early morning awakenings as assessed using PSG variables including SE in Hours 7 and 8 WTAS and SE in the last quarter of the night.

The number of awakenings and TWT were distributed evenly across the hours of the night for doxepin after Hour 1.

There were no reports of potentially anticholinergic AEs or memory impairment associated AEs in the doxepin 6 mg group.

There were no clinically meaningful mean changes noted in laboratory test values vital sign measurements ECGs physical examinations or neurological assessments. There was a low incidence of AEs associated with laboratory values in both treatment groups.

There was a statistically significant improvement in the mean SE overall for the doxepin 6 mg group compared with the placebo group. The LS mean SE was greater improved for the doxepin 6 mg group by 10.6 compared with the placebo group. The SE results are shown in Table 11.

There was a statistically significant improvement in mean SE for the final third of the night for the doxepin 6 mg group compared with placebo. The LS mean SE was 9.5 greater improved for the doxepin 6 mg group compared with the placebo group.

A summary of SE in the last quarter of the night by treatment group using the ITT analysis set is presented in Table 12.

There was a statistically significant improvement in mean SE in the last quarter of the night for the doxepin 6 mg group compared with the placebo group. The LS mean SE in the last quarter of the night was 10.4 greater improved for the doxepin 6 mg group compared with the placebo group.

Sleep Efficiency by hour for the doxepin 6 mg group compared with placebo was statistically significantly improved at all timepoints p

Many modifications and variations of the embodiments described herein may be made without departing from the scope as is apparent to those skilled in the art. The specific embodiments described herein are offered by way of example only.

