---

title: Method and device for air disinfection and sterilization
abstract: A method for decontaminating bioaerosol with high concentrations of bacterial, viral, spore and other airborne microorganisms or biologic contaminants, in flight at high flow rates. A plasma screen created across the flow of air contaminated with airborne biologic agents renders contaminants non-culturable within millisecond. The technology may cooperate with heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) systems. It may be particularly beneficial in preventing bioterrorism and the spread of toxic or infectious agents, containing airborne pandemic threats such as avian flu, sterilizing spaces such as hospitals, pharmaceutical plants and manufacturing facilities, treating exhaust ventilation streams, minimizing biological environmental pollutants in industrial settings, improving general air quality, and preventing sick building syndrome.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08334422&OS=08334422&RS=08334422
owner: Drexel University
number: 08334422
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070815
---
This application is the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2007 075973 filed Aug. 15 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 822 885 filed Aug. 18 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 871 045 filed Dec. 20 2006 the entire disclosure of each application is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was reduced to practice with Government support a U.S. Army Medical Research Acquisition Activity Cooperative Agreement W81XWH 04 1 0419. The Government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this invention.

This invention is directed to a method and device for decontaminating high concentrations of bacterial bioaerosols viral bioaerosols and other airborne microorganisms in flight at high flow rates. The invention is particularly applicable to the Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC industry and bioterrorism defense industry.

The escalating threat of airborne biologic and bioterrorism agents present a need for robust technologies and methods to mitigate the spread of airborne contaminants. Events such as the avian flu pandemic the 1976 Legionnaires outbreak in Philadelphia and the 2001 anthrax terrorism in the United States demonstrate the ability to rapidly spread biologic contaminants through ventilation systems.

To address these concerns scientists are focusing on non thermal plasma based technologies which have previously proven successful in deactivating microorganisms such as viruses and bacteria in solution and on surfaces. Plasma has proven to be useful as a microbial disinfectant in many surface sterilization studies and it can be delivered with low power consumption as a non thermal discharge that is relatively easy to construct requiring simple power supplies.

Decontamination of microorganisms in flight using non thermal plasma technology however has not been effectively implemented. Plasma based air decontamination has only been found effective when coupled with high efficiency particulate air HEPA filters which trap and kill microorganisms. HEPA filters however are inefficient at trapping submicron sized airborne microorganisms. Moreover HEPA filters also cause significant pressure losses in heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems generating high energy and maintenance costs. The filters function as a surface on which contaminants are captured therefore the prior art methodologies are in essence the same as standard plasma surface sterilization. Numerous technologies such as those disclosed in Chinese Patent no. 02655913Y U.S. Patent application publication no. 2004 0037736A1 and International patent application publication nos. WO 03 063914 A2 WO 05 067984 and WO 06 003382 A1 similarly sterilize air by directing plasma emissions at a filter surface which entraps the biologic contaminants.

Apart from treatments in solution or on surface there remains a need to develop a means for in flight plasma based decontamination so as to be able to deactivate microorganisms in the air while in motion. This may be particularly useful for sterilizing ventilation systems and preventing the spread of airborne biologic agents.

In Michael J. Gallagher et. al. Non Thermal Plasma Applications in Air Sterilization August 2005 a non thermal plasma emission device and method for treating airborne biologic contaminants was proposed but neither tested nor sufficiently described such that one of ordinary skill in the art would be able to reproduce the proposed technology and in flight plasma sterilization methodology. The publication discloses a calibration test using a Pathogen Detection and Remediation Facility PDRF incorporating a plasma emission device such as a Dielectric Barrier Discharge DBD device or a Magnetically Rotated Gliding Arc MRGA device. The calibration experiment involved emission of cyanobacterial aerosol to identify bioaerosol losses from diffusion inertia and evaporation to establish accurate controls before applying non thermal plasma. Additionally the publication proposes but does not describe sterilization experiments with cyanobacteria and influenza A virus. The publication does not apply plasma to the cyanobacteria calibration experiments.

Based on the known efficiency of plasma based sterilization technology it is unexpected that it would be possible to render a substantial proportion of biologic agents inactive in flight in a short time such as milliseconds using non thermal plasma. By comparison DBD surface sterilization treatment times are often 1000 times longer on the order of seconds and in some cases even minutes in duration.

Therefore it would be desirable to develop a method capable of efficiently sterilizing airborne biologic agents within a period of milliseconds.

The invention is directed to a method for sterilizing biologic agents in a gaseous media. In one aspect the invention is a method for treating culturable in a moving air stream at high airflow rates with plasma so as to achieve a substantial reduction in active bacteria within a period of milliseconds.

In another aspect the invention is directed to a method for effectively sterilizing concentrated bacterial bioaerosols in a moving air stream at high airflow rates with plasma.

In another aspect the invention cooperates with a Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC system for one or more of the purposes of preventing bioterrorism preventing the spread of contagious or toxic agents containing airborne pandemics sterilizing spaces and buildings treating exhaust ventilation streams minimizing environmental pollutants improving general air quality and preventing sick building syndrome.

Non thermal plasma is an electrically neutral mixture of atoms molecules electrons and ions that cannot be described by one temperature. Average energy of electrons in non thermal plasma is usually on the level of more than 1 electron volt cV 1 eV corresponds to temperature of about 11 600 K while average translational temperature of heavy particles ions molecules and atoms is much less usually below 3 000 K and often is very close to ambient room temperature e.g. 20 C.

For the purpose of this invention it is possible to consider a biological agent as an active one if it is capable of reproduction or proliferation so called culturable microorganisms in a special appropriate media or in human organism. If microorganism is not able to reproduce itself is not culturable it is highly probable that it cannot harm another organism even if its structure is mechanically intact and thus such microorganisms are considered to be inactivated.

This invention is directed to a method for sterilizing biologic contaminants entrained dispersed or suspended in a gaseous media at high flow rates by plasma emissions and a system for carrying out the method.

One system of the invention may include a Pathogen Detection and Remediation Facility PDRF and a plasma emission device which renders biologic contaminants non culturable. The PDRF as shown in is a specialized plug flow reactor that is capable of circulating and sampling a gaseous media as well as bioaerosol generation capture and containment. It is designed to operate at high airflow rates of about 25 L s or greater which are typical for indoor ventilation systems. A centrifugal blower drives and circulates the contaminated gaseous media through a mixing chamber and ventilation line . In a preferred embodiment the PDRF is a closed system that allows for humidity control which may be set to optimize sterilization capabilities. The air pressure and temperature within the line is regulated by a pressure release value and hygrometer thermometer . One of the primary advantages of the PDRF recirculating airflow system the ability to repeatedly treat bioaerosols entrained dispersed or suspended in a gaseous media recirculating through the plasma emission device . The system also includes a bioaerosol nebulizer and compressed air source for the purposes of introducing a sample of biologic contaminants entrained dispersed or suspended in a gaseous media.

The plasma emission device may include any mechanism capable of producing plasma in a directed air or aerosol stream. In a preferred embodiment the device may be a Dielectric Barrier Discharge ventilation grating DBDG plasma device or a Magnetically Rotated Gliding Arc MRGA device. shows a DBDG device which includes a pair of comb like electrodes inserted one into another DBDG consists of two comb like gratings grills inserted one into another. 1 mm wires of one grating are covered with quartz capillaries of 2 mm outer diameter and connected to a high voltage AC power supply . There are 1.5 mm air gaps between these insulated wires and 1 mm bare wires of the second grating that are grounded. When high voltage AC power supply is on non equilibrium plasma is generated in the air gaps between bare and insulated wires connected to a high voltage source air sampling ports connected to a set of liquid impingers and a vacuum source .

In a preferred embodiment a DBD device is use to generate plasma. The DBD is an alternating current discharge between two electrodes at least one of which is covered by a dielectric. DBD plasma can be formed in the gas filled area otherwise known as the discharge gap between one electrode and a dielectric or between two dielectrics. The DBD is driven by an applied alternating high voltage several kilovolts which generates a high electric field between the electrodes . In the absence of a dielectric the discharge starting from the first spark would rapidly progress to an arc as the electrons in the spark would initiate a series of ionization events leading to very high current and ultimately to arc formation. The dielectric prevents arc formation by accumulating charge on the surface and generating an electric field that opposes the applied field thereby limiting the current and preventing development of an uncontrolled discharge. Alternating high voltage polarities ensures formation of this discharge in each half of the voltage cycle.

Usual DBD devices operate in the kilohertz range so plasma between the electrodes does not have enough time to extinguish completely. In one embodiment the non thermal plasma discharge is generated by a high frequency oscillation of high voltage that is from about 1 to about 20 000 kHz optionally from about 5 to about 30 kHz and a peak to peak voltage of about 1 to about 50 kV optionally from about 5 to about 30 kV.

As a gaseous media in which biologic contaminants are entrained dispersed or suspended is introduced into the DBD device through an entry port a quasi sinusoidal waveform as shown in is generated by a quasi pulsed high voltage source and applied across the electrode gaps generating a high electric field and non equilibrium plasma that covers the whole area between electrodes . The period between pulses is approximately 600 s peak to peak voltage is 28 kV and current reaches nearly 50 amps in a pulse. The average power of the discharge is approximately 330 watts and considering the discharge area of 91 cm the power density is 3.6 watts cm. The majority of power is discharged in the very short duration of the pulse itself which has a period of 77 s and average pulse power of 2618 W. Since the residence time of a bioaerosol particle passing through the discharge area is 0.73 ms and the period between pulses is 0.6 ms this means that each bioaerosol particle that passes through the DBD discharge experiences about 1 pulse of DBD discharge power assuming the discharge is fairly uniform and gaps between streamers are not considered. The air passes through the plasma stream and leaves the DBD through an exit port . In a preferred embodiment the plasma curtain that is created should not have large holes e.g. larger than distance between DBD surfaces. The time between high voltage pulses that generate plasma should not be significantly larger then the residence time of air in plasma t Sd Q where S is the free area where plasma is generated d is the thickness of the bare electrodes and Q is the air flow rate. The power should be sufficient to provide the desired degree of sterilization.

The higher the power the greater the degree of sterilization. For example an instantaneous decrease in concentration of a factor of 30 is observed at an energy input of about 330 W 25 l s 13.2 J l joule per liter . Thus about 27 J l should provide a 3 log reduction in concentration 9 J l should provide a 1 log reduction and 54 J l should provide a 6 log reduction in plasma. Additional sterilization may also occur in the post plasma treatment flow. Accordingly preferred ranges for operation are about 3 100 J l and more preferably 5 30 J l.

The method of the present invention involves sterilizing biologic contaminants entrained dispersed or suspended in a gaseous media by circulating contaminated gaseous media through a stream of plasma. Microorganisms are rendered inactive within milliseconds and the contaminants do not have to adhere or contact a surface to enable sterilization. Flow rates can be increased by increasing input power. The residence time should be sufficient to ensure that at least one current pulse occurs during the residence time to thereby ensure plasma treatment of all flow. More preferably the time between plasma generation pulses should be less than the residence time and more preferably less than half the residence time. In comparison to currently known methods for air sterilization the present invention enables sterilization of biologic agents in a gaseous flowing media without the use of filters or other sterilization surfaces. This is unexpected since plasma sterilization in a gaseous flowing media is significantly more difficult and challenging than sterilization in solution or on a surface because of the very short residence time of microorganisms in the plasma zone. The methods of the prior art are therefore unable to explain the single run 2 log reduction in viable population. Additionally based on the prior art and theoretical models one of ordinary skill in the art would expect efficiency returns of in flight plasma based sterilization to be no more than about 15 after one application of plasma emission for the experiment described above. The 97 efficiency of bacteria inactivation shown in is therefore quite surprising. Moreover the invention only requires a minimal amount of energy for operation resulting in low operational costs.

Experimental experience shows that is very difficult to create bio contamination in large volume of air with concentration higher than 1 000 000 particles per 1 liter. Thus a 5 or greater log reduction should be sufficient to prevent consequences of a biological attack. In other cases pandemic sick building syndrome disinfection may typically be accomplished by a 3 or greater log reduction.

It is envisioned that this technology will be used to improve air ventilation and sterilization by deactivating airborne microorganisms. The technology is particularly well suited for applications in heating ventilation and air conditioning HVAC systems. More specifically the invention may be used in the bioterrorism defense industry to prevent the spread of toxic or infectious agents contain airborne pandemics such as avian flu sterilize various spaces such as hospitals pharmaceutical plants and manufacturing facilities treat exhaust ventilation streams minimize environmental pollutants in industrial settings improve general air quality and prevent sick building syndrome.

The PDRF system shown in is a bioaerosol treatment facility designed to provide a recirculating gaseous media environment. Because the PDRF system is capable of recirculating airflow bioaerosols entrained dispersed or suspended in the gaseous media can be treated with repeated passes through the same plasma discharge. Additionally a sealed recirculating system allows for complete control over relative humidity inside the system which is important because even small fluctuations in relative humidity have been shown to significantly decrease the survivability of airborne bacteria. The PDRF system was designed as a plug flow reactor such that airflow inside the system is turbulent minimizing radial variation of the bacterial concentration in the airflow.

The PDRF system has a total volume of 250 liters and is designed to operate at high airflow rates of at least 25 L s which is typical of indoor ventilation systems. The system has an inlet with an attached Collison nebulizer for bioaerosol generation and two air sampling ports connected to a vacuum air sampling system. The system also has a large mixing chamber that contains a series of aluminum baffle plates and a variable speed centrifugal blower motor that drives the air through the DBD treatment chamber . The residence time that is the time for one bioaerosol particle to make one complete revolution through the system is approximately 10 seconds.

The DBD device shown in may include of a thin plane of wires with equally spaced air gaps of 1.5 mm and each second wire is a high voltage electrode . The high voltage electrodes are about 1 mm diameter copper wires shielded with a quartz capillary dielectric that has an approximate wall thickness of 0.5 mm. The total area of the DBD including electrodes is 214.5 cmand without electrodes is 91.5 cm. The DBD device further has two air sample ports located at a distance of 10 cm from each side of the discharge area so that bioaerosol can be sampled immediately before and after it enters the plasma discharge. When the PDRF system is operated at a flow rate of 25 L s the air velocity inside the DBD chamber is 2.74 m s and the residence time of one bioaerosol particle containing one bacterium passing through the DBD is approximately 0.73 milliseconds.

The DBD device is operated using a quasi pulsed power supply that delivers a quasi sinusoidal voltage waveform with a very fast rise time that nearly simulates a true square wave pulse as shown in . The period between pulses is approximately 600 s peak to peak voltage is 28 kV and current pulses that pass through air plasma reach 50 amps. The average power of the discharge is approximately 330 watts. The average discharge area is approximately 91 cm and the average power density is 3.6 watts cm. The majority of power is discharged in the very short duration of the pulse itself which has a period of 77 s and average pulse power of 2618 W. Since the residence time of a bioaerosol particle passing through the discharge area is 0.73 ms and the period between pulses is 0.6 ms assuming the discharge is fairly uniform and there are no gaps between streamers each bioaerosol particle that passes through the DBD experiences about 1 pulse of DBD power.

The effectiveness of the present method was tested on K 12 strain . The present invention was found to effectively render 99 of the viable inactive.

Each culture of K 12 strain used in this study was prepared in a 250 ml flask containing LB growth medium and was incubated overnight for about 12 hours at 37 C. with constant mixing on a water bath shaker. The culture was then centrifuged at 3500 rpm for a period of 10 minutes and rinsed with a sterile phosphate buffered saline PBS solution 1 concentration . This procedure was repeated three times to ensure complete removal of growth medium and to concentrate the culture to a volume of 45 ml for nebulization.

After the PDRF system was pre sterilized using the internal heating system and pre humidified to a relative humidity of about 70 the bacteria culture was placed into a BGI 24 jet Collison nebulizer and the nebulizer was operated at 40 psi for a period of 45 seconds at a nebulization rate of about 1.1 ml min. The DBD device was then switched on for a period of 10 seconds and the first two air samples were immediately and sequentially taken before and after plasma treatment. The discharge time of 10 seconds was selected to correspond with the residence time of the bioaerosol to make one complete revolution in the PDRF system. The samples measure the decontamination effectiveness of DBD on a per pass basis ensuring that each bioaerosol particle has been treated once by the discharge. Another set of air samples was taken approximately 2 minutes later to accommodate the amount of time required to remove and replace the air samplers with the next set of pre sterilized samplers. This process was repeated again until the typical number of air samples approximately six was achieved. Each of the pre sterilized air samplers was initially filled with 30 ml of sterile PBS solution and after sampling each solution was transferred to a sterile 50 ml centrifuge tube for assaying.

Following each experiment liquid samples from each impinger were transferred to 50 ml centrifuge tubes and serially diluted in PBS plated onto LB agar plates and incubated at 37 C. overnight. Visible colonies were counted and recorded within the following 24 hour period.

Additionally a fluorescent method of bacteria detection flow cytometry was also employed to detect the presence of in each air sample taken during experiments. It is important to verify the presence of inactivated bacteria because it eliminates the possibility that DBD could act as an electrostatic precipitator which could charge the bioaerosol droplets and remove them from the airflow inside the PDRF system. Whereas colony counting techniques are limited to detecting only viable bacteria flow cytometry is capable of detecting the presence of bacteria whether it is viable or inactivated. This technique utilizes two fluorescent dyes SYBR Green I to detect the presence of all bacteria dead and alive and propidium iodide PI to detect the bacteria with disintegrated cyto plasmic membranes.

The cytometry results show that DBD plasma is acting not as an electrostatic precipitator but as a device capable of decontaminating high concentrations of bacterial bioaerosol in flight at high flow rates in a laboratory scale ventilation system.

An interesting yet unexpected decrease in bacterial concentration is shown between samples 2 and 3 of the DBD treated trial in which the number of viable bacteria dropped to zero. It is not immediately clear how such a drastic change could have occurred especially since the plasma discharge was turned off during this period. Additionally it is not fair to claim that this second drop in concentration is an additional 4 log reduction because the sampling system efficiency is low 6 3 and zero bacteria present in the air samplers could mean that there are indeed viable bacteria present in the system but its out of the range of our detection limits.

Having described the preferred embodiments of the invention which are intended to be illustrative and not limiting it is noted that modifications and variations can be made by persons skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments of the invention disclosed which are within the scope and spirit of the invention as outlined by the appended claims. Having thus described the invention with the details and particularity required by the patent laws the intended scope of protection is set forth in the appended claims.

