---

title: Gathering and using awareness information
abstract: Systems, methods, and user interfaces for gathering and using awareness information with common awareness functionality accessible to multiple applications are disclosed. Such systems, methods, and user interfaces may aggregate awareness information from multiple sources and provide awareness data and other derived information to multiple destinations. In some implementations, such systems and methods may provide additional functionality related to awareness information, such as common user interfaces that display awareness information or mechanisms for determining the relevance of particular pieces of awareness information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08954507&OS=08954507&RS=08954507
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08954507
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070622
---
In one or more computing devices in a group of computing devices it may be useful to have or provide the capability of being aware of a wide variety of events actions and the like. For example a user may communicate with other people using an instant messaging application. Such an application may indicate when the user s friends or contacts are say online offline in a telephone call in a meeting and so on. In so doing the instant messaging application may enable the user to be aware of the availability or status of the user s friends or contacts. In another example a collaboration application might manage and perhaps synchronize files or documents that are part of a workspace or group. Such a collaboration application might also provide information to a user about the actions of other users in the workspace or group such as when some other user opens a particular document or file when another user views or modifies information about the workspace itself and so on.

While at least some applications may exist that manage awareness information such as information about activities and events it may be the case that such information is maintained or managed by a single or particular application. For example a user s availability status may be maintained and accessible using an instant messaging application perhaps in tandem or also through the use of a variety of for example instant messaging or communications servers information about a task a user is performing may be managed by a collaboration application and so on. Because different applications may manage particular types or pieces of awareness information it may be difficult to aggregate or provide a general or holistic view of for example a particular user s actions across different applications events associated with a particular computing device or application and so on. Furthermore each application that accesses awareness data may be required to individually implement functionality to gather manage and use such awareness information.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and does not identify key or critical elements of the invention or delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Described herein are various techniques and technologies directed toward gathering and using awareness information with common or general awareness functionality accessible to multiple applications. When a common awareness system or module is available multiple applications may for example provide awareness data to the common awareness system. Such awareness data including awareness data aggregated from multiple applications may then be managed by the common awareness system and perhaps communicated by the common awareness system to other applications on the same computing device and also possibly communicated to other computing devices. The same or another application on the same or another computing device may retrieve or use awareness information provided and managed by the common awareness system and so may not need to implement extensive functionality relating to managing and using awareness information itself. At least some exemplary awareness systems may also provide additional functionality related to awareness data such as common user interfaces that display awareness information or mechanisms for determining the relevance of particular pieces of awareness data to particular users or computing devices.

Described herein are various techniques and technologies directed toward gathering and using awareness information with common or general awareness functionality accessible to multiple applications. More particularly in at least some implementations when a common awareness system or module is available multiple applications may for example provide awareness data to the common awareness system. Such awareness data including awareness data aggregated from multiple applications may then be managed by the common awareness system and perhaps communicated by the common awareness system to other applications on the same computing device and also possibly communicated to other computing devices. The same or another application on the same or another computing device may retrieve or use awareness information provided and managed by the common awareness system and so may not need to implement extensive functionality relating to managing and using awareness information itself. At least some exemplary awareness systems may also provide additional functionality related to awareness data such as common user interfaces that display awareness information or mechanisms for determining the relevance of particular pieces of awareness data to particular users or computing devices.

Turning now to shown therein is an exemplary system in which awareness data may be gathered and used. The exemplary system contains a device endpoint A a device endpoint B a device endpoint X and a server endpoint . The exemplary device endpoint A is shown as containing an awareness system which in turn is associated with a data gather module a data storage module a data relevance module an API module and a user interface module . The exemplary device endpoint A is also shown as including an operating system shell an application A and an application B . This description of may be made with reference to other figures. However it should be understood that the elements described with reference to are not intended to be limited to being used with the elements described with reference to other figures. In addition while the exemplary diagram in indicates particular elements in some implementations not all of these elements may exist and in some implementations additional elements may exist.

Generally an awareness system such as the exemplary awareness system may include modules or components that implement at least in part functionality associated with the management and use of awareness data. In at least some implementations such an awareness system may provide functionality to multiple entities such as multiple applications or processes that may run or execute on an exemplary computing device including the exemplary computing device that implements an endpoint such as the device endpoint A or some other endpoint. For example applications like the application A and the application B may originate generate or otherwise provide awareness data that may be managed or maintained by the awareness system. Such awareness data may then be used by for example the operating system shell or another application.

Generally awareness data may be understood to include any data or information that may be used as part of being aware of or having or obtaining knowledge of particular actions or events. Such data may include for example information about changes to the state of a particular application user device or piece of data such as a file or document . Awareness data might also or instead generally include information about the state of an application user device or piece of data. For example in some implementations at least some awareness data may include information about the status or availability of a user such as whether the user is online offline in a telephone call in a meeting performing some other action and so on. In the same or other implementations awareness data might include information about the status of a device such as whether the device is connected to a network is not connected to a network or available currently has spare processing power available or other information associated with the state of the device. In the same or yet another exemplary implementation awareness data may include information about whether a particular application or process is in use is not in use is up to date or has an available update that has not yet been applied and so on. In the same or yet another exemplary implementation awareness data may include information about a particular piece of data such as information about a file a document particular records in a database and so on. For example awareness data might include information about whether a particular file is currently being viewed or edited. Further in some of such cases or in other cases awareness data might include additional information such as the part or parts of the document that are being viewed or edited the user or users that are viewing or editing the document the specific actions each user is performing with respect to the document the computing device or endpoint on which each user is viewing or editing the document and so on.

While in some cases awareness data may include just information associated with one type of entity such as information associated with a user when the awareness data comprises the user s availability status in other cases awareness data may include a collection of information associated with multiple entities including one or more users one or more applications one or more devices one or more pieces of data such as documents or files and so on. One example of an implementation where awareness data comprises a collection of information might include for example the previously introduced awareness data that might be associated with a document where the awareness data might include information about the document itself as well as information including users that are viewing or editing the document the endpoints on which users are viewing or editing the document the application users are using to view or edit the document and so on.

Awareness data may also include other information such as for example a timestamp associated with a particular action event state change or the like. For example such other information might include the time at which a document was opened the time at which a document was first modified the time at which a document was modified again the time at which a user became available and so on.

At least some implementations of an awareness system may include a data gather module . An exemplary data gather module may provide functionality associated with tracking gathering or obtaining awareness data. The data gather module may then store such gathered awareness data in at least some implementations using the data storage module . Some data gather modules may obtain awareness data in one or more different ways including by observing changes by being provided with changes or by using common data structures that might also be used by other applications. In some implementations of the operational flow described below with reference to an exemplary data gather module may implement at least part of for example the operation .

In some implementations at least some awareness data may be gathered through one or more types of observation including through observation of entities such as applications that may not have knowledge that they are being observed. For example in some cases a computer operating system may provide notifications to an executable process one that perhaps has registered with the operating system to receive notifications when a particular file is opened closed modified and so on. With such an operating system and also in at least some other implementations a data gather module may register to be notified when one or more events related to particular files or directories occur. In at least some cases that such notifications are being provided to a registered process may not be known to for example the application that performed the action associated with the file or document. A variety of the same or other mechanisms for observing actions or events that occur on a device may be used by an exemplary data gather module to gather awareness data.

In addition to observing actions a data gather module may also provide the capability for other executable processes applications and the like to pro actively provide awareness data to the data gather module. In one example of such an implementation a data gather module might provide one or more application programming interfaces APIs that other processes applications and the like may use by calling functions and so on to provide awareness or other data to an awareness system or to a data gather module. In some implementations such an API might be provided by or associated with an exemplary API module including the API module . In some implementations an application or the operating system might use such an API to provide information to a data gather module that may be maintained internally by the application or operating system and that might otherwise be inaccessible to the data gather module. For example a word processing application might call such an API and provide awareness data such as for example user 1 is viewing paragraph 14 or user 2 modified paragraph 27 to include the text ABC and so on. In some cases such an API may enable an application that is written to use the API the capability of providing more detailed or granular awareness data than a data gather module might otherwise be able to obtain through other methods such as by observing the application.

In the same or yet other implementations a data gather module might obtain awareness data by using or accessing data that is also used by an application or the operating system. For example in an implementation where an application might store application data using one or more files objects or other data structures and the data structures are accessible to a data gather module the data gather module might obtain at least some awareness data by accessing the same files objects or data structures used by the application. For example when an application makes a change to a file or object to store new information a data gather module may obtain awareness data from the file or object about the change and might also obtain awareness data perhaps about the application about the user that made the application and so on.

An exemplary data storage module may store and provide access to awareness data using a wide variety of possible means for storing data including one or more databases files in a file system and so on. In some implementations the data storage module may use storage means that are local to the computing device on which the data storage module is implemented such as a local database while in the same or other cases the data storage module may use storage means that include one or more remote storage locations. Such remote storage locations might include for example one or more servers in the cloud or computing devices or endpoints that provide storage functionality to other computing devices located or accessible for example using one more computing networks of a variety of types. In some implementations an exemplary server endpoint might provide at least some functionality of this type in addition to possibly providing other functionality. In some implementations a data storage module might also store data on other endpoints including endpoints such as the exemplary device endpoint B or the device endpoint X . Such endpoints might for example be connected and exchange data using one or more mechanisms including peer to peer data communication mechanisms or one or more centralized server endpoints.

In at least some implementations a data relevance module such as the exemplary data relevance module may determine the relevance of or level of interest in awareness data obtained for example by the data gather module . In at least some implementations including those where the data gather module obtains a relatively large amount of awareness data not all of the data may be equally relevant or interesting for example to a particular user or other entity. Furthermore if a user or other entity is made aware of every action or event the awareness data that is truly more interesting may in some cases not be noticed or not be given the attention it might deserve. To avoid such possible problems and for other reasons a data relevance module may examine awareness data managed by or known to an awareness system as well as in some cases other context information such as the user or other entity for which relevance is being determined and determine that particular pieces of awareness data are more relevant or interesting for one or more reasons. As just one example awareness data that a particular document is being viewed by another user may be more interesting to the author of the document than it would be to a user that has never viewed the document. In another example the knowledge that another user is viewing a document that is also currently being viewed by the user might be more interesting than knowledge that an unrelated document is being viewed. In yet another example knowledge that a user on a friends list just became available may be more relevant or interesting than knowledge that some other user has become available. A wide variety of mechanisms for determining the relevance of awareness data are described elsewhere herein. In some implementations of the operational flow described below with reference to an exemplary data relevance module may implement at least part of for example the operation and one or more of the techniques described with reference to operation may be used when determining the relevance of awareness data.

In some implementations a data relevance module may determine varying levels of relevance in addition to just determining if a particular action or event is relevant or not relevant. As just one of many possible examples a particular action or change might be determined to be very relevant another action or change might be determined to be somewhat relevant and yet another action or change might be determined to be not relevant. Such varying levels of relevance may then be used in a variety of ways including as part of determining how a user might be notified of relevant actions events or changes through one or more user interfaces as part of the information possibly provided using one or more APIs and so on. For example in at least one implementation a user might have the ability to express how at least some awareness data may be presented or how the user may be notified of relevant awareness data. For example a user might specify that the most relevant awareness data should be displayed in a pop up dialog or a notification pane that appears on top of other applications and user interfaces and that displays the most relevant awareness data that has been gathered across the system from multiple applications processes and so on. Somewhat relevant awareness data may be added for example to a master list of awareness data in the same notification pane but the notification pane might not actually be displayed until the user specifically takes an action such as clicking a button to display the notification pane. Even less relevant awareness data may not be added to a master list but may instead for example only be shown to a user in a particular context that may relate to the particular awareness data. For example a less relevant change to a particular document might result in a user interface that includes an unread mark of some kind associated with that document. In some implementations such an unread mark may only be visible to a user when the user views a user interface associated with the location in which the document is stored or accessed may only be visible when using an application that displays documents of that type and so on.

An exemplary embodiment of an API module may include one or more APIs that provide the ability for other executable processes or applications to interact programmatically with the awareness system . In some implementations for example and as introduced previously an API module might include one or more APIs such as functions or methods that enable other processes or applications to provide the awareness system generally and possibly the data gather module specifically with awareness data. In some implementations such an API may enable another entity to provide awareness data that the data gather module might not otherwise be able to obtain.

In the same or other implementations an API module might provide APIs that expose information maintained or generated by the awareness module. For example an API module might provide the ability for other processes or applications to query or obtain awareness or relevance data maintained or generated by the awareness system. With such an implementation an application might for example query the awareness system for awareness data that is related say to a particular application a particular user or users a particular piece of data such as a document or file and so on. The querying application might then use the awareness data that is provided in a variety of ways including as part of providing its own user interface that displays at least some portion of the awareness data or in a variety of other processing that uses awareness data including updating other data stores and so on. Some APIs provided by an exemplary API module may be generally used on a particular endpoint or computer device while the same or other APIs may in some implementations be provided to other computing devices including computing devices connected to the API module by one or more networks. For example another computing device might access an API module using one or more web service interfaces or other network programming techniques or systems.

An exemplary awareness user interface module may implement at least in part executable code to generate or display one or more user interfaces related to awareness information. For example a user interface provided by an awareness system might include a notification pane or other user interface that displays actions or events that have been determined perhaps through the use of a data relevance module to be relevant or interesting to a user. One exemplary implementation of a user interface that might be associated with an awareness user interface module might be a notification pane user interface such as the notification pane discussed in more detail below with reference to . In the same or another exemplary implementation a companion pane or other similar user interface may be provided by a user interface module and linked or associated in some manner with an existing application. For example an exemplary companion pane including possibly the companion pane user interface described below with reference to FIG. might be implemented as a window that may be displayed next to or near another application and in such a case or in other cases may display awareness data that has been determined to be relevant and that is related to or associated in some way with the application.

It should be noted that an exemplary user interface module may not be the only provider or implementer of user interfaces that include awareness data or information derived or generated using awareness data and that other applications processes and so on may also provide user interfaces that incorporate or display such data. For example in some implementations one or more user interfaces or other functionality provided by an exemplary operating system shell may include or display awareness information. In the same or other implementations applications may access and include awareness data in their own user interfaces. In either of these examples the awareness data may be obtained or retrieved in one or more of a variety of ways including possibly through the use of an API module or perhaps by directly retrieving awareness data from a data storage module .

An exemplary operating system shell may include a variety of functionality associated with and provided by an operating system in use on the device endpoint A including in some implementations functionality that uses the awareness system . In some implementations such functionality might include enhancements to existing user interfaces provided by the operating system shell as well as possibly entirely new user interfaces. Such functionality may also include access to awareness data or information made available through other mechanisms that do not include a user interface including through programmatic interfaces such as APIs provided by the operating system shell. Some exemplary implementations of possible user interfaces that use awareness data and might be provided by an operating system shell are described below in more detail with reference to for example and without limitation and . It should also be noted that that the operating system shell should not be interpreted to only include functionality that might typically be associated with for example a command line shell environment such as the BASH shell or the C shell and may include a variety of graphical and other functionality.

An exemplary device endpoint like the device endpoint A may include a variety of applications that use the awareness system including the exemplary application A and the exemplary application B . Such applications might obtain or access awareness data in a variety of ways including possibly through the use of an exemplary API module or by accessing a data storage module and might similarly display or use the retrieved awareness data in a variety of ways including as part of a user interface provided by the application or in application processing including processing that is not associated with a user interface .

The exemplary device endpoint A is shown as connected to the device endpoint B and the device endpoint X . Generally awareness functionality like that provided by an awareness system may be implemented on a variety of types of computing devices including device endpoints server endpoints and general computing devices including those described in more detail below with reference to . Endpoints may similarly communicate with each other through a variety of communication means including communication means described below with reference to such as wired networks wireless networks the physical exchange of data such as might be implemented using portable storage like a USB thumbdrive or the like and so on. Furthermore in at least some implementations a device endpoint might be of a type that might not typically be considered to be a computing device including devices that include only minimal computing or communication functionality. For example in one implementation one or more of a variety of household appliances such as washing machines refrigerators ovens and so on might each be a device endpoint and have at least some capabilities associated with or related to awareness data including perhaps the ability to generate awareness data and communicate awareness data to another endpoint.

In at least some environments one or more endpoints that may include an awareness system may be owned operated or in some way associated with the same user. For example the device endpoint A and the device endpoint B are both shown in as being associated with an exemplary user 1. A variety of information including awareness data as well as also other information like perhaps files or documents may be synchronized replicated or at least accessible on multiple endpoints associated with the same user. In addition the same information or some subset or superset of the information may be communicated with or accessible to or from one or more endpoints associated with a second user including the exemplary device endpoint X that is shown in as being associated with user 2. In at least some implementations although not shown the device endpoint B and the device endpoint X might also include an awareness system.

Some or all of the device endpoints might also communicate with one or more server endpoints including the exemplary server endpoint . Such a server endpoint might provide a variety of functionality to one or more of the device endpoints. For example a server endpoint might provide a data storage location that might be used by a device endpoint as an alternative location for data created or maintained by a particular user or device endpoint or for other data including data shared by a variety of users applications or devices. In some implementations a server might provide an awareness system itself and might for example store awareness data determine the relevance of awareness data and communicate or provide the awareness data and other related information to one or more device endpoints.

Turning now to shown therein is an exemplary generalized operational flow including various operations that may be performed when gathering and using awareness data. The following description of may be made with reference to other figures. However it should be understood that the operational flow described with reference to is not intended to be limited to being used with the elements described with reference to these other figures. In addition while the exemplary operational flow of indicates a particular order of execution in one or more alternative embodiments the operations may be ordered differently. Furthermore while the exemplary operational flow contains multiple steps it should be recognized that in some implementations at least some of these operations may be combined or executed contemporaneously and in the same or other implementations some steps may not be executed.

In an exemplary implementation of operation awareness data may be gathered from one or more of a variety of sources. For example on a computing device that runs an operating system and hosts multiple processes and applications awareness data might be gathered from multiple applications as well as possibly from the operating system itself. In at least some implementations operation may be implemented at least in part by an exemplary data gather module like that introduced previously with reference to . Awareness data may be gathered in a variety of ways including by observation of applications or the operating system by receiving awareness data provided pro actively by applications or the operating system and by the use of common data. Awareness data may also be received in some implementations from a variety of other systems or computing endpoints. For example information about at least some actions or events that take place on say another device endpoint may be communicated and gathered by at least some implementations of operation .

In an exemplary implementation of operation the relevance of awareness data may be determined. While the relevance of a particular piece of awareness data such as a particular action event or change may be determined in a variety of ways in at least some implementations relevance may be determined generally at least in part through the use of the awareness data and other context information. As used herein such context information may generally be defined to be information or data about the entity for which relevance is being determined. For example when determining whether an action or event is relevant to a particular user context data might include information that is associated with or related to the particular user. Such context information might include for example activities the user is currently or has previously performed documents files or data that the user is currently or has previously viewed modified or otherwise accessed other users with which the user is currently communicating with whom the user has previously communicated or that are associated with data or other actions the user has taken or is taking whether the user has previously demonstrated or is currently demonstrating an interest in an action event or data and so on. In some implementations at least some of such context information might be used to predict actions the user might take in the future data the user might access in the future and so on and such predicted actions data and the like might also be included in the context information used when determining relevance.

For example in some implementations the current activity being performed by a user may be used as part of determining the relevance of awareness data. If say the user is currently viewing or modifying a particular document then some other modification of the same document by another user may be determined to be more relevant than say the modification of some other unrelated document. If a user is currently communicating with a particular other user perhaps through the use of instant messages or a telephone call for example an action performed by the other user may be determined to be more relevant than an action performed by some other user. If a user is currently viewing a particular location such as a directory or folder or using a particular application then activities or events associated with that location or application may be determined to be more relevant than activities or events associated with another location or application.

In the same or other exemplary implementations information about another user that has performed some activity or that is associated with some event may be used as part of determining the relevance of awareness data to a particular user. For example an activity performed by some user in the user s list of friends or any other set of associated people contacts users and so on may be determined to be more relevant than an activity performed by some other user that is not in some set of people that has special meaning to a user. In another example an activity or event associated with some user that has a relationship with the user may be determined to be more relevant. For example an activity performed by a user s supervisor spouse child or the like may be determined to be more relevant than an activity performed by someone with no or at least a less important relationship to the user.

In the same or other exemplary implementations the relevance of a particular piece of awareness data may be determined at least in part using a particular document file or other data that may be part of the awareness data. For example actions such as edits or other changes related to a document that was created by the user may generally be considered to be more relevant than actions associated with a document that has no relationship to the user. Similarly when a document authored or changed by a user is commented on responded to viewed or otherwise accessed in some manner such an action may be determined to be more relevant. Generally actions associated with a piece of data that is related to a user may be determined to be more relevant than actions associated with a piece of data that is not related to or associated with a user.

In the same or yet other exemplary implementations whether the user has previously expressed some interest in a particular piece of data device other user type of activity and so on may be used as part of determining whether particular awareness data is relevant. For example when a user has reacted or responded to previous notifications about a particular type of awareness data such as a previous change to a particular document a previous notification about a particular other user being available online and so on then new activities or events associated with the same document user and so on may be determined to be more relevant to the user than activities or events associated with some other entity about which notifications have been ignored. Similarly if a user has previously ignored awareness data notifications or the like associated with a particular entity then new activities events or changes associated with the previously ignored entity may be determined to be less relevant. In another example if a user has previously ignored or paid less attention to new data in a particular location say so there are now a number of unread documents in a particular folder perhaps then another new or changed piece of data in the same location may be determined to be less relevant than a new piece of data associated with a location to which the user has previously paid more attention.

Whether a piece of awareness data is relevant may also be determined for entities other than users. For example in at least some implementations of operation the relevance of awareness data may be determined for a particular device for a particular application or for some other entity. In some implementations for example when determining if a piece of awareness data is relevant for a particular device similar types of context information and other determinations may be used. For example it may be more likely that a document or file that has previously been synchronized to a particular device will be determined to be relevant to that device than a document that has not been synchronized to the device.

In at least some cases operation may be implemented at least in part by an exemplary data relevance module such as the data relevance module described previously with reference to .

Finally in an exemplary implementation of operation awareness data including awareness data that was determined to be relevant perhaps by an implementation of operation may be used in one or more of a variety of fashions. In some implementations relevant awareness data may be used as part of one or more user interfaces including user interfaces provided by an awareness system by an operating system shell or by one or more applications that use awareness data. At least some exemplary user interfaces that use awareness data are described in more detail below with reference to and . In the same or other implementations relevant awareness data may be provided or made available to the awareness system or to other processes or applications and may be used in a variety of other ways including as part of processing that may not be associated with a visible user interface. For example such data may be made available using one or more APIs provided by the awareness system.

At least some of the subsequent figures show a variety of user interfaces that might be used with awareness data. Generally the description of a particular figure may be made in some cases with reference to other figures. However it should be understood that the elements described with reference to any particular figure are not intended to be limited to being used with the elements described with reference to that figure or to other figures. In addition while the exemplary diagram or diagrams in a particular figure may indicate particular elements in some implementations not all of these elements may exist and in some implementations additional elements may exist. Furthermore it should be understood that the exemplary graphical representations of the user interfaces are provided only for purposes of discussion and explanation and in no way should be construed as limiting the scope of the user interfaces or techniques described herein to any particular graphical or other representation. Furthermore the user interfaces may be implemented in a variety of ways using a variety of technologies with a variety of differences from the exemplary user interfaces and so on without departing from the elements of the user interfaces as described herein.

Turning now to shown therein is one example of a notification pane user interface that may be displayed as part of notifying a user at various times including when one or more pieces of awareness data have been determined to be relevant. In some implementations such a notification pane may include a relevant awareness data portion that includes one or more awareness data notifications including notifications for awareness data that has been determined to be relevant. For example as shown in the action represented by the text John added a file to project X may have been determined to be relevant to the user viewing the notification pane for one or more of a variety of reasons including those described elsewhere herein. In just one example perhaps the user viewing this notification may have John on a list of friends or contacts might be working on a project with John might have previously added or viewed a document associated with Project X and so on. Similarly the notification represented by the text Home laptop needs update may have been determined to be relevant for one or more reasons. For example the user viewing this notification may have previously set up or used the Home laptop or the update may have been determined to be important because it say fixes a security flaw or for some other reason and so on.

In some implementations only particular pieces of awareness data may be displayed in a notification pane. For example when a highly relevant piece of awareness data is found the piece of awareness data might be added to the notification pane user interface and the notification pane itself may be brought to the top of other windows or generally displayed conspicuously in one or more of a variety of ways. A somewhat less relevant or less important piece of awareness data might be added to the notification pane but the notification pane itself may not be shown immediately. Instead perhaps a user might only see the new addition when they take a particular action to view the notification pane user interface. Other pieces of awareness data including in some implementations awareness data that is determined to be even less relevant may not be added to a user interface like the notification pane user interface and might instead be made available to a user through one or more of a variety of user interfaces or other actions including those described elsewhere herein.

In some implementations a notification pane user interface may also display a variety of other information or data. For example as shown the notification pane user interface also includes a synchronization status data portion that in this exemplary instance of the notification pane shows three other device endpoints that might be associated for example with the user viewing the notification pane. In some implementations a synchronization status data portion might include information such as the status of data synchronization with other computing devices associated with the user. In the same or other implementations a notification pane user interface might not include a synchronization status data portion or might include additional user interface portions or elements associated with the display of the same or other types of data.

Turning now to shown therein is an exemplary user interface that includes the display of awareness data in a user interface that is a companion to an application. The user interface includes an application user interface and a companion pane . In this example the application user interface might be used to display folders and files in particular locations but might in a variety of other implementations display a variety of other data including specific documents database records graphical images or diagrams and so on. In at least some implementations any type of application might be encompassed by the exemplary application user interface.

In some implementations an awareness system or some other system might provide a companion pane such as the exemplary companion pane . Such a companion pane may be associated with the application user interface in one or more fashions. In some implementations such an association may be made only visually that is the companion pane may be displayed next to or in some proximity to the application user interface even while it is not part of the application user interface or even while it might be provided by some other executable code that is not part of the application or process that provides the application user interface. In other implementations the companion pane might be displayed by the same application that displays the application user interface.

Generally a companion pane may include a variety of information including in some cases awareness data associated generally with the application awareness data associated with data displayed in the application user interface and so on. For example as shown in the specific exemplary user interface the companion pane includes awareness data about users that are currently viewing or have open particular locations represented in or related to the information displayed by the application user interface . Such users in this case include the current user viewing this user interface You Administrator as well as John Smith Member and Mary Jones Member. Using this part of the companion pane the user You might be able to determine for example that another user like John or Mary is online and is viewing particular information such as a certain folder or document. The exemplary companion pane might indicate to the user viewing the companion pane that John is viewing or has open the CSA Team folder and also indicate that Mary has opened or is reading the Proposal.doc file.

In this example the companion pane also demonstrates one manner in which awareness data about the devices that are online and associated with the current user might be displayed. Such devices might for example have synchronized or stored at least some of the data shown in the associated application user interface .

While users and devices are shown in this particular example in the same or other implementations any of a variety of the same or other awareness data might be displayed in a companion pane.

Turning now to shown therein is an exemplary user interface that might be displayed by an operating system shell or by an application as part of communicating awareness data. Generally the existing user interfaces provided by an operating system shell might be modified or enhanced in a variety of ways to show awareness data. In this specific example the user interface includes an icon that also includes an awareness data display portion that in this example might display awareness data that perhaps includes the number of users that are currently viewing or otherwise accessing the location or workspace associated with the icon. In this example the icon might indicate that four users are currently viewing or working with the Documents folder.

In the same or other implementations the exemplary icon might use a variety of other user interface characteristics to provide or communicate awareness data. For example other parts of an icon s graphical representation might change to communicate awareness data. For example to indicate that some other user is accessing the location associated with an icon the icon s appearance might be changed to appear with a gleam for example by perhaps appearing brighter. In the same or another implementation an icon might have assistive text that appears when the icon is selected or a mouse or other input device is used to indicate or hover over the icon. Such assistive text might change to indicate or communicate a variety of awareness data. Furthermore an exemplary user interface including an icon might have its appearance changed in a variety of other ways and might communicate a variety of awareness data in addition to or instead of just the number of users associated with a particular location.

The icon itself might be displayed in a variety of locations within one or more user interfaces provided by the operating system shell such as in an application that enables the viewing of files and folders on a desktop in a Start menu and so on. A variety of other parts of a user interface provided by an operating system shell might also be modified to show awareness data in a variety of ways. Such other user interfaces provided by an operating system shell might include for example a list of currently running applications a collection of icons displayed for one or more purposes common dialogs the title bar of operating system shell windows and so on. In addition an icon like the exemplary icon might also be displayed in one or more of a variety of applications.

Turning now to shown therein is an exemplary user interface that includes a common dialog that displays awareness data. The common dialog might be a user interface that is in at least some implementations provided by the operating system shell and that a variety of applications and processes may use as part of implementing particular functionality. For example a variety of applications that implement functionality to open a document for viewing or editing might use an open common dialog provided by the operating system shell. Using such a dialog might provide advantages such as reducing the amount of development effort required by the application developer and aiding in ensuring a consistent user interface across different applications because the application developer is not required to implement an open dialog for each application and can instead use the stock open dialog provided by the operating system shell. 

Such a common dialog may be updated to display or communicate awareness data in a variety of ways. For example the exemplary common dialog displays folders using in part icons and the exemplary icon might communicate the number of users currently accessing the location associated with the icon. In the same or other implementations an icon or an entire common dialog might communicate awareness data using a variety of other user interface changes.

An operating system shell might also provide a number of other common or stock dialogs for a variety of purposes such as save and so on and any of such other common dialogs may also be updated to show awareness data in the same or different ways.

Turning now to shown therein is an exemplary user interface that displays awareness data as part of a window user interface. In this example at least some awareness data is displayed using a window s title bar. For example a user perhaps called Mary might have a first application and a second application displayed in an exemplary and simplified representation of an operating system shell . At the same time another user named John that is perhaps located elsewhere and that is connected to this endpoint through a network might be viewing or controlling one or more particular applications or windows maintained by Mary perhaps using one or more remote desktop or other communication mechanisms. To indicate that the second application is being viewed and possibly controlled by John the operating system shell or the application itself might obtain awareness data in this case awareness data that includes that the particular application is being shared and the user that is sharing the application and display some representation of the awareness data. In this example the title bar of the application might be updated by the operating system shell or the application to include text such as the exemplary Being viewed by John text shown in . In other implementations such awareness data may be communicated through a variety of other user interface changes and other awareness data may be communicated in the same or other ways.

Turning now to shown therein is one example of how an application user interface might display awareness data. In this example one user again perhaps called Mary might be using a word processing or text editor application to view and modify text in a particular document. At the same time another use one named John in this example might be viewing and editing the same document perhaps on another computing device that is connected to the Mary s computing device in some fashion. In at least some implementations when John modifies the document perhaps by changing the text in the second paragraph an awareness data portion of the text editor user interface might be updated so that Mary may be made aware of the action taken by John. 

In some implementations such awareness data including perhaps the paragraph that John is editing might be provided by John s instance of the text editor application to an awareness system perhaps using one or more APIs provided by the awareness system. The awareness data might then be communicated to an awareness system associated with Mary and determined to be relevant perhaps because Mary is currently viewing the same document. When the text editor application includes functionality to access and display particular awareness data provided by an awareness system such awareness data might then be used to update the user interface associated with the text editor application one example of which is shown by the exemplary awareness data portion .

Turning now to this figure and the related description are intended to provide a brief and general description of an exemplary computing environment in which the various technologies described herein may be implemented. Although not required the technologies are described herein at least in part in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules that are executed by a controller processor personal computer or other computing device such as the computing device illustrated in .

Generally program modules include routines programs objects components user interfaces data structures and so on that perform particular tasks display particular information or implement particular abstract data types. Operations performed by the program modules have been described previously with the aid of one or more block diagrams and operational flowcharts.

Those skilled in the art can implement the description block diagrams and operational flows in the form of computer executable instructions which may be embodied in one or more forms of computer readable media. As used herein computer readable media may be any media that can store or embody information that is encoded in a form that can be accessed and understood by a computer. Typical forms of computer readable media include without limitation both volatile and nonvolatile memory data storage devices including removable and or non removable media and communications media.

Communication media embodies computer readable information in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

The computing device illustrated in in its most basic configuration includes at least one processing unit and memory . In some implementations the computing device may implement at least part of for example one of the device or server endpoints described previously with reference to such as the device endpoint A or the server endpoint . In some implementations the processing unit may be a general purpose central processing unit CPU as exists for example on a variety of computers including desktop and laptop computers. Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device the memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory and so on or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line . Additionally the computing device may also have additional features and functionality. For example the computing device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by the removable storage and the non removable storage .

The computing device may also contain one or more communications connection s that allow the computing device to communicate with other devices and endpoints. For example the computing device might have one or more connections to a variety of communication means or computing devices including for example connections to or between endpoints described previously with reference to . The computing device may also have one or more input device s such as image input devices like cameras or scanners keyboards mice pens voice input devices including microphone arrays touch input devices and so on. One or more output device s such as a display speakers printer and so on may also be included in the computing device .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the technologies described herein may be practiced with computing devices other than the computing device illustrated in . For example and without limitation the technologies described herein may likewise be practiced in hand held devices including mobile telephones and PDAs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Each of these computing devices may be described in at some level of detail by the system of or may be described differently.

The technologies described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where operations are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote devices.

While described herein as being implemented in software it will further be appreciated that the technologies described herein may alternatively be implemented all or in part as hardware firmware or various combinations of software hardware and or firmware.

Although some particular implementations of methods and systems have been illustrated in the accompanying drawings and described in the foregoing text it will be understood that the methods and systems shown and described are not limited to the particular implementations described but are capable of numerous rearrangements modifications and substitutions without departing from the spirit set forth and defined by the following claims.

