---

title: Systems for doppler tracking using photonic mixing detectors
abstract: Ladar systems are provided. An exemplary ladar system includes a waveform generator for generating an arbitrary waveform, a laser for transmitting a modulated light signal toward a target, and a Doppler tracking loop for tracking the Doppler frequency shift between the transmitted light signal and a received reflected light signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07573564&OS=07573564&RS=07573564
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07573564
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070626
---
The invention described herein may he manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 183 536 filed Jun. 28 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 844 924 issued Jan. 18 2005.

For a typical optical heterodyne receiver the return signal and the optical local oscillator signal are both directed onto an optical detector. Both signals are optically mixed with each other and the phase and frequency difference between the optical signals as well as that of any modulation waveform applied to the optical signals is converted from an optical to electrical signal by the optical detector. The optical fields can be represented simply as cos cos 1 where we have associated all of the phase difference between the signals with the return signal and we have assumed constant un modulated return and local oscillator signals. The detector current produced from the applied fields is 2cos 2 The frequency difference between the two optical signals can be due to a number of sources present both external and internal to the sensor but for this discussion we will assume it is due solely to the translational Doppler shift along the sensor line of sight imposed by the target of interest. At this point the electrical current generated by the detector can be amplified and further processed to extract the Doppler frequency however the Doppler frequency involved can be quite high. For example the Doppler shift of a 1 m wavelength optical signal by a target traveling at 100 m s is 200 MHz requiring amplifiers of equal or higher bandwidth for the measurement. While such high bandwidth amplifiers exist it is not always advantageous to use them due to their inherently higher noise properties. In addition it is more expensive and more difficult to design and manufacture focal plane arrays and their readout integrated circuits with such high bandwidths compared to lower bandwidth arrays.

Other architectures have been devised to lower the frequency difference between the return and local oscillator signals and thus lower the required bandwidth of the detector and following amplifiers. One of the most widely used techniques is to change the optical frequency of either of the optical signals by an amount equal or close to the Doppler frequency using an acousto optic modulator. This technique requires prior knowledge of the expected Doppler frequency or some means of measuring the Doppler frequency before the optical shift is applied. Also when the optical shift is applied to the entire optical signal the frequency difference is adjusted for an entire array of imaging detectors without the ability to address each detector independently. Additional architectures have been devised which provide an individual local oscillator signal and acousto optic modulator for each detector element in an array but this adds a lot of additional complexity to the system and can become cumbersome and expensive to implement for reasonable size arrays.

Various systems for laser detection and ranging LADAR are provided An embodiment of a laser detection and ranging LADAR system comprises a waveform generator for generating an arbitrary waveform a laser for transmitting a light signal toward a target and a Doppler tracking loop wherein the Doppler tracking loop comprises a phase lock loop with a photonic mixing detector.

Another embodiment is an optically coherent Doppler tracking loop for a laser detection and ranging LADAR system comprising a photonic mixing detector driven by an arbitrary waveform wherein the arbitrary waveform is further configured to modulate a light signal transmitted toward a target wherein the photonic mixing detector is configured to receive a reflected light signal from the target wherein the photonic mixing detector is further configured to mix the reflected light signal and the arbitrary waveform to generate a Doppler signal corresponding to a Doppler frequency wherein the Doppler frequency corresponds to the range of the target an amplifier wherein the amplifier is configured to receive the Doppler signal wherein the amplifier is further configured to transmit an amplified Doppler signal and a voltage controlled oscillator.

A further embodiment is a ladar system comprising means for generating an arbitrary waveform means for transmitting a light signal toward a target the light signal being modulated by the arbitrary waveform means for receiving a reflected light signal the reflected light signal corresponding to the modulated signal being reflected from the target and means for tracking a Doppler frequency shift wherein the means for tracking the Doppler frequency shift comprises a photonic mixing detector.

This disclosure relates to various embodiments of laser detection and ranging LADAR systems. Several embodiments are described below with reference to . As an introductory matter however the basic architecture operation and functionality of an exemplary non limiting embodiment of a LADAR system will be briefly described. In general the LADAR system operates by modulating a light signal with a known waveform and transmitting the modulated light signal toward a target. A portion of the transmitted laser intensity may be reflected from the target back toward the LADAR system and received by a sensor. The received light signal which contains the original transmitted laser modulation is delayed in time because of the long travel path from the transmitter to the target and back to the receiver and the optical carrier and modulation signal is shifted by the target velocity due to the Doppler Effect.

The LADAR system images the target by detecting various types of data e.g. distance amplitude etc. from the received light signal. As mentioned above the received light signal reflected from the target is a temporally modulated version of the transmitted signal. In order to extract ranging and velocity information from the received light signal the LADAR system determines an intermediate frequency IF waveform i.e. offset frequency . As known in the art the intermediate frequency is a lower frequency than either the transmitted or received carrier frequency often the difference between the transmitted and received carrier frequencies to which the frequency of the signal is shifted as an intermediate step in transmission reception 

The LADAR system determines the intermediate frequency by mixing the temporally modulated received light signal with the modulation from the original transmitted light signal. As mentioned above the transmitted light signal is modulated with a known waveform. For example the power and or the frequency of the transmitted light signal may be modulated with a sinusoidal waveform having a frequency that is linearly swept over a wide bandwidth. Therefore the returned laser intensity and or frequency at the receiver follows this modulation. In order to detect the intermediate frequency due to the round trip delay time between the LADAR system and the target velocity between the modulation of the received signal and the waveform used to modulate the transmitted signal the two signals are mixed together.

In the above example the mixing of the transmitted modulation waveform with the received signal which carries the transmitted modulation waveform and Doppler shift due to target motion produces a sinusoidal modulation at the intermediate frequency between the two signals. The electrical current generated by the detector can then be amplified and further processed to extract the Doppler frequency. However the Doppler frequency can be quite high. For example the Doppler shift of a 1 m wavelength optical signal for a target traveling at 100 m s is 200 MHz requiring amplifiers of equal or higher bandwidth for the measurement.

Other architectures have been devised to lower the frequency difference between the return and local oscillator signals and thus lower the requisite bandwidth of the detector and the following amplifiers. One widely used technique is to change the frequency of one of the optical signals by an amount equal or close to the Doppler frequency using an acousto optic modulator. However this technique requires some prior knowledge of the expected Doppler frequency before the optical shift is applied. Additionally when the optical shift is applied to the entire optical signal the frequency difference is adjusted for the entire array of detectors eliminating the ability to address each detector independently. As an alternative in order to minimize the bandwidth of the intermediate frequency filter and thus improve the carrier to noise ratio in the receiver the translational Doppler shift is tracked in a phase lock loop using photonic mixing detectors in a combined detecting and mixing function.

A local oscillator signal can be generated as an optical signal where the waveform generator signal is supplied to a local optical modulator . The local optical modulator modulates a portion of light from the laser for transmission to an optical mixing element . In an alternative the waveform signal is supplied as an electrical signal and mixed with the received signal at the photonic mixing detector . It will be appreciated that the waveform signal may be modified for transmission to the photonic mixing detector .

For example in some embodiments the signal generated by the waveform is provided to a wideband RF power amplifier not shown . The amplified signal is provided to the optical modulator or directly to the laser . Where the laser output is directly modulated the LADAR system may include a matching circuit not shown that matches die driving impedance of amplifier to the impedance of laser .

The modulated light waveform is collected by transmission optics collimated and directed toward a target arrow . The portion of transmitted light that is reflected by the target and propagated back arrow to LADAR system is collected by reception optics and focused onto the active detection region of photonic mixing detector . As discussed above in some embodiments the reflected light is combined with a local oscillator signal optically using an optical mixing element or electrically in the photonic mixing detector .

Referring to the embodiment in photonic mixing detector converts the collected incident light into a current waveform having an amplitude proportional to the power of the received light. In this manner the photonic mixing detector generates a current waveform identical in the case of an optically mixed system to the original modulating waveform combined with the temporally shifted waveform.

The typical optical heterodyne receiver as illustrated in has an optical detector for receiving the optical local oscillator and return signals . The local oscillator and the return signals are optically mixed with each other and the phase and frequency difference between the optical signals is converted from an optical signal to an electrical signal by the optical detector . The resulting detector current can be expressed as 2cos 

The detector current is provided to an amplifier which converts the detector current into a voltage waveform for processing in a phase lock loop . The phase lock loop includes for example an element for mixing a low pass filter and a voltage controlled oscillator . One of ordinary skill in the art should understand that amplifier may comprise any of a number of different types of amplifiers. For example the amplifier may comprise a wideband trans impedance amplifier. The amplified voltage waveform may be provided to a low pass filter to recover the intermediate frequency IF signal. Referring back to the intermediate frequency IF signal may be converted into digital form via an A D converter which will store N frames . The data may be further processed through a discrete Fourier transform to extract the range intensity Doppler micro Doppler and other relevant data . In this regard LADAR system may further comprise memory which contains various hardware firmware software etc. for controlling the processing of the intermediate frequency IF . One of ordinary skill in the art should understand that the output waveform of photonic mixing detector and the Doppler tracking loop may be processed in a variety of ways. Therefore in alternative embodiments of LADAR system additional components may be present. Furthermore some components illustrated in may be substituted for others and or removed from LADAR system .

Having described the general components of LADAR system the operation and or control of Doppler tracking loop will be described in more detail. As mentioned above LADAR system determines the intermediate frequency by mixing the temporally modulated return signal light arrow with the original transmitted light signal arrow . The light signal transmitted by laser is modulated with the waveform produced by waveform generator . The return signal light at reception optics therefore follows this modulation. In order to detect the intermediate frequency due to the round trip delay time between the LADAR system and the target velocity between the modulation of the return signal light and the waveform used to modulate the transmitted signal the two signals are mixed together.

Reference is now made to a diagram of a metal semiconductor metal MSM mixing detector of the present embodiment. The MSM detector is a photodiode formed by an interdigitated electrode configuration on top of an active light collection region . The MSM detector functions as a back to back Schottky diode arrangement as shown in wherein the MSM electrodes correspond to circuit equivalent electrodes .

A block diagram of an embodiment of the Doppler tracking loop is illustrated in . As shown in this embodiment of the Doppler tracking system with photonic mixing detectors is implemented in an optically coherent detection system. The photonic mixing detector receives the optically mixed local oscillator and return signals . The phase and frequency difference between the optical signals is converted from an optical signal to an electrical signal by the photonic mixing detector and opto electrically mixed to a lower frequency signal. The resulting signal is a modulation of the temporal density of signal current at the difference frequency i.e. intermediate frequency IF between the mixed local oscillator and the return signal. Thus the detector current reflects a down converted signal of the phase lock loop. Since the detector signal reflects the opto electrical mixing with the feedback in the phase lock loop it oscillates at the lower intermediate frequency signal and requires a much lower bandwidth amplifier than the prior art high bandwidth amplifier .

Generation of the intermediate frequency signal at the photonic mixing detector reduces the required bandwidth of the amplifier and enables tracking of the Doppler frequency at the detector. One of ordinary skill in the art should understand that since the detector can be one of many detectors in a focal plane array the Doppler tracking of this embodiment can be performed at the focal plane array.

Reference is now made to a block diagram illustrating some embodiments of a Doppler tracking system with photonic mixing detectors implemented in a direct detection system. The photonic mixing detector receives the optical return signal and the electrical local oscillator signal . The phase and frequency difference between the optical and electrical signals is converted to an electrical signal through opto electrical mixing in the detector. The opto electrical mixing also includes a lower frequency signal generated in the phase lock loop. Thus as in the previous embodiment the detector current reflects a down converted signal of the phase lock loop. Since the detector signal reflects the opto electrical mixing with the feedback in the phase lock loop intermediate frequency signal is generated before amplification.

Tracking the Doppler frequency in a pre amplification stage reduces the required bandwidth of the amplifier and consequently increases the signal to noise ratio in the receiver. One of ordinary skill in the art should understand that since the detector can be one of many detectors in a focal plane array the Doppler tracking of this embodiment can be performed at the focal plane array. Further since the detection and mixing functions may be performed within the detector these functions are performed at the focal plane array.

The block diagram of illustrates an embodiment where the photonic mixing detectors can be used to track the Doppler shift in an optically coherent system when the optical signals are for example bi phase modulated. This embodiment utilizes one photonic mixing detector for the in phase channel and one photonic mixing detector for the quadrature phase channel. Note that the feedback signal generated from the voltage controlled oscillator is shifted ninety degrees for the quadrature detector .

Further the LADAR system incorporates a code generator coupled to the photonic mixing detector through an impedance matching amplifier . The code generator supports functionality including for example code multiplexing at the focal point array in conjunction with a scheme such as code division multiple access CDMA readout.

Any process descriptions or blocks in flow charts should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process and alternate implementations are included within the scope of the preferred embodiment of the present invention in which functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those reasonably skilled in the art of the present invention.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

