---

title: Toolbar signature
abstract: A method and system are provided for a web browser toolbar signature. In one example, the method includes receiving a submission of user content from a source webpage, receiving a producer identity of a producer who submitted the user content, receiving identifying information about the destination webpage, coding signed content using the user content and the producer identity, wherein the signed content includes a signature, and submitting the signed content to a server hosting the destination webpage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07958363&OS=07958363&RS=07958363
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 07958363
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071026
---
The present invention relates to user content on the Internet. More particularly the present invention relates to signing user content and later verifying the user content.

One way to share information over the Internet is via public key cryptography. Public key cryptography also known as asymmetric cryptography is a form of cryptography in which a user has a pair of cryptographic keys a public key and a private key. The private key is kept secret while the public key may be widely distributed. The keys are related mathematically but the private key cannot be practically derived from the public key. A message encrypted with the public key can be decrypted only with the corresponding private key.

The two main branches of public key cryptography are public key encryption and digital signatures. Public key encryption is where a message encrypted with a recipient s public key cannot be decrypted by anyone except the recipient possessing the corresponding private key. This method is used to ensure confidentiality. An analogy for public key encryption is that of a locked mailbox with a mail slot. The mail slot is exposed and accessible to the public its location the street address is in essence the public key. Anyone knowing the street address can go to the door and drop a written message through the slot however only the person who possesses the key can open the mailbox and read the message.

Digital signatures is where a message signed with a sender s private key can be verified by anyone who has access to the sender s public key thereby proving that the sender signed it and that the message has not been tampered with. This method is used to ensure authenticity. An analogy for digital signatures is the sealing of an envelope with a personal wax seal. The message can be opened by anyone but the presence of the seal authenticates the sender.

A central problem for public key cryptography is proving that a public key is authentic and has not been tampered with or replaced by a malicious third party. The usual approach to this problem is to use a public key infrastructure PKI in which one or more third parties known as certificate authorities certify ownership of key pairs. Another approach used by the software known as Pretty Good Privacy PGP is the web of trust method to ensure authenticity of key pairs.

Consumers are generating more and more content on the Internet every day. This content goes into thousands of distinct bulletin boards blogs and other social media applications. Unfortunately the content of these Internet systems is not labeled with any canonical identity. So despite public key cryptography techniques a user of one of these Internet systems may still not be able to associate accurately these data with anybody in particular.

What is needed is an improved method having features for addressing the problems mentioned above and new features not yet discussed. Broadly speaking the present invention fills these needs by providing a method and system of a web browser toolbar signature. It should be appreciated that the present invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a method a process an apparatus a system or a device. Inventive embodiments of the present invention are summarized below.

In one embodiment a method of signing user content is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a producer identity of a producer who submitted the user content receiving identifying information about the destination webpage coding signed content using the user content and the producer identity wherein the signed content includes a signature and submitting the signed content to a server hosting the destination webpage.

In another embodiment a method of verifying user content is disclosed. The method comprises receiving signed content receiving producer identifying information of a producer of the signed content decoding the signed content and verifying the signed content.

In still another embodiment an apparatus for signing user content is disclosed. The apparatus comprises a receiving device configured to receive a submission of user content from a source webpage receive a producer identity of a producer who submitted the user content and receive identifying information about the destination webpage a coding device configured to code signed content using the user content and the producer identity wherein the signed content includes a signature and a submitting device configured to submit the sighed content to a server hosting the destination webpage.

In yet another embodiment an apparatus for verifying user content is disclosed. The apparatus comprises a receiving device configured to receive signed content a receiving device configured to receive producer identifying information of a producer of the signed content a decoding device configured to decode the signed content and a verifying device configured to verify the signed content.

In still yet another embodiment a computer readable medium is disclosed for carrying one or more instructions for signing user content. The one or more instructions when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform the steps of receiving a submission of user content from a source webpage receiving a producer identity of a producer who submitted the user content receiving identifying information about the destination webpage coding signed content using the user content and the producer identity wherein the signed content includes a signature and submitting the signed content to a server hosting the destination webpage.

The invention encompasses other embodiments configured as set forth above and with other features and alternatives.

An invention for a method and system for a web browser toolbar signature is disclosed. Numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be understood however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced with other specific details.

The signature system presents a solution for consumers to label their data with a canonical identity string. The signature system may use the canonical identity string for a number of applications including but not limited to aggregating identity filtering identity and reputation management.

Aggregating identity is where the signature system identifies a particular string via common web search technology. The signature system then uses the particular string to create a list of all content a given person has contributed across the web.

Filtering identity is where using lists of canonical identities the signature system highlights re orders or squelches content from particular individuals. Examples of such applications are a system to show only content from children under 13 a system to highlight content from your network of friends or a search tool that exposes pages to which one s friends have contributed content.

Reputation management is where given the use of the toolbar signature system third parties create clearinghouses of reputation information. The signature system then uses the reputation information to restrict those individuals who are willing to contribute content at a particular site. A user may use this solution to fight many types of online spam.

The user input is where a user posts content such as text into an input form. A toolbar not shown is in communication with the browser displaying the source webpage . It is important to note that the term toolbar is used here for explanatory purposes. However the embodiment is not so limited. An alternative to a toolbar may be a browser an external application or another appropriate device.

The signing process including the toolbar extracts some identifying piece of information about the source webpage where the content is posted. This webpage identity can be a source URL or a permalink. A URL is a Universal Resource Locator. A permalink is a URL that points to a specific blogging entry even after the entry has passed from the front webpage into the blog archives. The signing process may also extract the text of the content being submitted.

The signing server receives the webpage identity from the toolbar identity of the producer and possibly the content text. The producer identity is expressed as a private key and or a user name. The signing server stores the producer identity. The signing server uses this stored version of the producer identity to encrypt or to hash the data which may include the webpage identity the content text and producer identity. The encrypted data is signed content that includes user content the producer identity and a signature . The encrypted data includes delimiters to separate the data. The signature and producer identity are attached to the user content and may be hidden or embedded in the destination webpage .

In the submission of user content of the Internet most user generated content systems have some form of HTML filtering. Accordingly the signing server may embed the delimiters the signature and the producer identity using HTML hypertext markup language comments. HTML comments are invisible to the displayed HTML output. However the HTML comments would allow any third party system to extract accurately the signed content . It is important to note that the publishing software that is publishing the content may be configured to strip HTML comments. Accordingly the signature system must be aware of the specific software that is doing the publishing so that the signature system can return something that will prevent the publishing software from stripping the delimiters the signature and the producer identity . The signature system may generally assume the content comes from a static database common to various content management systems.

The signature system would ideally like to have a rule that would allow the signature system to install delimiters into the content in almost every case. Writing the signature out in text would allow the signature system to maintain delimiters in a wide variety of publishing systems. An alternative would be for the signature system to wrap the delimiters in an HTML element in a clear style. Eventually an industry standard may be developed that defines certain rules to define clearly how to prevent the publishing software from stripping delimiters . In the mean time the signature system has a way to delimit the content and to write the producer identity and the signature . For example when publishing a comment the signing system may not be able to use HTML comments but may be able to use HTML elements with a given style tag the signing system would write the content in an empty paragraph in other words the signature system defines that the paragraph is not there to the outside user the paragraph looks it s not there however when the publishing software comes across the content the publishing software can identify that empty paragraphs is the way the delimiters are defined the signature and any other need data can therefore be extracted as such. This technique and other similar techniques require that the signing server knows what the filtering rules will be for the content submitted to the server that is hosting the destination webpage .

The signature system does not have to inform the producer that the signature and the producer identity are attached to the user content . The signing process including the signing server submits the signed content in some machine readable format to the server hosting the destination webpage located at the destination URL . The source URL and the destination URL may be the same but not necessarily. The destination webpage is where any user may retrieve the submitted information.

Asynchronous encryption is where at the time of submission of the user input the toolbar employs a private key known only to the author to encrypt the message data. This signed message along with the actual content is submitted to the server hosting the destination webpage . At the time of collection of the signed content any consumer can take this signature along with the public key of the producer and decrypt the message. This decrypted message can be verified against the signed content embedded in the webpage to ensure that the person who wrote the content is truly the person who signed it.

Trusted identity storage is where at the time of submission of the user input the toolbar employs a secret identity known only to the user and a trusted identity service. The secret identity may be for example a usemame. This identity along with the signed message is submitted to the server hosting the destination webpage . These data are hashed using a one way hash function. At the time of collection of the signed content any consumer can take the submitted signature along with the message and submit them to the verifying server . The verifying server can look up the secret identity known to the user re hash the content and verify that the signature is correct. This service can extend an application programming interface API that will allow any third party system to verify the identity of an individual.

Portions of the present invention may be conveniently implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art.

Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. The invention may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

The present invention includes a computer program product which is a storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to control or cause a computer to perform any of the processes of the present invention. The storage medium can include but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks mini disks MD s optical disks DVDs CD ROMs micro drives and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices including flash cards magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs RAID devices remote data storage archive warehousing or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data.

Stored on any one of the computer readable medium media the present invention includes software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose specialized computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human user or other mechanism utilizing the results of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems and user applications. Ultimately such computer readable media further includes software for performing the present invention as described above.

Included in the programming software of the general specialized computer or microprocessor are software modules for implementing the teachings of the present invention including but not limited to receiving a producer identity of a producer who submitted the user content receiving identifying information about the destination webpage coding signed content using the user content and the producer identity wherein the signed content includes a signature and submitting the signed content to a server hosting the destination webpage according to processes of the present invention.

The signature system allows searching by user. Whenever a signature is identified in a piece of content a trusted version of the public identity can be stored along with the content of the webpage. Such storage allows anyone to search for content by user along with normal keywords.

The signature system allows subscribing to a user. Whenever a search engine discovers a new piece of content produced by a given user this piece of content can be redistributed to anyone who chooses to subscribe to updates by this user.

The signature system allows signing of rich media. Similar to the signing and verification method for text data the same technique can be used to sign and verify images audio video or other rich media. In this case the URL of the media plus an embedded signature can be used to verify the author.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

