---

title: Capped and/or beveled jet blast resistant vehicle arresting units, bed and methods
abstract: Aircraft arresting beds at ends of runways may be subject to damaging effects of jet blast phenomena. Arresting units for that and other applications and which are resistant to such effects are described, with related methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08021075&OS=08021075&RS=08021075
owner: Engineered Arresting Systems Corporation
number: 08021075
owner_city: Aston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070406
---
This invention relates to arresting the forward motion of vehicles such as but not limited to aircraft overrunning a runway and more particularly to arresting embodiments with improved resistance to jet blast moisture damage and other potentially destructive forces.

The problem of aircraft overrunning the ends of runways with the possibility of passenger injury and aircraft damage is discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 885 025 VEHICLE ARRESTING BED SYSTEMS which may be referred to as the 025 patent . That patent together with U.S. Pat. No. 5 902 068 VEHICLE ARRESTING UNIT FABRICATION METHOD the 068 patent and U.S. Pat. No. 5 789 681 ARRESTING MATERIAL TEST APPARATUS AND METHODS the 681 patent describe arresting beds units and fabrication methods and testing based on application of for example cellular concrete for arresting purposes. Improved arresting blocks beds and methods are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 685 387 JET BLAST RESISTANT VEHICLE ARRESTING BLOCKS BEDS AND METHODS the 387 patent . The disclosures of the 025 068 681 and 387 patents are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

By way of example B and C provide top side and end views of a vehicle arresting bed constructed of cellular concrete blocks for installation at the end of an airport runway. As more fully described in the 025 patent an overrunning aircraft enters the bed via a sloped ramp and encounters an array of cellular concrete blocks of increasing height and compressive gradient strength. Such compressive gradient strengths and the bed geometry are predetermined to enable forward travel to be arrested while minimizing the potential for passenger injury and aircraft damage. In these figures vertical dimensions and individual block size are expanded for clarity. An actual arresting bed may for example have dimensions on the order of 150 feet in width with a maximum height or thickness of 30 inches or more if desired and include thousands of blocks of four foot by four foot four foot by eight foot or other suitable horizontal dimensions.

Arresting beds constructed pursuant to the above patents with installations at major airports have been shown to be effective in safely stopping aircraft under actual emergency overrun conditions. For example the arresting of an overrunning airliner at JFK International Airport by an arresting bed fabricated by the assignee of the present invention was reported in the of May 13 1999. However in some applications depending in part upon particular airport layout the proximity of jet blast or other physical forces may give rise to deteriorating or destructive effects which could limit the useful life of an arresting bed. Material used in an arresting bed must have limited strength to permit compressive failure of the material without destruction of the landing gear of an aircraft for example. Thus the requirement to limit the strength of compressible material used for arresting purposes in turn may make the material susceptible to damage or destruction by sonic pressure vibrational lift projected gravel and other characteristics and effects of jet blast from nearby aircraft as well as from other sources such as objects making contact with or people walking on an arresting bed at times other than during actual arresting incidents. As to jet blast phenomena in particular measured conditions at an end of runway arresting bed installation site have included wind velocities to 176 MPH and 150 dB or higher sonic levels. Compressible material such as cellular concrete may also be subject to deteriorating effects and shortening of useful life as a result of ground water intrusion absorption of moisture resulting from rain or snow thermocycling acoustic vibrations human traffic other environmental causes etc.

Accordingly objects of the present invention are to provide arresting units and beds and methods relating thereto which are new or improved or which may have one or more of the following characteristics and capabilities 

In accordance with the invention in one particular embodiment a vehicle arresting unit may include a block of compressible material e.g. cellular concrete intermediate material e.g. a foam sheet having a resiliency characteristic a cap assembly and a bottom tray of plastic material configured to impede entry of ground surface moisture. Any such block may be a solid mass alternatively a block may comprise two or more layers or units of material adhered or otherwise fastened or connected together.

The cap assembly if present may include i a top tray of frangible material having a top portion positioned above the intermediate material and edge portions extending downward from the top portion and ii tray extensions e.g. portions of a flexible fabric extending from edge portions of the top tray and adhered via hot melt glue or otherwise to side surfaces of the block. The top tray which is fabricated to readily break during vehicle arrestment may be made of molded plastic material with upper parts of flexible fabric tray extensions molded into the plastic material. The bottom tray if present may include a lower surface bordered by beveled edges configured to form water drainage channels when two of the vehicle arresting units are positioned side by side on a supporting surface to provide a vehicle arresting bed.

Also in accordance with the invention in one embodiment a method of fabricating a vehicle arresting unit may include some or all of the following steps which may be employed in any suitable order 

 a fabricating a bottom tray having a lower surface bordered by beveled edges configured to form water drainage channels when two of such bottom trays are positioned side by side on a supporting surface and

 b forming a block of compressible material by pouring predetermined material into a mold configuration including the bottom tray to provide a vehicle arresting unit comprising the block with the bottom tray at the bottom of the block 

 c fabricating a cap assembly including a top tray and tray extensions extending from edges of the top tray 

 x positioning intermediate material on top of the block of compressible material so that the intermediate material will be positioned between the top assembly and the top of the block the intermediate material having a force transmission mitigation characteristic. In addition to such step x the method may include between steps x and d or otherwise the step of 

 y positioning a section of sheet material e.g. flexible fabric below such bottom tray and adhering portions thereof to side surfaces of the vehicle arresting unit.

For a better understanding of the invention together with other and further objects reference is made to the accompanying drawings and the scope of the invention will be pointed out in the accompanying claims.

As shown vehicle arresting unit includes a block of compressible or otherwise deformable material having top bottom and side surfaces and a top to bottom thickness. Block may be cellular concrete fabricated in accordance with the 068 patent or otherwise or may be formed of phenolic ceramic foam glass or other suitable material. As described in the 025 patent for vehicle e.g. aircraft arresting applications utilize arresting material having selected strength characteristics e.g. strength during compressive failure suitable to meet dual objectives of enabling aircraft travel to be arrested i.e. forward motion stopped within a desired distance while also avoiding serious passenger injury or aircraft damage such as landing gear failure. Thus an objective is to avoid abrupt deceleration which for present purposes is defined as deceleration at a rate exceeding 1.4 g where 1 g represents 32 feet per second squared . For example cellular concrete fabricated so as to provide a compressive gradient strength ranging between 60 to 80 psi pounds per square inch over a 60 to 80 percent penetration range has been found suitable for use in an arresting bed for aircraft arrestment. The term arrestment is defined as the process of decelerating and stopping forward motion of a vehicle such as an aircraft. Fabrication and testing of cellular concrete for such applications is described in the 068 and 681 patents.

As visible in in this embodiment vehicle arresting unit includes intermediate material positioned above the top surface of block . Intermediate material may be a sheet or layer of foam material such as closed cell polyethylene foam other plastic foam or other suitable material selected to provide a resiliency characteristic. To provide such characteristic intermediate material may typically have one or more of pliable compressible or resilient properties. To reduce transmission of effects of external phenomena in the context of the combination of components comprising arresting unit intermediate material may be selected to provide a force transmission mitigation characteristic consistent with such resiliency characteristic. Suitable material and thickness can be specified by skilled persons in particular applications in view of the nature and severity of applicable phenomena e.g. in view of the level of jet blast expected and proximity to an active runway in intended usage . For present purposes the term mitigation characteristic is used consistent with the ordinary dictionary sense of mitigate of causing to become less harsh hostile or severe and may include one or more of spreading dispensing diluting deflecting dissipating attenuating absorbing cushioning or generally lessening destructive effects of noise vibration physical contact etc. on a surface or layer below material having a force transmission mitigation characteristic.

In a presently preferred embodiment employing a cellular concrete block one quarter inch thick closed cell polyethylene foam material is included for aircraft arresting bed applications. Such a foam sheet is thus considered to provide an adequate force mitigation characteristic suitable for a typical application. In other embodiments subject to different levels of external phenomena e.g. higher or lower levels of jet blast phenomena the intermediate material may comprise a different type of plastic foam or other suitable material and may be thicker thinner include one or more layers or may be omitted. Thus in some applications cap assembly to be described may provide an adequate level of isolation of the block from the external phenomena levels actually present without inclusion of intermediate material . As will be further described in intermediate material is covered by cap assembly and is not visible.

Arresting unit as illustrated includes a cap assembly positioned as the top element of the arresting unit. In this configuration the arresting unit may be considered to be capped by the cap assembly . As will be further discussed in installations in which an arresting bed is positioned in relatively close proximity to operating aircraft jet blast phenomena and other external forces may have deleterious effects on compressible materials of limited strength suitable for arresting bed applications. Pursuant to the invention cap assembly in combination with other elements of arresting unit provides increased protection from or resistance to such effects or both.

Consistent with the configuration illustrated in top tray may be molded of suitable thermoset or other material with application of molding techniques available to skilled persons or otherwise suitably fabricated. As represented in in a presently preferred embodiment the tray extensions may be provided by use of flexible fabric which may comprise one or more central portions with the tray extensions extending therefrom and visible in . With this configuration the central portion or portions may be introduced into a suitable molding process so that each central portion is molded into the frangible material of the top tray for example molded into the flat top portion as indicated in at as well as into the downward extending edge portions with the tray extensions extending from the lower edge of the edge portions in the manner illustrated. For this embodiment the top tray may be molded of polyester plastic material for example with flexible fabric consisting of one or more sections of any appropriate form of material such as netting or other appropriate type of open weave or scrim type of fabric suitable for use in a molding process as described. In other embodiments the top tray may be formed of any suitable material as determined by skilled persons. The flexible fabric may be formed of polyester or other suitable material of a strength and construction configured to readily rip tear or otherwise break during a vehicle arrestment while being strong enough to provide a level of strength to aid in holding the elements of arresting unit in position relative to each other at other times. In other embodiments tray extensions may be provided in forms and shapes suitable for particular applications may comprise other materials e.g. sheet material such as fabric plastic or metal etc. solid or perforated etc. suitable for particular applications and may be attached to top tray in any suitable manner as may be determined by skilled persons having an understanding of the invention.

In the configuration the tray extensions may be glued or otherwise adhered to sides of the arresting unit as will be further described. In the separated view of for purposes of illustration the tray extensions are shown extending outward from the edge portions of top tray of cap assembly . represents a finished form of arresting unit with tray extensions adhered to the sides of the arresting unit. For purposes of clarity of presentation the tray extensions are represented as being transparent in .

In an exemplary embodiment the top portion of top tray may have a thickness e.g. as shown in cross section in of nominally one eighth inch and the edge portions may have a thickness of nominally one tenth inch and a vertical dimension of at least one half inch. In other embodiments such dimensions may be different as determined to be suitable for particular applications. For present purposes the term nominal or nominally is used to identify a value or dimension within plus or minus fifteen percent of a stated reference value dimension or range. The word frangible is used in its ordinary dictionary sense of being breakable or shatterable without necessarily implying weakness or delicacy. In some implementations a vehicle arresting unit may omit a cap assembly intermediate material or both and utilize one or more of a flat top protective sheet flexible sheeting a water resistant coating some other suitable top element or none of these in view of the composition of the block the particular conditions of use etc.

As illustrated arresting unit of further includes a bottom tray positioned as the bottom element of the vehicle arresting unit. shows bottom tray separately. As shown the bottom tray has a bottom portion positioned below the bottom surface of block and therefore not visible in and edge portions extending upward from the bottom portion . With this arrangement the bottom tray is configured to impede entry of ground surface moisture into the block .

Additional features of bottom tray as illustrated in this embodiment include the following. As shown the lower surface of bottom tray is bordered e.g. on all four sides by beveled edges which may be considered to comprise the lower portions of the edge portions . thus the edge portions are configured to provide the beveled edges . The beveled edges e.g. beveled at 45 or other suitable angle are configured to form water drainage channels especially when two of the vehicle arresting units are placed side by side on a supporting surface. This will be described further with reference to . As shown in bottom portion of the bottom tray includes raised channel portions which are dimensioned and shaped to enable insertion of the lifting prongs of a common form of fork lift e.g. fork lift truck to facilitate lifting and placement of the arresting unit . In this embodiment there are also included flat cover sections arranged to extend across the lower access to the channels which would otherwise be open across the bottom extent thereof. In this configuration cover sections may for example be molded in place or formed of flat sections of suitable plastic or other material which are bonded glued heat welded or otherwise fastened to the bottom surface of the bottom tray so as to cover upward access to the channels while permitting lateral access e.g. by fork lift prongs .

In a presently preferred embodiment the bottom tray may be molded of plastic material e.g. thermoplastic polystyrene material . Bottom portion and edge portions may have a thickness of nominally one tenth inch and edge portions may have a height of at least one inch upward from the bottom portion e.g. including the height of the lower beveled portion . In other embodiments any and all dimensions may be altered as may be determined by skilled persons to be appropriate in view of particular conditions and objectives regarding specific applications. In some embodiments a vehicle arresting unit may omit a bottom tray and utilize one or more of a flat bottom flexible sheeting a water resistant coating some other suitable bottom element or none of these in view of the composition of block the particular conditions of use etc.

As visible in in the illustrated embodiment vehicle arresting unit may further include a section e.g. one or more sections of sheet material having a central part positioned below bottom tray and having upward extending parts which in are adhered to side surfaces of block . As shown in sheet material section has a central part and four outward extending parts one on each side of the central part. In sheet material section is represented as being transparent for purposes of clarity of presentation of the complete arresting unit . However it will be understood that in the central part of section has been brought up against the bottom surface of bottom tray and the extending parts of which were outward extending in have now been made to extend upward and have been adhered by adhesive or in any suitable manner to the side surfaces of block . The upward extending parts of sheet material section may be adhered to the sides of block directly or indirectly e.g. positioned beneath or over the tray extensions of flexible fabric which are discussed above . For present purposes adhered to side surfaces and similar phrases are defined as including adhered directly as well as indirectly e.g. overlaying something directly adhered . With sheet material section adhered to block as described the upward extending parts thereof may be provided with openings to facilitate fork lift prong access to the transverse or laterally extending slots formed between portions and e.g. access as represented by arrow in . Sheet material may comprise a suitable fabric e.g. netting scrim etc. or other material such as plastic metal etc. perforated or unperforated as may be determined by skilled persons to be suitable for particular applications. In a presently preferred embodiment sheet material comprises flexible polyester scrim fabric.

Referring now to there are illustrated two vehicle arresting units positioned side by side on a supporting surface e.g. the surface of a runway end section or extension . As shown a right portion of an arresting unit is positioned next to a left portion of an arresting unit each of which may be in the form of unit of . In a complete arresting bed an example of which is shown in the plan view of pursuant to the present invention each side by side positioning of two blocks may be represented by the configuration.

With this side by side arrangement the beveled edges bordering the bottom surface of each arresting unit supported by surface of adjacent vehicle arresting units and positioned in abutting arrangement as shown provide a water drainage channel along the supporting surface . Thus in the embodiment the two adjacent beveled edges of respective arresting units and are shown abutting for example spaced about one half inch or more apart and in conjunction with the supporting surface form a water drainage channel of triangular cross section and extending along the full length of the abutting sides of the units. In the context of a complete arresting bed e.g. of the type shown in wherein arresting units are arranged in columns and rows the beveled edges of the individual units may be arranged to provide water drainage channels on a continuous basis extending the width or length of the arresting bed or both. Also the fork lift prong channels e.g. raised channel portion providing access as at of and spacing between arresting units may aid in removal of water and moisture as to each individual arresting unit by providing access for drainage or air circulation via the water drainage channels formed by beveled edges

With respect to methods of fabricating vehicle arresting units is a simplified side view representation of a four sided mold or form configuration including left side right side and far side with the near side removed to enable viewing of the placement of a bottom tray e.g. as shown in within the mold. As shown the mold has neither a top nor a bottom and both the mold and the bottom tray rest upon a supporting surface . This mold configuration or suitable alternatives as may be determined by skilled persons may be employed in methods of fabricating vehicle arresting units as will be described.

As applicable to arresting beds installed at airports relevant external phenomena comprise jet blast phenomena which may include sonic vibrational pressure lift erosive e.g. by airborne gravel and other characteristics and effects as well as compressive and other forces resulting from persons or objects making contact with an arresting bed other than during actual arresting incidents. Described components of the arresting unit may be selected to reduce or mitigate effects of such external phenomena on block e.g. provide a level of protection to block relative to external phenomena incident on cap assembly and thereby provide a force transmission mitigation characteristic as described above to enhance arresting unit resistance to such phenomena. At the same time the components and the composite arresting unit itself must not be so strong or force resistant as to subvert the basic required parameters of energy absorption via compressive failure of the block of compressible material with desired characteristics upon contact by the wheel of an aircraft overrunning a runway. Thus for example the cap assembly should be readily breakable upon contact by a vehicle wheel during arrestment so as not to significantly alter the selected strength characteristics available by use of the block of compressible material as discussed above. Arresting units as described thus provide intended compressive failure of arresting units with predetermined failure characteristics when arresting a vehicle while providing improved resistance to deleterious effects of external phenomena in the period prior to occurrence of an arrestment.

At a bottom tray e.g. bottom tray of is fabricated. As described bottom tray has a lower surface bordered by beveled edges configured to form water drainage channels when two bottom trays are positioned side by side on a supporting surface. Bottom tray may include upward extending edge portions and be configured to protect block from ground water and moisture absorption effects. Transverse access slots for access by fork lift prongs may also be provided as previously described.

At a block of compressible material having characteristics appropriate for a vehicle arresting application is provided. As noted the block may comprise cellular concrete having an appropriate compressive gradient strength as described in the 068 patent or other suitable material such as phenolic ceramic foam glass etc. For aircraft arresting bed applications the block may typically have dimensions of approximately four feet by four feet by six to 30 inches in thickness. In this embodiment block may be formed by pouring suitable material into a mold configuration e.g. as described with reference to including the bottom tray to provide block with tray below the bottom surface of the block. In this arrangement in addition to conforming to the bottom surface of the block the upward extending edge portions of tray provide additional protection against damage and moisture exposure to the lower part of block .

At a section of sheet material e.g. flexible fabric section of is positioned below bottom tray . In this embodiment parts of the sheet material section which extend out from under bottom tray are then brought upward and adhered to side surfaces of the block and thereby side surfaces of the arresting unit . In this regard it will be appreciated that the upward extending parts of sheet material section may be adhered directly to the sides of block or indirectly by adherence over previously adhered tray extensions extending downward from top tray depending upon whether the respective upper or lower fabric portions are adhered first as may be determined by skilled persons in particular implementations of the invention. To provide adherence of the upward extending parts of the sheet material section suitable adhesives or other materials as may be determined as appropriate in particular implementations may be employed. When the outward extending parts of the sheet material section are brought upward they may cover the access openings e.g. in for fork lift prongs unless suitable openings in the sheet material have previously been provided. Alternatively suitable openings through the sheet material parts can be provided after they are brought into position and thereby cover the access openings . For clarity of presentation sheet material section may be depicted as being transparent in certain views e.g. . However a variety of forms and type of fabric may be employed as determined to be appropriate by skilled persons. In some implementations it may be determined to be appropriate to omit the bottom fabric section and place reliance on other components of the arresting unit as adequate to maintain arresting unit integrity. With inclusion of bottom fabric section increased positional stability and adherability of an arresting unit to a supporting surface may be provided.

At intermediate material is positioned above the top surface of block . Intermediate material may comprise a layer of closed cell or other foam or other material providing a desired force transmission mitigation characteristic with respect to external phenomena. Such material may or may not have energy absorption properties depending upon the particular material selected and may have a thickness up to one half inch or more. In a currently preferred embodiment intermediate material is provided in the form of a sheet of polyethylene foam of approximately one quarter inch thickness. In some embodiments intermediate material may be omitted e.g. in view of a low expected severity of external phenomena .

At a cap assembly e.g. cap assembly of is fabricated. As described cap assembly may include a top tray molded of thermoplastic material and tray extensions of flexible fabric or other material extending from edges to the top tray. As described with reference to in one embodiment top tray may have upper portions of tray extensions comprising flexible fabric molded into the plastic material during molding as represented at . In a currently preferred embodiment top tray is formed of a plastic material having properties to enable it to readily break e.g. fracture during an aircraft arrestment. This enables cap assembly to initially protect block from incidental damage but to break upon contact by an aircraft wheel during an arrestment without being strong enough to materially alter the overall energy absorption characteristics provided during compressive failure of block .

At a cap assembly e.g. cap assembly as previously fabricated is positioned above the intermediate material e.g. intermediate material in this embodiment which has been positioned above the top surface of block . As represented in with cap assembly in position at the top of arresting unit the edge portions of the cap assembly may extend downward far enough to cover the intermediate material e.g. as shown in so that the edges of the intermediate material are not visible in the completed arresting unit shown in .

At the tray extensions e.g. portions visible in are adhered to side surfaces of the block and thereby side surfaces of the arresting unit . As described with reference to the bottom section of sheet material adherence may be directly to sides of block or indirectly via adherence overlaying the parts of the sheet material depending on the order of adherence as determined in specific embodiments. To provide adherence of the tray extensions suitable adhesives or other materials may be used as determined as appropriate in particular implementations. With side adherence of the tray extensions shown transparent in in a presently preferred embodiment it has been determined that positioning of cap assembly and integrity of the complete arresting unit is adequately maintained under typical conditions after installation of arresting units to form an arresting bed. In specific implementations additional or different arrangements may be provide by skilled persons for integrity of installation or other purposes.

At A a cap assembly e.g. cap assembly of is fabricated. As described cap assembly may include a top tray molded of thermoplastic material and tray extensions of flexible fabric or other material extending from edges to the top tray. As described with reference to in one embodiment top tray may have upper portions of tray extensions comprising flexible fabric molded into the plastic material during molding as represented at . In a currently preferred embodiment top tray is formed of a frangible plastic material including glass fibers having properties to enable it to readily break e.g. fracture during an aircraft arrestment. This enables cap assembly to initially protect block from incidental damage but to break upon contact by an aircraft wheel during an arrestment without being strong enough to materially alter the overall energy absorption characteristics provided during compressive failure of block .

At A a bottom tray e.g. bottom tray of is fabricated. As described bottom tray may include upward extending edge portions with beveled lower edges and be configured to protect block from ground water and moisture absorption effects. Transverse access slots for access by fork lift prongs may also be provided as previously described.

At A a block of compressible material having characteristics appropriate for a vehicle arresting application is provided. As noted the block may comprise cellular concrete having an appropriate compressive gradient strength as described in the 068 patent or other suitable material such as phenolic ceramic foam glass etc. For aircraft arresting bed applications the block may typically have dimensions of approximately four feet by four feet by five to 30 inches or more in thickness. In this embodiment block may be formed by pouring suitable material into a mold configuration e.g. as described with reference to including the bottom tray to provide block with tray below the bottom surface of the block. In this arrangement in addition to conforming to the bottom surface of the block the upward extending edge portions of tray provide additional protection against damage and moisture exposure to the lower part of block .

At A a section of sheet material e.g. flexible fabric section of is positioned below bottom tray . In this embodiment parts of the sheet material section which extend out from under bottom tray are then brought upward and adhered to side surfaces of the block and thereby side surfaces of the arresting unit . In this regard it will be appreciated that the upward extending parts of sheet material section may be adhered directly to the sides of block or indirectly by adherence over previously adhered tray extensions extending downward from top tray depending upon whether the respective upper or lower fabric portions are adhered first as may be determined by skilled persons in particular implementations of the invention. To provide adherence of the upward extending parts of the sheet material section suitable adhesives or other materials as may be determined as appropriate in particular implementations may be employed. When the outward extending parts of the sheet material section are brought upward they may cover the access openings e.g. in for fork lift prongs unless suitable openings in the sheet material have previously been provided. Alternatively suitable openings through the sheet material parts can be provided after they are brought into position and thereby cover access openings . For clarity of presentation sheet material section may be depicted as being transparent in certain views e.g. . However a variety of forms and types of fabric may be employed as determined to be appropriate by skilled persons. In some implementations it may be determined to be appropriate to omit the bottom fabric section and place reliance on other components of the arresting unit as adequate to maintain arresting unit integrity. With inclusion of bottom fabric section increased positional stability and adherability of an arresting unit to a supporting surface may be provided.

At A intermediate material is positioned above the top surface of block . Intermediate material may comprise a layer of closed cell or other foam or other material providing a desired force transmission mitigation characteristic with respect to external phenomena. Such material may or may not have energy absorption properties depending upon the particular material selected and may have a thickness up to one half inch or more. In a currently preferred embodiment intermediate material is provided in the form of a sheet of polyethylene foam of approximately one quarter inch thickness. In some embodiments intermediate material may be omitted e.g. in view of a low expected severity of external phenomena .

At A a cap assembly e.g. cap assembly as previously fabricated is positioned above the intermediate material e.g. intermediate material in this embodiment which has been positioned above the top surface of block . As represented in with cap assembly in position at the top of arresting unit the edge portions of the cap assembly may extend downward far enough to cover the intermediate material e.g. as shown in so that the edges of the intermediate material are not visible in the completed arresting unit shown in .

At A the tray extensions e.g. portions visible in are adhered to side surfaces of the block and thereby side surfaces of the arresting unit . As described with reference to the bottom section of sheet material adherence may be directly to sides of block or indirectly via adherence overlaying the parts of the sheet material depending on the order of adherence as determined in specific embodiments. To provide adherence of the tray extensions suitable adhesives or other materials may be used as determined as appropriate in particular implementations. With side adherence of the tray extensions shown transparent in in a presently preferred embodiment it has been determined that positioning of cap assembly and integrity of the complete arresting unit is adequately maintained under typical conditions after installation of arresting units to form an arresting bed. In specific implementations additional or different arrangements may be provided by skilled persons for integrity of installation or other purposes.

If desired a sealant may be applied to the arresting unit e.g. to side surfaces as selected to provide a water resistant characteristic. For example polyurethane or epoxy coatings or both may be determined to be appropriate for this purpose however other suitable materials may be employed and may provide both water resistance and some degree of additional resistance to external phenomena such as ultraviolet radiation.

With an understanding of the invention it will be apparent to skilled persons that steps of methods pursuant to the invention may be modified varied as to order omitted or supplemented by additional or different steps or combinations of the foregoing. Also in particular implementations of arresting units one or more of the described components may be omitted e.g. cap assembly intermediate material bottom fabric section etc. changed or supplemented as may be determined to be appropriate by skilled persons consistent with the invention. Skilled persons will be enabled to select suitable materials methods and configurations as appropriate for particular applications and operating conditions. For example it may be desirable to further glue or adhere together other components of the arresting unit.

While there have been described the currently preferred embodiments of the invention those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further modifications may be made without departing from the invention and it is intended to claim all modifications and variations as fall within the scope of the invention.

