---

title: RFID reader devices and methods thereof
abstract: Radio frequency identification (RFID) reader devices are disclosed. An RFID reader device of one aspect may include a radio frequency (RF) output port operable to allow a plurality of RFID antenna modules to be coupled with the RFID reader device. An RF signal generator of the device may be coupled with the RF output port. The RF signal generator may be operable to generate an RF signal and provide the RF signal to the RF output port. A select signal generator of the device may be operable to generate a select signal. The select signal may be operable to be output to select one or more of the plurality of RFID antenna modules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07973645&OS=07973645&RS=07973645
owner: Impinj, Inc.
number: 07973645
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070525
---
The present patent application discloses similar subject matter as U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 807 114 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 807 118 both filed on the same day as the present patent application.

Embodiments of the invention relate to radio frequency identification RFID components and methods. In particular embodiments of the invention relate to RFID reader system components and methods.

Radio frequency identification RFID systems typically include RFID tags and RFID readers. RFID readers are also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators. RFID systems may be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are particularly useful in product related and service related industries for tracking large numbers of objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In principle RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to interrogate one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave responds by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag generates the transmitted back RF wave either originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may further encode data stored internally in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data may denote a serial number a price a date a destination other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna system a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In earlier RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as active tags. Advances in semiconductor technology have miniaturized the electronics so much that an RFID tag may be powered solely by the RF signal it receives. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device and are called passive tags.

Reader system and tag exchange data via wave and wave . In a session of such an exchange each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data is modulated onto and decoded from RF waveforms.

Encoding the data in waveforms may be performed in a number of different ways. For example protocols are devised to communicate in terms of symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol for communicating may be a delimiter a calibration symbol and so on. Further symbols may be implemented for ultimately exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if that is desired. In turn when the waveforms are processed internally by reader system and tag they may be equivalently considered and treated as numbers having corresponding values and so on.

Tag may be a passive tag or an active tag i.e. having its own power source. Where tag is a passive tag it is powered from wave .

Each port may send to its respective antenna a driving signal that is in the RF range. The driving signal causes the antenna to transmit an RF wave which is analogous to RF wave of . In addition the RF wave may be backscattered from RFID tags analogous to RF wave of . The backscattered RF wave then ultimately becomes a signal sensed by the port.

The RFID reader device also has other components such as hardware and software which are described in more detail later in this document. The components control the ports and as such cause RF wave to be sent and the sensed backscattered RF wave to be interpreted. Optionally and preferably there is a communication link to other equipment such as a server or the like for remote operation of system .

One drawback to the prior art RFID reader system of is that the number of antennas is limited by the number of ports on the RFID reader device. In some cases it is desirable to add or otherwise use more antennas than are available on an existing or given RFID reader device. One option is to acquire a different RFID reader device with more ports. Another option is to procure additional RFID reader devices. However buying an additional RFID reader device or box tends to add additional cost. Additionally one place in which RFID reader systems are commonly employed is around dock doors in warehouses. Multiple RFID reader devices may tend to complicate assembly or configuration for example around the dock door.

A multiplexer is coupled to first port of RFID reader box . A first antenna and a second antenna are each coupled with an output of multiplexer . An RF signal may be provided from the RFID reader device to the multiplexer.

The multiplexer may switch between providing the RF signal to the first antenna or the second antenna. The multiplexer may receive a signal from the RFID reader system that controls whether the multiplexer switches to the first antenna or the second antenna.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known circuits structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the understanding of this description.

The RFID reader device includes a radio frequency RF signal generator and an RF output port . The RF signal generator is electrically coupled with the RF output port. The RF signal generator is operable to generate an RF signal RFD and provide the RF signal RFD to the RF output port. The RF signal generator is not limited to a continuous wave CW but rather may include the encoding that goes on the waveform. The RF output port is operable to output the RF signal RFD .

The RF output port is also operable to allow the plurality of RFID antenna modules to be electrically coupled with the RFID reader device. By way of example the RF output port may include a coaxial cable plug although this is not required.

In the illustrated system the plurality of RFID antenna modules are already electrically coupled with the RF output port and electrically coupled together. In particular a first RF input port of a first RFID antenna module is electrically coupled with the RF output port of the RFID reader device through a first coaxial cable or other RF signal RFD communication link . Likewise a second RF input port of a second RFID antenna module is electrically coupled with a first RF output port of the first RFID antenna module through a second RFD communication link etc.

Additional RFID antenna modules may be electrically coupled together in a similar way. Ultimately an Nth RF input port N of an Nth RFID antenna module N is electrically coupled with the preceding RFID antenna modules through an Nth RFD communication link N where N is an integer. In this configuration the RFID antenna modules are electrically coupled together in a daisy chain configuration although this is not required.

In operation versions of the original RF signal RFD output through the RF output port may be communicated between the RFID antenna modules along the aforementioned RFD communication links. Losses generally occur and cumulatively reduce the strength of the RF signal RFD . For this reason N is often not more than about seven to ten for practical applications although the scope of the invention is not so limited and more could be achieved.

Note that this coupling is in contrast to the prior art approach shown in . There each one of antennas was coupled with a different one of the respective ports of the RFID reader device. Accordingly there was a one to one correspondence between ports and antennas. Same with where the number of ports is effectively extended by using multiplexer . However in the RFID reader system of multiple antenna modules are electrically coupled with the same RF output port.

Referring again to the RFID reader device includes a select signal generator . The select signal SS generator may be operable to generate a select signal SS . The select signal may be operable to be output from the RFID reader device. The select signal may be operable to select one or more of the plurality of RFID antenna modules electrically coupled behind a given shared RF output port. Generally the select signal may be operable to select a subset of less than all the RFID antenna modules coupled behind a given shared RF output port. In one aspect each of the selected RFID antenna modules may transmit an RF wave.

Different ways of implementing the select signal generator are possible. As one illustrative embodiment the select signal generator may include a digital to analog converter DAC . The DAC may convert a binary number corresponding to a given RFID antenna module into a corresponding voltage level other variable level direct current signal or other analog signal. The analog signal may correspond to the given RFID antenna module. For example as will be explained further below the RFID antenna module may include a decoder capable of recognizing the analog signal as a signal selecting its RFID antenna module. Alternatively the select signal may be provided through a modulated carrier for example AM ASK amplitude modulation amplitude shift keying FM FSK frequency modulation frequency shift keying PM PSK phase modulation phase shift keying or a combination thereof.

Additionally different ways of communicating the select signal SS are possible. As shown in the illustration dedicated select signal communication links N may optionally be used to convey the select signal from the RFID reader device to and between the antenna modules. However as indicated by the dashed lines these dedicated links are optional. Generally they add to the amount of cabling and assembly effort to set up the system. As will be explained further below the select signals may alternatively optionally be conveyed along the previously described RF signal RFD communication links N.

Now one potential advantage of the RFID reader system of is the ability to have more antennas e.g. RFID antenna modules than RF output ports since multiple RFID antenna modules may be electrically coupled with each RF output port. Notice that this is in contrast to the RFID reader system of where the number of antennas was limited by the number of ports on the RFID reader device.

Furthermore as shown in the illustration the RFID reader device may include one or more optional additional RF output ports . Each of these RF output ports may allow multiple RFID antenna modules to be coupled and selected as discussed above. Advantageously this may further increase the number of antennas e.g. antenna modules at the disposal of the RFID reader system.

The invention also includes methods. Some are methods of operation of an RFID reader or RFID reader system. Others are methods for controlling an RFID reader or RFID reader system.

These methods may be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in this document.

Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each may be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program.

At block the RFID reader device may generate a radio frequency RF signal. In one or more embodiments of the invention the RF signal may be generated by the RF signal generator of . Conventional approaches for generating RF signals RFD such as for example as generated by the antenna drivers of may optionally be used.

Then the RF signal may be output to a plurality of RFID antenna modules through an RF output port to which the plurality of RFID antenna modules are electrically coupled at block . This may be performed as previously described.

At block a select signal that is operable to select at least one RFID antenna module of the plurality to transmit an RF wave may be generated. In one or more embodiments of the invention a select signal that is operable to select multiple RFID antenna modules to transmit an RF wave may be generated. In one or more embodiments of the invention a select signal that is operable to select among a greater number of RFID antenna modules than there are RF output ports on an RFID reader device may be generated.

Then the select signal may be output to the plurality of RFID antenna modules at block . In one or more embodiments of the invention the select signal may be output through the RF output port used to output the RF signal. In one aspect the select signal may be output through the RF output port at a different time than the RF signal is output. Alternatively rather than outputting the select signal through the RF output port the select signal may be output through a dedicated select signal output port.

A particular method has been described although the scope of the invention is not limited to this particular method. Various modifications of the method are also possible and contemplated. In one aspect certain operations of the methods may optionally be performed in different order and or at least partially concurrently. For example the select signal may be generated before the RF signal is generated or these signals may be generated at least partially concurrently. As another example the select signal may be output before the RF signal is output or these signals may be output at least partially concurrently. In another aspect operations may optionally be added to and or removed from the method. For example an operation described further below of combining the RF signal with the select signal may optionally be added to the method. Other modifications of the method are possible and will be apparent to those skilled in the art and having the benefit of the present disclosure.

The RFID reader system includes an RFID reader device having a radio frequency RF output port operable to output an RF signal RFD . The system also includes a plurality of RFID antenna modules N electrically coupled with the RF output port and electrically coupled together to each receive the RF signal RFD . Receiving the RF signal RFD as used herein is intended to encompass receiving a version of the RF signal RFD reflecting losses and or amplification but nevertheless derived in some way from the RF signal.

The RFID reader device is also operable to generate and output a select signal SS . The RFID antenna modules may each receive the select signal SS . In the illustrative embodiment the select signal SS is operable to select only RFID antenna module . As a result as shown at comment responsive to receiving the RF signal and the select signal SS the selected RFID antenna module may be radiating or transmitting an RF wave . In contrast as shown at comment the other non selected antenna modules namely RFID antenna module and RFID antenna module N may not be radiating or transmitting RF waves.

Otherwise the attributes of the RFID reader system and its components may be similar to or the same as those of . To avoid obscuring certain concepts the discussion has focused primarily on the different and or additional attributes as opposed to repeating the similarities.

In this branched configuration RFID antenna module is electrically connected through links to three other RFID antenna modules instead of just two. In particular RFID antenna module has an RF input port that is electrically coupled with an RF output port of RFID antenna module through an RF signal RFD communication link . RFID antenna module has a first RF output port A that is electrically coupled with an RF input port of RFID antenna module through an RFD communication link . RFID antenna module has a second RF output port A that is electrically coupled with an RF input port of RFID antenna module through an RFD communication link .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the RFID antenna module may communicate RF signals RFD and select signals SS to any one or group of the RFID antenna modules to which it is connected.

Otherwise the attributes of the RFID reader system and its components may be similar to or the same as those of . To avoid obscuring certain concepts the discussion has focused primarily on the different and or additional attributes as opposed to repeating the similarities.

At block an RF input port of a first RFID antenna module may be electrically coupled with an RF output port of an RFID reader device. For example as shown in RF input port of RFID antenna module may be electrically coupled with an RF output port of RFID reader device such as for example by plugging a coaxial cable or other communication link into these ports. The first RFID antenna module may have an RF output port such as for example RF output port .

Referring again to at block an RF input port of a second RFID antenna module may be electrically coupled with the RF output port of the first RFID antenna module. For example as shown in RF input port of RFID antenna module may be electrically coupled with RF output port of RFID antenna module such as for example by plugging a coaxial cable or other communication link into these ports.

A particular method has been described although the scope of the invention is not limited to this particular method. Various modifications of the method are also possible and contemplated. In one aspect certain operations of the methods may optionally be performed in different order and or at least partially concurrently. For example the operations of block may be performed before or partially concurrently with the operations of block . In another aspect operations may optionally be added to and or removed from the method. For example coupling the ports may also include coupling select signal SS communication links or else separate dedicated SS communication links may be coupled. As another example one or more other RFID antenna modules may optionally be electrically coupled in an analogous way for example in either a daisy chain or branched configuration. Other modifications of the method are possible and will be apparent to those skilled in the art and having the benefit of the present disclosure.

RF signals RFD reaching a last connected RFID antenna module may tend to reflect. Such reflections may make it back to the RFID reader device and may tend to add noise. In one or more embodiments of the invention it may be desirable to terminate the RF signals RFD to reduce reflection.

An RFID reader device may output an RF signal RFD on a first RFD communication link . An Nth RFID antenna module N may receive at least a version of the RF signal RFD on an Nth RFD communication link N. By way of example the Nth RFID antenna module may be the last RFID antenna module of a plurality of RFID antenna modules connected in a daisy chain configuration or the last RFID antenna module of a branch.

The Nth RFID antenna module has an RF output port N to output a version of the RF signal RFD . An RF termination is electrically coupled with the RF output port through an RFD communication link . The RF termination may receive a version of the RF signal RFD from the Nth RFID antenna module and may terminate the received version of the RF signal RFD . Examples of suitable RF terminations include but are not limited to resistors to take in the RF signal without significant reflection antennas other RF termination device in the arts and combinations of such RF terminations. Alternatively the termination may be directly integrated into the Nth RFID antenna module.

Other termination schemes are also contemplated. is a block diagram of an RFID reader system having a second optional radiofrequency termination scheme according to embodiments of the invention.

As in the previous scheme an RFID reader device may output an RF signal RFD on a first RFD communication link . An Nth RFID antenna module N may receive at least a version of the RF signal RFD on an Nth RFD communication link N. The Nth RFID antenna module has an RF output port N to output a version of the RF signal RFD .

However in the current scheme the RFID reader device has an RF return port that is operable to be electrically coupled with an RFID antenna module. As shown the RF output port N of the Nth RFID antenna module is electrically coupled with the RF return port of the RFID reader device through an RF signal RFD return communication link . The RF may receive an RF return signal RFS which is derived from the original RF signal RFD output from the RF output port through the RF output port N of the Nth RFID antenna module.

The RFID reader device has an RF signal generator and an RF output port . An RF signal RFD may be output from the RF output port as previously described.

The RFID reader device also has an RF return port and an RF receiver termination . The RF return port is operable to be electrically coupled with a RFID antenna module as previously described to receive an RF return signal RFS derived from the RF signal RFD provided to the output port. The RF receiver termination is electrically coupled with the RF return port. The RF receiver termination may receive and terminate the RF return signal RFS . The previously described types of RF terminations are suitable.

Local block is responsible for communicating with the tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and a port of the antenna for communicating with the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and port. Some readers contain multiple antennas and ports and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. And some readers contain multiple antennas and ports that may operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes backscattered waves received from the tags via antenna block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates an RF wave that is to be transmitted to the tags via antenna block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by processor .

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of example and not of limitation nonvolatile memories NVM read only memories ROM random access memories RAM any combination of one or more of these and so on. Memory if provided may include programs for processor to run if provided.

In some embodiments memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs and other data. Memory may also include reference data that is to be compared to the EPC codes instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat the data as analog such as the antenna port block . Other components such as memory typically treat the data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a whole reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are indeed provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network may be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the interne and so on. In turn local block then includes a local network connection for communicating with network .

There may be one or more remote component s . If more than one they may be located at the same place with each other or in different places. They may access each other and local block via network or via other similar networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s may use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s may also include a remote processor . Processor may be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor .

Remote component s may also include a remote memory . Memory may be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Memory may include a local database and a different database of a Standards Organization such as one that may reference EPCs.

Of the above described elements it is advantageous to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Block includes those that are provided of the following local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of network that links connection with connection . The portion may be dynamically changeable etc. In addition block may receive and decode RF waves received via antenna and cause antenna to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor may be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two may cooperate. It will be appreciated that block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly block is location agnostic in that its functions may be implemented either by local processor or by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

Reader system operates by block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by processing block .

RFID reader system includes one or more antennas and an RF Front End for interfacing with antenna s . These may be made as described above. In addition Front End typically includes analog components.

System also includes a Signal Processing module . In this embodiment module exchanges waveforms with Front End such as I and Q waveform pairs. In some embodiments signal processing module is implemented by itself in an FPGA.

System also includes a Physical Driver module which is also known as Data Link. In this embodiment module exchanges bits with module . Data Link may be the stage associated with framing of data. In one embodiment module is implemented by a Digital Signal Processor.

System additionally includes a Media Access Control module which is also known as MAC layer. In this embodiment module exchanges packets of bits with module . MAC layer may be the stage for making decisions for sharing the medium of wireless communication which in this case is the air interface. Sharing may be between reader system and tags or between system with another reader or between tags or a combination. In one embodiment module is implemented by a Digital Signal Processor.

System moreover includes an Application Programming Interface module which is also known as API Modem API and MAPI. In some embodiments module is itself an interface for a user.

System further includes a host processor . Processor exchanges signals with MAC layer via module . In some embodiments host processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of system . A user interface is coupled to processor and it may be manual automatic or both.

Host processor may include applications for system . In some embodiments elements of module may be distributed between processor and MAC layer .

It will be observed that the modules of system form something of a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain may be coupled by the appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities may be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in opposite directions for receiving and transmitting. In a receiving mode wireless waves are received by antenna s as signals which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing may terminate in any one of the modules. In a transmitting mode initiation may be in any one of these modules. That which is to be transmitted becomes ultimately signals for antenna s to transmit as wireless waves.

The architecture of system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments according to the invention. Furthermore the features of the invention may be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them.

An economy is achieved in the present document in that a single set of flowcharts is used to describe methods in and of themselves along with operations of hardware and or software. This is regardless of how each element is implemented.

The RFID reader device includes an RF output port . An RF signal RFD may be output through the RF output port. Also shown is an optional RFID antenna module . The RFID antenna module is shown in dashed lines to indicate that RFID reader devices and RFID antenna modules may be manufactured and sold separately. An RF input port of the RFID antenna module may be electrically coupled with the RF output port over an RF signal communication link to receive the RF signal RFD .

In addition the RFID reader device includes a select signal SS output port . A select signal SS may be output through the SS output port. An SS input port of the RFID antenna module may be electrically coupled with the SS output port over an SS signal communication link to receive the select signal SS . The RFID antenna module may also include an SS output port not shown to provide a version of the select signal to one or more other coupled RFID antenna modules not shown 

In one or more embodiments of the invention the SS signal communication link may include a single wire capable of carrying a voltage or other analog select signal. Alternatively a coaxial cable or other more sophisticated communication link may optionally be used.

Using separate ports and communication links for the RF signals RFD and select signals SS may increase the amount of cabling and correspondingly increase the amount of time and effort to connect or assemble the RFID reader system. While this may be fine in certain embodiments in other embodiments it may be undesirable.

The signal combiner is electrically coupled with an RF signal generator not shown and with a select signal generator not shown to receive the RF signal RFD and the select signal SS . The signal combiner is also electrically coupled with a combined signal CS output port . The signal combiner is operable to combine the RF signal RFD and the select signal SS into a combined signal CS and provide the combined signal CS to the combined signal output port.

A CS input port of an optional RFID antenna module may be electrically coupled with the CS output port over a CS signal communication link to receive the combined signal CS . The RFID antenna module may also include a CS output port not shown to provide a version of the combined signal to one or more other coupled RFID antenna modules not shown . For clarity as used herein a CS port or communication link is both an RF signal port or communication link and a SS port or communication link.

Advantageously since a combined port and communication link is used for both the RF and select signals the amount of cabling and connection time may be reduced compared to the approach of . As yet another option the RF signal RFD and the select signal SS may potentially be output through the same port and over the same communication link but at different times without being combined. Generally the select signal would be output before the RF signal.

The RFID antenna module has an optional CS input port . A combined signal CS is received at the CS input port. The combined signal includes both an RF signal RFD and a select signal SS . As a result the CS input port is also considered an RF input port. Accordingly the RFID antenna module has an RF input port operable to receive at least an RF signal.

The CS input port is electrically coupled with an optional signal separator shown in dashed lines. Recall that the CS input port and signal separator are optional since separate RF and select signals may alternatively be used. The signal separator is operable to separate the combined signal CS into an RF signal RFD and a select signal SS .

The RFID antenna module also includes a decoder . The signal separator is electrically coupled with the decoder. The signal separator may provide the select signal SS to the decoder. The decoder may be operable to generate a control signal CTL in response to the select signal.

The RFID antenna module also includes an input RF switch . In various embodiments of the invention the input RF switch may include one or more of a PIN p type intrinsic n type diode a diode and quarter wavelength transmission line a field effect transistor and a pseudomorphic high electron mobility transistor PHEMT . The input RF switch is electrically coupled with the input port through the intervening signal separator. The input RF switch may receive the RF signal RFD from the signal separator. The input RF switch is also electrically coupled with the decoder. The input RF switch may receive the control signal CTL from the decoder.

The input RF switch may be operable to electrically couple or not couple the RF signal to a radiative element of the RFID antenna module responsive to the control signal CTL . In particular the input RF switch is switchably electrically coupled with the radiative element through a first node . In dependence upon the control signal CTL which depends on the select signal SS the input RF switch may be operable to electrically couple the RF signal to the first node. The radiative element may be operable to transmit an RF wave in response to receiving the RF signal.

Responsive to and or dependent upon the control signal CTL the input RF switch may also be operable to electrically couple or not couple the RF signal to one or more other nodes . In the particular illustrated embodiment the one or more other nodes include a second node and an optional third node . Second node has no output and is thus essentially a dumb node. Alternatively another element such as for example another radiating element may be electrically coupled with the second node.

The optional third node is electrically coupled with an optional other element . In one or more embodiments of the invention the other element may include a non radiative element. Examples of suitable non radiative elements include but are not limited to non radiative signal paths see e.g. and RF terminations see e.g. . Alternatively in one or more embodiments of the invention the other element may include a second radiative element. Examples of suitable radiative elements include but are not limited to antennas like radiative element and radiative paths see e.g. .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the RFID antenna module may be used as the last RFID antenna module in a daisy chain configuration or branch such as for example RFID antenna module N in . In this application there is no requirement for the RFID antenna module to output an RF signal or a select signal.

At block a radio frequency RF signal RFD may be received. At block a select signal SS may be received. It is to be appreciated that these signals may also be received either in the described order in reverse order or at least partially concurrently. For example in one or more embodiments of the invention a combined signal CS including both the RF signal RFD and the select signal SS may be received.

At block one of a radiative element and another element to which the RF signal is to be provided may be selected based on the select signal. For example as shown in input RF switch may select one of radiative element and other element in dependence upon a control signal CTL generated by decoder based on a select signal SS .

Then the RF signal may be provided to the selected element at block . For example the RF signal may be provided through the input RF switch to either the radiative element or the other element .

A particular method has been described although the scope of the invention is not limited to this particular method. Various modifications of the method are also possible and contemplated. In one aspect operations may optionally be added to and or removed from the method. For example an operation of separating a combined signal CS into the RF signal RFD and select signal SS may optionally be added. Other modifications of the method are possible and will be apparent to those skilled in the art and having the benefit of the present disclosure.

As yet another option the select signal SS may optionally be modulated or encoded on the RF signal itself. is a block diagram of one example of an RFID antenna module having a coupler to couple an RF signal RFD with a decoder having RFID device circuitry operable to recognize a select signal SS modulated or encoded on an RF signal according to embodiments of the invention. The RF signal is conveyed along a non radiative path . The coupler is coupled with the non radiative path. The coupler is coupled with the decoder. The coupler may couple at least a version of the RF signal with the decoder.

The decoder may include RFID device circuitry. The RFID device circuitry may be similar to that found in a conventional RFID tag. The RFID device circuitry may be operable to recognize the select signal SS modulated or encoded on the RF signal. The decoder is electrically coupled with an input RF switch and may provide a control signal CTL to the input RF switch. The input RF switch may be operable to electrically couple or not couple the RF signal RFD received from the coupler with a radiative element or dumb node responsive to and dependent upon the control signal.

In one or more embodiments of the invention one or more radiative characteristic of a radiative element may be configured based on the select signal. Some RFID antennas tend to exhibit relatively poor return loss. In one or more embodiments of the invention either an RFID reader device or an RFID antenna module or both may include an antenna matching or other tuning circuit. The antenna matching or tuning circuit may include antenna tuning elements that may be selected for example with a select signal to improve return loss and or increase power delivered to an antenna. This may also help to reduce reflected power back to the RFID reader device. The matching circuit may be lumped distributed or a combination thereof.

The RFID antenna module includes a CS input port an optional signal separator a decoder an input RF switch a first node and a second node . The signal separator may include a rectifier or other device not shown capable of generating power PS from the combined signal that may be provided to the decoder. Otherwise unless otherwise specified these components may optionally have some or all of the characteristics of the correspondingly named components of the RFID antenna module shown in . To avoid obscuring certain concepts the following description will focus primarily on the different and or additional structures and characteristics of the RFID antenna module of .

The RFID antenna module includes a radiative path and a non radiative path . These paths are switchably electrically coupled with the input RF switch similarly to the radiative element and the other element of . The radiative path has two capabilities. One is to radiate or transmit an RF wave responsive to receiving an RF signal. Another is to convey the RF signal and provide at least a version of the RF signal as an output at the end of the path. The non radiative path may convey and output at least a version of the RF signal without radiating.

The RFID antenna module also includes an output RF switch. The output RF switch is electrically coupled with the decoder. The decoder may provide a first control signal CTL to the input RF switch and a potentially different second control signal CTL to the output RF switch. In one aspect the first and second control signals may configure both the input RF switch and the output RF switch to select either the radiative path or the non radiative path. The output RF switch may receive the version of the RF signal RFD from the selected path. In another aspect the first control signal may configure the input RF switch to select the radiative path while the second control signal may configure the output RF switch not to select the radiative path. As a result the radiative path may radiate without conveying the RF signal as output from the antenna module through the output RF switch.

The output RF switch is electrically coupled with an optional signal combiner . The signal combiner is optional because separate RF and select signals may optionally be used. The signal combiner may receive a version of the RF signal RFD from the output RF switch. The signal combiner is also electrically coupled with the decoder. The signal combiner may receive a version of the select signal SS from the decoder. The signal combiner may combine the received RF signal RFD and select signal SS into a combined signal CS . The combined signal CS may be output from the RFID antenna module through a CS output port. As previously discussed the CS output port may be considered an RF signal output port and a SS output port.

The RF signal tends to weaken as it is propagated from one antenna module to another. In one or more embodiments of the invention an RFID reader system may optionally include one or more power amplifiers to amplify the RF signal propagated through the antenna modules. The power amplifiers may be included in various different locations. For example a power amplifier may be included at various different locations within an antenna module. By way of example in the power amplifier may be located in either or both of the paths or before or after either or both of the paths. For example the power amplifier may be located either between the signal separator and the input RF switch or between the output RF switch and the signal combiner or in both places. Alternatively a power amplifier may be located on a coaxial cable or other link coupling antenna modules. The power amplifier may be powered either by the RF signal itself by the power signal PS or by an external source of power.

Different applications of the multiple radiative paths are contemplated. In one or more embodiments of the invention two or more smaller near field antennas may be used instead of one larger near field antenna. The two smaller near field antennas may potentially generate a larger magnetic field than the larger near field antenna. In one or more other embodiments of the invention the multiple radiative paths may be controlled to provide antenna diversity such as for example polarization diversity or spatial diversity.

The circuit includes a non radiating path . An RF signal RFD may be conveyed along the path towards an antenna or other radiating element .

The circuit also includes a first switch a second switch a third switch A and a fourth switch B. The first switch is operable to select among a plurality of different capacitors representing antenna tuning elements. Similarly the fourth switch is operable to select among a plurality of different capacitors . The second and third switches are operable to select among a plurality of different inductors . The capacitors and inductors are examples of antenna tuning elements.

The circuit also includes a decoder . The decoder may issue control signals. The control signals may control the selection of the different antenna tuning elements by the switches. By selecting the different antenna tuning elements antenna matching or other tuning may be achieved to improve the radiative aspects of the radiative element in some way.

Other ways of configuring the radiative characteristic of the radiative element based on the select signal are also contemplated. For example phase shifts of one or more antennas may be selected based on the select signal such as for example to perform antenna beam steering.

In the description and claims the terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

In the description above for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that one or more other embodiments may be practiced without some of these specific details. The particular embodiments described are not provided to limit the invention but to illustrate it. The scope of the invention is not to be determined by the specific examples provided above but only by the claims below. In other instances well known circuits structures devices and operations have been shown in block diagram form or without detail in order to avoid obscuring the understanding of the description.

It will also be appreciated by one skilled in the art that modifications may be made to the embodiments disclosed herein such as for example to the configurations forms functions and manner of operation and assembly and use of the components of the embodiments. All equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are encompassed within embodiments of the invention.

Where considered appropriate reference numerals or terminal portions of reference numerals have been repeated among the figures to indicate the same or corresponding elements respectively. Unless specified otherwise the corresponding elements may optionally have similar characteristics.

Certain operations may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions that may be used to cause or at least result in a circuit programmed with the instructions performing the operations. The circuit may include a general purpose or special purpose processor or logic circuit to name just a few examples. The operations may also optionally be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

For clarity in the claims any element that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specified function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. Section 112 Paragraph 6. In particular any potential use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. Section 112 Paragraph 6.

It should also be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or one or more embodiments for example means that a particular feature may be included in the practice of the invention. Similarly it should be appreciated that in the description various features are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment Figure FIG. or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of various inventive aspects.

This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects may lie in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of the invention.

