---

title: Device and a method for ordering product at a premises via an integrated multimedia service system
abstract: A product ordering device provided at a digital home system at a user premises is disclosed. The digital home system comprises a user terminal and a gateway device within the premises. Occupants at the premises enjoy the product ordering service on an interactive user interface displayed via the user terminal. The gateway device is coupled for communication with the user terminal via a local area network, and for communication with a wide area network outside the premises; and the gateway device is configured for obtaining product data via the wide area network and providing the product data to the terminal for display on the display device. Upon placement of a product order by a user input through the terminal, the gateway device sends an order message outside of the integrated multimedia service system to request a corresponding vendor for the ordered product to deliver the ordered product at the premises. The product ordering service and the product data are provided and updated by a management server located outside of the premises.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08086495&OS=08086495&RS=08086495
owner: Prodea Systems, Inc.
number: 08086495
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070910
---
The present teachings relate to a system and a method for providing a product ordering service to a customer at a premises where an integrated multimedia service system is installed.

The digital home is now becoming more complex with the myriad of new and emerging digital devices intended to address many user and consumer needs such as communication entertainment privacy and security etc. However given the complexity of the emerging digital home and digital environments generally users who are technologically challenged may find it a daunting and intimidating task to manage their home networks and interconnected digital devices. Moreover new paradigms are emerging oriented to delivering media content to and the consuming of media content at the home. Many of these paradigms rely on communication of application specific data to and or from the Internet as opposed to conventional telephone or broadcast video type applications.

In practice a customer typically subscribes to basic transport services from a network Service Provider e.g. ISP Internet Service Provider cable provider fixed wireless providers ILEC Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier or CLEC Competitive Local Exchange Carrier . For example a customer may have broadband Internet access via cable modem digital subscriber line service or the like. Digital video service may be provided separately. The network service provider manages these basic services at the logical network layer typically at layers 1 2 or 3 of the OSI model. While network services and associated devices may operate minimally at those levels they operate at those levels only to support operations at OSI layers 1 2 or 3. Many applications however involve higher level service logic for applications that view the network transport as a transparent pipe. The current internet applications delivery and management architecture and many devices or management systems based on it require a server with robust processing and storage capability to be located at the network operations center not in the home. For voice over internet protocol VoIP type telephone service for example the VoIP service provider operates a session initiation protocol SIP server or the like and each user has only client functionality. The network transport layers are transparent to the IP packets containing the voice and related signaling. The SIP server however controls the call set up tear down billing and the like for the voice call services. With such an architecture the major capabilities and functionalities connected with providing application services from the server throughout the network reside on the server and supporting elements all of which are located in the network operations center.

With the existing server client terminal paradigm it is currently the case that many of the application service providers also find it difficult to provide and support new emerging technologies at the home. That is service providers are challenged to select a platform that can evolve with their applications. With existing service architectures the launch of new services compounds complexity to the core network adding to both capital and operating expenditures.

Thus as new services come to the fold often with the requirement of new equipment e.g. integrated access devices IADs for VoIP and set top boxes for streaming video the management of the customer premises equipment both hardware and software complicates customer support requirements. Managing the home network environment can be an inhibitor to the adoption of new services both from the user perspective and from the perspective of management by the service providers.

A need exists for a new paradigm with improved convenience for the user and easier management for the application service provider. In that regard it would be desirable to provide a multi services application gateway device that provides not only a variety of IP based communication services but also offers a centralized management capability for application services.

Product transactions have become one of the popular web application services provided via the IP based network. In a typical IP based product transaction system a customer accesses and buys orders a product or service on a seller s server through a PC client. The server provides a web site interactively displayed on the PC client which illustrates products and products related information or lists of Hyper Text linked product seller websites. The user of the client PC can order the products on the interactive website provided by the server or the Hyper Text linked product seller website. The typical IP based product transaction system however requires the customer to search and visit each product order website one by one. The customer has to obtain any updated product or product seller s information at each website individually. Moreover any information or process required for payment or delivery of the products has to be entered by the customer at each transaction typically at each different website.

These ordering services utilize the paradigm in which the server is on the network and the customer s client software runs on a PC or the like. To the extent that gateways have been proposed for customer premises deployment the gateways have been relatively passive with respect to such e Commerce transactions. The gateway may provide security but is not involved in the transaction interactivity.

A need exists for a product ordering service merged with a digital home system where compelling product transaction features are provided and such product information and user s information including payment and delivery are updated and managed by a third party entity outside a user s premises.

The technology discussed herein may be embodied in a digital home system constructed at a premises for providing a product ordering service for example a food ordering service at the premises.

The teachings below encompass a system for providing a product ordering service at a user premises. The system comprises a user terminal having or driving a display device and a gateway device in the premises. The gateway device is coupled for communication with the user terminal via a local area network and for communication with a wide area network outside the premises. The gateway and the terminal form an integrated multimedia service system to provide a user interactive product ordering service within the premises via the display device. The gateway device is configured for obtaining product data via the wide area network and providing the product data to the terminal to be displayed on the display device. The gateway device may obtain the product data on demand based upon a request of the terminal or it may receive automatically without a request by the terminal. Upon a placement of a product order by a user input through the terminal based on the product data the gateway device sends an order message outside of the integrated multimedia service system to request a corresponding vendor for the ordered product to deliver the ordered product at the premises.

In the disclosed example a management server outside of the premises is coupled to the wide area network for communication with the gateway device. The management server authenticates associations of a plurality of terminals at one or more premises and a plurality of vendors terminals with the management server. The management server also obtains the product data from the vendor s terminals and sends the product data to the gateway device.

The product data may be obtained by searches on the wide area network by the management server or may be supplied from the vendors terminals. In an example the product data comprises categorized lists of products for selective output via the display device based on types and price of products or locations of product vendors.

The management server may also manage payment for the ordered product and integrates billing for the ordered product on a bill for providing the product ordering service at the premises.

A plurality of product vendors terminals are coupled for communication with the management server via the wide area network. The management server in the example provides an interactive graphical user interface on each of the product vendors terminals through which the vendors can input status of the ordered product and provide product data to the management server.

The gateway device may store address data of the premises and sends the address data of the premises to a vendor s terminal of the ordered product to provide a direction to the premises for use in delivery of the product while sending the order request. The gateway device may store data about the terminal user s history of orders and preferences and categorizes one or more of the lists based on the history or preferences. The user terminal in an exemplary system comprises a set top box STB or a digital media adapter DMA for converting digital data between a format used by the gateway device and a signal format for a TV type display device. A remote control associated with a TV typically provides a user input to the STB or DMA.

An application programming interface API is installed in the gateway device which allows application services provided on the wide area network to access functions of the gateway device for providing services to the user terminals. The application services are managed from the management server and communications processed through the API include receiving vendors product data and sending the order messages.

The management server may also provide an interactive graphical user interface to the user terminal through which the terminal user can input comments on processing of the order and the ordered product. The management server transmits a notification indicating status of the order to the gateway device based on processing status of the order provided from the vendor s terminal.

Another aspect of the disclosure relates to a method for providing a product ordering service to a user premises. The premises has a gateway device coupled for communication with a user terminal via a local area network in the premise and for communication with a wide area network outside the premises. The gateway and the user terminal form an integrated multimedia service system to provide the product ordering service within the premises. The gateway device is provided with product data from resources outside of the integrated multimedia service system. The product data is displayed from the gateway on the user terminal via interactive graphical user interface whereupon the user inputs an order request for a product based on the product data. The gateway receives the order request of a product from the terminal and sends order request to a vendor s terminal corresponding to the ordered product together with terminal user s data via the wide area network.

Another aspect of the disclosure is a gateway device for operation at a user premises to support a product ordering service. The gateway device comprises a first interface for enabling bi directional communications within the premises with a user terminal device within the premises a second interface for enabling bi directional communications for the terminal device via a wide area network a processor coupled to the interfaces storage coupled to the processor and programming in the storage for the product order service. Execution of the programming by the processor causes the gateway device to provide functions in relation to the product ordering service for the terminal device. The functions include an application server communication with a client functionality of the terminal device for the product ordering service communicated via the first interface and application communication via the second interface to obtain selected product related information for communication to the terminal device and to communicate an order request message to a vendor responsive to an order request from the terminal device.

In a disclosed example the second interface is configured for enabling bi directional communications with a management server external to the premises via the wide area network. The execution of the programming by the processor further causes the gateway device to provide further functions in relation to the product ordering including management of the product ordering service based upon the communications with the management server via the wide area network through the second interface. The management function may include enforcement regarding authorization authentication configuration or use of the product ordering service via the terminal based on instructions from the management server.

In an example of such a gateway device execution of the programming by the processor further causes the gateway device to provide an application programming interface API . The API allows application services provided on the wide area network to access functions of the gateway device in support of services provided to the user terminal. Also the application services are managed from the management server. Communications processed through the API include receiving vendors product data and sending the order messages.

Another aspect of the disclosure relates to a product comprising a machine readable medium and programming embodied in the medium for a gateway device at a premises for communication with a user terminal via a local area network and for communication with a plurality of vendors terminals via a wide area network outside the premises. Execution of the programming causes the gateway device to provide a product ordering service to the terminal. The programming provides functions of the gateway device including management of communication with the vendors terminals and the terminal within the premises and an application programming interface API for application information communicated via the wide area network. The API is adaptable to a plurality of application services provided to user terminal devices in the premises such as the user terminal and the services are managed from the management server via the wide area network. The functions further include receiving vendors product data and sending the order messages providing product data obtained from the outside of the integrated multimedia service system on the user terminal via an interactive graphical user interface whereupon the user inputs an order request of a product and transmitting the order request of products from the terminal and terminal user s data for use in delivery of the ordered product to a vendor s terminal corresponding to the ordered product.

Another aspect of the disclosure relates to an integrated multimedia service system for a user premises. The system includes a terminal device that is configured to implement client functionality for interactive communications via a local network at the user premises and a gateway device for coupling between the local network at the user premises and a wide area network. The gateway device implements server functionality for interactive communications with the client functionality implemented by the terminal device for the interactive communications via the local network at the user premises. The gateway device also implements an application programming interface API which provides web services communications with equipment of one or more service providers via the wide area network to enable the server functionality to deliver an application service offered by one of the providers to the terminal device using the interactive communications.

The API provides one or more function calls and one or more response messages for the web services communication with the service provider equipment which are independent of protocols used for the interactive client server communications with the terminal. The system also includes a management server for controlling the server functionality and the API s web services communications. The management server is implemented with an API to provide communications with the service providers via the wide area network for authentication and registration of the service providers. One or more of the service providers may offer a product ordering service by which a user at the premises orders products on a user interface provided by the gateway device.

Additional advantages and novel features will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production or operation of the examples. The advantages of the present teachings may be realized and attained by practice or use of various aspects of the methodologies instrumentalities and combinations set forth in the detailed examples discussed below.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

A product ordering service is supported by an integrated multimedia service system IMSS at a user premises. The IMSS comprises a user terminal and a gateway device within the premises. In examples discussed below the gateway device provides a server functionality for the service when viewed from the perspective of the client functionality of the terminal. Occupants at the premises enjoy the product ordering service on an interactive user interface displayed via the user terminal. The gateway device is coupled for communication with the user terminal via a local area network and for communication with a wide area network outside the premises. The gateway device obtains product data via the wide area network and provides the product data to the terminal for display on the display device. Upon placement of a product order by a user input through the terminal the gateway device sends an order message outside of the integrated multimedia service system to request a corresponding vendor for the ordered product to deliver the ordered product at the premises. The product ordering service and the product data are provided and updated by a management server located outside of the premises.

While the following description addresses a food ordering service as one example it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the ordering service encompasses any goods or items that occupants at a premises desire to buy from the home environment.

A public Wide Area Network WAN is used as a transport layer between components inside a user premises and various systems outside the user premises exemplified by an Internet Protocol IP network such as the public Internet in the following description. However any other circuit switched or packet switched network is useable as the WAN. In addition a Local Area Network LAN used as a transport layer between components within the user premises can employ IEEE 802.3 Ethernet IEEE 802.11 WiFi or the like.

Referring to a system for providing an interactive food ordering service at a premises where integrated multimedia services are provided comprises user terminals a gateway device a management server and a plurality of restaurants or restaurant information aggregators terminals restaurants terminals . Example of user terminals include a personal computer PC or other data device and a combination of a digital media device and an audio video system such as a television .

The user terminals and the gateway device are located at a premises to form an IMSS within the premises. The user terminal implements client functionality for interactive services such as the ordering service. Each implementation of the user terminal in the premises has or connects to a display device on which a graphic user interface GUI for the user to input commands on view product data etc. is overlaid. The gateway device is coupled to the user terminals via a wireline or wireless Local Area Network LAN and coupled to components outside the premises via a Wide Area Network WAN such as Internet Protocol IP Network. While PCs are serviceable to IP based communications from the IP network TVs or other audio video equipment often require the digital media device to handle data conversion for example to the NTSC analog TV standard. The set top box may further perform data decryption and digital rights management. The ordering service through the gateway device may utilize the so called two foot interface on a PC or similar data device. The ordering service also may offer service via the ten foot interface through a TV or the like. In the illustrated example the digital media device facilitates the ten foot interface on the TV for the ordering service.

The digital media device may be a set top box STB or digital media adaptor DMA . The digital media device may also have a data communications link in the user premises with the gateway device . In an exemplary embodiment the gateway device and the digital media device may be integrated into a single device or the gateway device and the digital media device may be coupled together via a data communications link. One or more of the associated user terminals may be digital media device communicatively coupled to the TV e.g. which may be separate from or included with audio video system . The digital media device may present a graphical user interface for at least part of a display e.g. an insert or overlay on the TV for enabling user selection of applications services media or any suitable combination thereof.

The gateway device may communicate with the digital media device via a wired or wireless communicative coupling serving as the data communication link within the user premises. The data communications link may be for example a user premises data communications network. For example the gateway device may utilize a Wi Fi wireless network or an Ethernet wired network in order to communicate with the digital media device . The digital media device may be communicatively coupled with the gateway device via a wired Ethernet connection or other suitable wired connection. For example the digital media device may communicate with the gateway device via Ethernet and a HTTPS connection to render application services to for example TV . Alternatively the digital media device and the gateway device may be communicatively coupled via wireless communication.

Referring to the digital media device may also be communicatively coupled with a media source . Although one media source is shown for simplicity the digital media device may be communicatively coupled to multiple media sources. The media source may be an in premises analog or digital cable television distribution or the like a video cassette recorder VCR a video game console a digital video recorder DVR a digital versatile disc DVD device an analog or digital broadcast television signal an analog or digital cable headend a satellite television signal source an analog or digital radio broadcast or an Internet source providing audio video or both audio and video any suitable combination thereof or any other media source.

The digital media device may support a plurality of different audio and video input and output interfaces as further discussed below in connection with . For example the digital media device may have video interfaces HDMI component video composite video S video or any other suitable interfaces. The digital media device may also have an interface to support at least one tuner at least one data port any combination thereof or any other suitable interfaces. The digital media device may have a digital audio interface e.g. Sony Philips Digital Interface Format S PDIF or an analog audio interface or any other suitable audio interface. The audio interfaces may be paired or integrated with the analog or digital video interfaces. The video interface may for example support a plurality of standard definition video streams a plurality of high definition video streams or a combination of standard and high definition video streams. In addition the wired network interface and or the wireless network interface of the digital media device as discussed below in connection with may support digital audio streams digital video streams or audio and video data streams or be configured to receive digital audio and or video data files.

The digital media device produces audio and or video outputs and receives user inputs for implementing a user interface on a TV or other audio video system for various services provided via the gateway device . The audio and or video from that interface may be presented in a standalone mode without concurrent output of other programming from the media sources or in one of a number of modes combining audio and or video for the interface with that from the media source. The digital media device may support picture in picture PIP functionality and may further support the ability for a user to configure the size and location of the PIP window within a display e.g. a display presented on TV . The digital media device may support picture outside picture POP where a plurality of windows of video may be displayed in an arrangement relative to a main video display window. For example the POP windows may be displayed around the edge of the main video display window. The digital media device may be configured to adjust the size and position of the main POP window as well as configure the size position and number of secondary windows for POP. In addition the digital media device may support the display of two windows of video side by side. The digital media device may also support picture in graphic PIG where a video image may displayed in a window within a separate graphical image. The digital medial device may be configured to toggle video displays between the main window and secondary windows for PIP POP PIG and side by side. The digital media device may be configured to receive a signal e.g. from a remote control to change the focus between the main windows secondary windows side windows or graphical area or any suitable combination thereof. The digital media device may be configured to receive a selection from the remote control as to an audio signal or stream to be played by a television or audio video system for PIP POP PIG side by side or composite video images e.g. overlays or insert displays or any suitable combination thereof.

Audio or video files stored on the gateway device audio or video signals received via WAN or audio or video received via the media source may be passed through to at least one audio or video interface of the digital media device and or may be received via a network interface. A plurality of video streams e.g. a plurality of digital video streams a plurality of analog video streams or a plurality of analog and digital video streams may be integrated to form a composite signal which may be used to display a composite display on the TV or present a composite signal for presentation on an audio video system. This plurality of video streams that may be combined to form the composite signal may be integrated with at least one analog audio signal or digital audio signal where the audio signal may provide audio substantially contemporaneously with the composite image. Alternatively a plurality of audio signals may form a composite signal and may be played on the audio video system.

These capabilities of the digital media device enable presentation of an interactive graphical user interface for application services offered through the gateway device e.g. from the wide area network to TV including an interface for the ordering service. For example the GUI may provide audio and or video output via a television presentation and allow user input via the remote control. The GUI allows the user to select and interact with gateway enabled services. In addition to the ordering service other services may include but are not limited to viewing movies viewing photos playing music controlling home devices of an in home network playing video games controlling security features such as parental control file backup or any other suitable functions. The GUI also offers various notification and response functions for example receiving notifications of voicemail incoming calls or alert or update messages from devices connected to an in home network or via wide area network or weather updates or other suitable notifications alarms or messages.

Referring to an example of the digital media device will be described. The digital media device may serve as a set top box or as a digital media adapter for a television or other audio video system. As shown in the digital media device may have processor which may be a central processing unit application specific integrated circuit ASIC programmable logic device PLD an integrated circuit or any other suitable processing device. The processor may be communicatively coupled to memory and digital storage device . The memory may be any suitable Random Access Memory RAM and the digital storage device may be any suitable non volatile storage device such as a hard disk drive semiconductor memory memory card an or optical drive. The processor may be configured to service a plurality of audio interfaces with inputs and outputs as well as a plurality of video interfaces with inputs and outputs. The inputs and outputs of audio interfaces may be stereo pairs left and right audio channels . The operation of the processor the audio interfaces the video interfaces and additional interfaces of the digital media device are described in further detail below.

The digital media device may also have at least one wireless network interface e.g. a Wi Fi wireless network interface and at least one wired network interface e.g. an Ethernet wired network interface . The digital media device may communicate for example with the gateway device via the wireless network interface or wired network interface . The wired network interface and or the wireless network interface of the digital media device may support digital audio streams digital video streams or audio and video data streams or be configured to receive digital audio and or video data files.

Still referring to the digital media device may also have home automation interface communicatively coupled to the processor . The home automation interface may be for example an X10 Z Wave or ZigBee interface or any other suitable interface. The home automation interface may enable the functionality of user interfaces UI access home automation and other appliances.

The digital media device may also have at least one peripheral interface such as a USB interface in order to enable communications between processor of the digital media device and mass storage devices.

At least one audio interface may be for example communicatively coupled to one or more devices that may comprise a media source e.g. media source shown in that provides at least in part an audio type signal. The audio interface may also be communicatively coupled to the TV and or to interfaces of audio video system in order to present audio type media content to audio video system or television display . The audio type media content may be provided by for example the media source the gateway device or any other suitable source. In addition audio type signals may be provided from the digital storage device the tuner the wireless network interface wired network interface home automation interface or the peripheral interface via the processor which may provide audio type signals to the audio interface for output for an audio type presentation. The processor may also combine two or more signals received from the interfaces or from the tuner or the digital storage device to provide a composite audio signal to at least one audio interface for output for an audio type presentation or as part of an audio video presentation.

At least one video interface may be communicatively coupled to for example the media source . The media source may provide at least in part video type signals to the video interface or alternatively may provide digital audio and or video signals via a networking communications protocol to the wireless network interface or the wired network interface . In addition at least one video interface may be communicatively coupled to the interface of the audio video system and or to interface of TV so that video type content may be delivered from the digital media device to audio video system and or TV for at least some video type presentation. Additionally video type signals may be provided from gateway device and received e.g. by the wireless networking interface or the wired networking interface digital camera flash memory device PMP device or any other suitable device and output to audio video system and or to TV for at least some video type presentation. In addition video type signals may be provided from the digital storage device tuner the wireless network interface the wired network interface the home automation interface or the peripheral interface via the processor which may provide video type signals to at least one video interface for output for a video type presentation. The processor may also combine two or more signals received from the interfaces or from the tuner or the digital storage device to provide a composite audio signal to at least one video interface for output for a video type presentation or as part of an audio video presentation.

At least one audio interface at least one video interface or a combination thereof may be used to output an audio type presentation video type presentation or audio video type presentation signal generated by the processor where the signal may include an insert or overlay audio and or video signal for presentation on audio video system and or TV . The insert or overlay video signal may also include a graphical user interface. At least a portion of the programming that is executed by the processor to enable the graphical user interface may be at least in part on the digital storage device .

The digital media device may include at least one tuner for receiving audio signals or video signals from a media source e.g. media source illustrated in . The tuner may be communicatively coupled to the processor . As described above at least a portion of the signal received by the tuner may be output via the audio interface the video interface or a combination thereof. A signal received by the tuner may be combined with at least one other signal from at least one interface or device by the processor in order to form a composite signal which may include audio type content video type content or audio and video content.

The digital media device may digitally record or store audio video images any combination thereof or any other suitable media received from the audio interface the video interface the tuner the wireless network interface the wired network interface and or peripheral interface for or playback in the memory on the digital storage device or on the digital storage device communicatively connected to the digital media device . For example the digital storage device may record incoming television signals from the tuner . Accordingly the memory or the digital storage device may serve as a buffer for audio and video data and a user may pause the display of a television signal e.g. using a remote control and the memory or the digital storage device may continue to record the incoming television signal from the tuner such that a user may view the recorded television signals that are being buffered after the user de selects the pause option.

The digital media device may also have remote control interface which may be communicatively coupled to the processor . The remote control interface may be configured to receive wireless signals e.g. infrared signals radio frequency signals etc. from remote control. The remote control may be used to select applications or media sources presented to the user on the TV and or audio video system.

An exemplary gateway device is implemented with hardware and software modules and interfaces that control the integrated multimedia service system at the premises. The gateway device is a node that bridges the integrated multimedia service system at the premises with the WAN outside the premises. The hardware for the gateway device may take a form similar to that used for a PC a server or the like which has its own a CPU a memory and network interfaces for communication with devices at or outside the premises. A specific hardware example is discussed later. Application software to enable various functions is installed in the memory for execution by the CPU.

From the perspective of the clients of the terminal devices the gateway device implements server functionality for one or more application services including the ordering service. represent an embodiment of the IMSS at a premises where a food ordering service is provided to user terminals within the premises. While a food ordering service is addressed below as an example of products the product encompasses all other goods or services which can be an object for online transaction. The gateway device stores in its memory data about terminal users information such as history of terminal users orders terminal users preferences or the like. Categorized data about food and restaurants provided from the management server are also stored in the gateway device and sent to the user terminals per request via the GUI on the display devices. The gateway device in the example implements web services communications with the management server and through the server or directly equipment of food deliver services providers.

The gateway device provides an interface to the Digital Media Adapter DMA for the TV which enables bidirectional wireline or wireless communication. The DMA converts audio and video to a format suitable for the TV . The gateway device further provides a bidirectional wireline or wireless interface to the PC for supporting the transfer of media or data to the PC for storage and viewing. The interaction of the PC with the application service logic of the gateway device offers a GUI for the user s interactive services.

Still referring to the management server which is remotely located outside the premises accesses the gateway device for controlling transport and storing of data and downloading and enabling service applications and providing largely invisible support for many tasks performed by users. The management server includes two module units an order management module for handling orders from the user terminals and a registration and billing module for authenticating registration of vendors terminals and user terminals and handling billing with regard to the home automation services and the food order service. The two module units are implemented with software applications installed in a server or are implemented with physically separate servers. Functionality of the two module units are performed by execution of application software stored in the memory of the management server.

The order management module obtains data about restaurants and foods from restaurant terminals or restaurant information aggregator terminals by its own search or supply from the restaurant terminals or aggregator terminals . The data are customized to an appropriate format for the user terminals for example categorization according to price and types of food and locations of restaurants and sent to the gateway device which thereby updates the data stored in the gateway device .

The order management module receives order message from the gateway device and distribute the order message to the corresponding restaurant s terminal .

The registration and billing module receives and authenticates registration requests from the restaurant terminals or the aggregator terminals and the user terminals for subscribing to services provided by the management server . The registration and billing module handles billing process for the home automation services at the premises and food ordering provided to user the terminals . The registration and billing module stores identification details of the user terminals and the restaurant terminals and billing information for the home automation services and food ordering services.

The management server has a network interface with the IP network to implement a bidirectional communication with the restaurant terminals and gateway devices at the premises. In the example the communications are based on e.g. TCP IP protocol and may be appropriately secured.

The management server provides the gateway device with peer to peer communication capabilities with other gateway devices located at other premises. The contact list of distant gateway devices including addresses of the gateways is stored within each gateway device or the management server . The management server uses the contact list to enable the gateway devices located distant from each other to share and exchange messages via a networking and presence protocol such as Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP messaging. The grouped contact list of gateway devices is provided on the GUI of each user terminal whereupon the user can input and share their information or opinion about food or restaurants.

The restaurant or the aggregator terminals are PCs point of sale terminals internet terminal appliances or the like which can handle orders forwarded from the management server and initiate registration or subscription request to the management server . The aggregator terminals collects and provides to the management server information of restaurants and foods. The aggregator terminals or restaurant terminals periodically or randomly sends updated information of foods and restaurants to the management server . The restaurant or aggregator terminals have network interfaces for TCP IP based communications with the management server .

One exemplary composition of the premises gateway device is now described in greater detail with reference to . As shown in the gateway device utilizes a layered architecture which enables the encapsulation of similar functionality and the minimization of dependencies between functions in different layers. depict exemplary functionality hardware and logical resident in or corresponding to each of the layers shown in . The layers include a hardware layer and device driver software for allowing the processor to operate other hardware elements of the gateway device . is a functional block diagram illustrating interconnection of exemplary elements of the hardware layer . The Hardware Drivers govern the operation of the Hardware Components . The processor runs an operating system shown at layer . The layered architecture also includes software for systems services and for the platform management layer shown at in this drawing. Logical elements are implemented in the exemplary architecture of by the platform modules and the platform management layer .

Particular logical elements comprising an Application Service Logic ASL and an Application Service Enforcement ASE functionalities of an AS Layer which is a functional layer that provides server type access to application services by application clients in the terminal devices and that reside on the gateway device are depicted in and comprise logical elements from each of services framework and application services The ASL and the ASE functions are implemented as high level server type logic within the home gateway device at a user premises. The layered architecture in facilitates reuse or sharing of logic across the layers to provide a managed service framework . The service management functionality provided by the framework enables deployment of new services as pluggable modules comprising computer readable instructions data structures program modules objects and other configuration data in a plug and play fashion. The layered service architecture additionally provides the gateway device with intra process communication and inter process communication amongst the many services and modules in the service framework layer that enables the provisioning management and execution of many applications and services depicted e.g. services A B . . . N at the gateway device . Additionally provided are the application service interfaces that enable communications from user terminals with service environments. In that regard the interfaces enable the application service logic to act as an appropriate server with respect to client device application or service functionality of the terminals. The application service interfaces also enable corresponding interfaces for the application services with aspects of service environments implemented outside the user premises. In that regard the interfaces enable the application service logic to act as an appropriate client for extending the application or service related communications to a server accessed via the WAN such as a server of the management server . For example the gateway device may appear as a SIP server to a SIP client in an end point device e.g. for a VoIP telephone service but the gateway device will appear as a SIP client with respect to some related functions provided by a server such as a SIP directory server provided by the management server .

As shown in more detail in the base support layer comprises hardware components including a processor device e.g. a system on chip central processing unit CPU that includes processing elements digital signal processor resources and memory. The CPU is also coupled to a random access memory RAM and additionally non volatile hard drive disk magnetic and or optical disk memory storage . Generally the above identified computer readable media provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules objects service configuration data and other data for use by the gateway device. The non volatile hard drive disk magnetic and or optical disk memory storage may be partitioned into a network side which is the repository for storing all of the service logic and data associated with executing services subscribed to by the user and is invisible to the user and a user side for storing user generated content and applications in which the user has visibility. Although not shown the CPU may be coupled to a microcontroller for controlling a display device.

Additional hardware components include one or more Ethernet LAN and WAN interface cards e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56 kb X.25 DSL or xDSL which may include broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM Gigabit Ethernet Ethernet over SONET etc. wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. The card referred to as the LAN interface card provides data communication connectivity within the user premises essentially for communication via a user premises network with any terminal devices operating within the premises. The card referred to as the WAN interface card provides data communication connectivity for the gateway device and terminals communicating through the gateway device with the wide area IP network . For additional or alternative customer premises communications the hardware components may also include one or more USB interfaces and for additional or alternative communications with the wide area network the hardware components may also include the PCMCIA EvDO interface card .

A data encryption decryption unit is additionally provided as part of the architecture for providing data security features. A watchdog timer element or like timer reset element is provided as is one or more LED devices for indicating status and other usable information to users of the gateway device .

As mentioned above the gateway device provides an in premises footprint enabling the service connectivity and local management to client s . The implementation of functions and the related control such as a router with quality of service QoS firewall VoIP gateway voice services and voice mail may be embodied and performed within the CPU .

The discussion of the gateway hardware layer above and the illustration thereof in the drawings provides a high level functional disclosure of an example of the hardware that may be used in the gateway device. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the gateway device may utilize other hardware platforms or configurations.

Continuing as shown in the device driver layer comprises a multitude of driver interfaces including but not limited to a PCMCIA driver for enabling low level communication between the gateway CPU and the PCMCIA network interface card wireless interface an IDE driver for enabling low level communication between the gateway CPU and the local mass memory storage element and LAN WAN drivers for enabling low level communication between the gateway CPU and the respective network interface cards and . The exemplary driver layer also includes an LED driver controller for driving LED s a USB driver allowing CPU to communicate via USB interface and an 802.11 b g or n wireless network driver for allowing the CPU to communicate via the access point . The drivers provide the logical connectivity between the low level hardware devices and the operating system which controls the execution of computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services for the gateway device. With respect to the operating system the gateway computing may support any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system or even any operating systems for mobile computing devices as long as the operational needs of the client discussed herein below can be met. Exemplary operating systems that may be employed include Windows Linux or UNIX or even an embedded Linux operating system. For instance the gateway device may be advantageously provided with an embedded operating system that provides operating system functions such as multiple threads first in first out or round robin scheduling semaphores mutexes condition variables message queues etc.

Built upon the system operating system is a system services support layer providing both client like and server like functions that enable a wide range of functionality for the types of services capable of being managed by the gateway device . For instance there is provided a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP client and server software modules. The DHCP client particularly requests via a UDP IP User Datagram Protocol Internet Protocol e.g. Ipv4 Ipv6 etc. configured connection information such as the IP address that the gateway device has been dynamically assigned by a DHCP service not shown and or any the subnet mask information the gateway device should be using. The DHCP server dynamically assigns or allocates network IP addresses to subordinate client endpoints on a leased e.g. timed basis. A Virtual Private Network VPN client may communicate via a proxy server in the service control network according to a VPN protocol or some other tunneling or encapsulation protocol. An SMPT client handles incoming outgoing email over TCP in accordance with the Simple Mail Transfer protocol. A Network Time Protocol NTP RFC 1305 generates and correlates timestamps for network events and generally provides time synchronization and distribution for the Internet. A Domain Name Server DNS client and server combination are used by the IP stack to resolve fully qualified host or symbolic names i.e. mapping host names to IP addresses.

An HTTP S server handles secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Sockets Layer communications and provides a set of rules for exchanges between a browser client and a server over TCP. It provides for the transfer of information such as hypertext and hypermedia and for the recognition of file types. HTTP provides stateless transactions between the client and server.

A Secure File Transfer Protocol SFTP client and server combination govern the ability for file transfer over TCP. A SAMBA server is an open source program providing Common Internet Files Services CIFS including but not limited to file and print services authentication and authorization name resolution and service announcement browsing . An EvDO PPP driver includes a Point to Point Protocol PPP daemon configuration for wireless broadband services. A PPPoE Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet client combines the Point to Point Protocol PPP commonly used in dialup connections with the Ethernet protocol and it supports and provides authentication and management of multiple broadband subscribers in a local area network without any special support required from either the telephone company or an Internet service provider ISP . The gateway device is thus adapted for connecting multiple computer users on an Ethernet local area network to a remote site through the gateway and can be used to enable all users of an office or home to share a common Digital Subscriber Line DSL cable modem or wireless connection to the Internet. A Secure Shell or SSH server implemented with HTTP protocol provides network protocol functionality adapted for establishing a secure channel between a local and a remote computer and encrypts traffic between secure devices by using public key cryptography to authenticate the remote computer and optionally to allow the remote computer to authenticate the user.

Additionally provided as part of the system services layer is intelligent routing capability provided by an intelligent router device that provides Quality of Service QoS guaranteed bandwidth intelligent routing services for example by enforcing routing protocol rules and supporting unlimited multiple input sources and unlimited multiple destinations and particularly for routing communications to networked digital terminals subordinate to the gateway. A central database server handles all of the database aspects of the system. For example the database server maintains and updates registries and status of connected digital terminals maintains and updates service configuration data services specific data e.g. indexes of backed up files other service specific indexes metadata related to media services etc. and firmware configurations for the devices. The database server may also store billing and transaction detail records and performance diagnostics. The database server logic also satisfies all other database storage needs as will be described in greater detail herein.

Referring back to built on top of the system services layer is the platform module layer . The platform module layer provides a software framework for operating system and communications level platform functionality such as CPU management Timer management memory management functions a firewall a web wall for providing seamless WWW access over visual displays via access technologies enumerated herein e.g. HTTP SMS Short Messaging Service and WAP Wireless Access Protocol QoS management features bandwidth management features and hard disk drive management features. The layered architecture further provides a platform management layer as shown in which together with the platform modules implement the platform management layer logic discussed earlier.

The features functions in the layer include a platform manager module which will implement unique rules based notification services. On operational failure for example when one of the components or services fails the platform manager would detect this failure and take appropriate action such as implement a sequence of rules to provide notification to a user. A scheduler module manages scheduled device maintenance managing scheduled services e.g. back up services etc. The layer also includes a diagnostics module and a firmware upgrades management module for managing firmware upgrades. A resource management module manages system resources and digital contention amongst the various resources e.g. CPU Bandwidth utilization etc. A display management module and a logger management module store and track gateway log in activity of users and applications e.g. voice call logs at the user premises. The platform management layer in concert with resource and service management components enforces the separation of network side managed service control and user side delegations depending upon service subscriptions and configurations. For example the platform and resource management encompass rules and guidelines provided according to subscribed services that act to enforce manage and control input output operations and use of hard drives space etc.

The logical platform management layer allows for inter layer allocation of local resources. This function guarantees access between the application service management logic implemented at the higher layers in the gateway device and the applications service management function in the management server by assuring that the local user premises hardware and software modules are functioning at a required state CPU and memory usage bandwidth usage QoS settings etc. . The platform manager is also responsible for implementing that part of the managed application services to be performed by the gateway device. In that regard the platform manager secures and manages the overall hardware platform given that in this scenario the network function layer and the application service layer reside on one hardware platform. This secure hardware platform provides a robust and secure operating environment for the application services layer. So to establish a secure and robust hardware operating environment the platform management layer must interface with all the layers above it and allow for bi directional management information flow among all of the functions.

Referring back to built on top of the platform management layer is the Services Framework which provides a library of application support service processes that facilitate data collection and data distribution to and from the multimedia terminals. The application support service processes include but are not limited to an authentication manager for use in authenticating devices connected to the gateway device a billing manager for collecting and formatting service records and service usage by terminals e.g. calls back up services etc. a fault manager for detecting and managing determined system and or service faults that are monitored and used for performance monitoring and diagnostics a database manager a control channel interface via which the gateway initiates secure communications with the operations support infrastructure a configuration manager for tracking and maintaining device configuration a user manager a service manager for managing service configuration and firmware versions for subscribed services provided at the gateway device and a statistics manager for collecting and formatting features associated with the gateway device. Statistics may relate to use of one or more services and associated time stamped events that are tracked.

Built on top of the Services Framework layer is the Application Services layer providing library of user application services and application support threads including but not limited to file sharing functionality backup services functionality home storage functionality network device management functionality photo editing functionality home automation functionality media services functionality call processing functionality voice mail and interactive voice response functionality presence and networking functionality parental control functionality and intelligent ads management functionality. The multi services applications gateway further provides application service interfaces that are used to enable a variety of user applications and communications modalities.

For instance the SIP Interface is an interface to the generic transactional model defined by the Session Initiation Protocol SIP that provides a standard for initiating modifying or terminating interactive user sessions that involve one or more multimedia elements that can include voice video instant messaging online games etc. by providing access to dialog functionality from the transaction interface. For instance a SIP signaling interface enables connection to a SIP network that is served by a SIP directory server via a Session Border Controller element in the management server .

The Web Interface enables HTTP interactions requests and responses between two applications. The Web services interface provides the access interface and manages authentication as multi services gateway devices access the management server via web services. The IM Interface is a client that enables the multi services gateway device to connect to one or more specific IM network s . As further shown in the UpNp Universal Plug and Play interface enables connectivity to other stand alone devices and PCs from many different vendors.

The XMPP interface is provided to implement the protocol for streaming XML elements via the gateway device in order to exchange messages and presence information in close to real time e.g. between two gateway devices or for a control channel with the management server . The core features of XMPP provide the building blocks for many types of near real time applications which may be layered as application services on top of the base TCP IP transport protocol layers by sending application specific data qualified by particular XML namespaces. In the example the XMPP interface provides the basic functionality expected of an instant messaging IM and presence application that enable users to perform the following functions including but not limited to 1 Exchange messages with other users 2 Exchange presence information with other devices 3 Manage subscriptions to and from other users 4 Manage items in a contact list in XMPP this is called a roster and 5 Block communications to or from specific other users by assigning and enforcing privileges to communicate and send or share content amongst users buddies and other devices.

As noted provides a functional block diagram of exemplary elements of the hardware layer . For example a system on a chip provides the CPU and associated system components. The CPU is also coupled to a random access memory RAM and flash memory. The system on a chip also includes a hard drive controller for controlling a hard disk drive and together the controller and drive form the hard disk example of the storage . An Ethernet switch and associated LAN port s provide the Ethernet LAN interface and the Ethernet switch and associated WAN port provide a landline implementation of the WAN interface L for connection to a broadband modem or the like implementing a Network Service Provider Wide Area Network Termination Apparatus NSP TA which allows for a typical termination of Wide Area Network Services such as DSL Cable Fiber etc by a network services provider. The WAN interface may also be wireless as implemented at for example by a wireless WAN module and associated antenna. An example of such an interface would be the EvDO interface discussed earlier. If the gateway device uses the wireless WAN interface there would be no separate NSP TA.

In the example of a USB controller in the system on a chip and one or more associated USB ports provide the USB interface . The USB interface may provide an alternate in premises data communication link instead of or in addition to the wired or wireless Ethernet LAN communications. The system on a chip includes a security engine which performs the functions of the data encryption decryption unit .

The hardware layer may also include an option module Hardware components of a User Network Application Delivery Apparatus UNA DA . The UNA DA is a separate managed gateway device that a managed service provider would control in delivering a set of application services to the user premises at layer have multiple interfaces for connection to such an option module. These interfaces by way of example could be a data bus e.g. PCI etc network interface e.g. Ethernet RJ45 MoCA HPNA Coax and Power feeds. The option module allows additional functionality to be added to the base UNA DA functionality of the gateway device. For example this additional functionality could be everything from support for a variety of extra Wide Area Network Interfaces e.g. xDSL DOCSIS Fiber PON Cellular Packet WIMAX etc. Media Processing e.g. Cable TV termination Digital Video Recording Satellite TV Termination etc to Voice Processing FXS FXO Speech Detection Voice to Text etc . The option module may have its own standalone CPU Memory I O Storage or provide additional functionality by its use of the CPU Memory I O and storage facilities off of the main hardware board. The option module may or may not be managed directly by the Platform Management of the UNA DA.

The gateway device includes one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs which allow application services provided on the WAN here web application services on the IP network to access devices and functionalities thereof within the premises without being aware of specific details of the devices within the premises. The API includes processes for listening to command and status messages and parsing those messages to determine which processes if any are involved in handling the control message.

Referring to the API serves as a message broker that provides services that coordinate communication between web applications service provider ASP e.g a restaurant terminal in the example discussed below the management server and the user terminals . The API provides standard function calls and response messages for use by the ASP and it translates as needed to interact with gateway functionality and through the gateway with various terminal devices. In the communications between user terminals and the gateway device the user terminals at the user premises implements client functionality and the gateway device operates as a server for interactive communications with the client user terminals . The API provides IP based communications with equipments of one or more ASPs outside the premises through the IP based wide area network and thereby enables the server functioned gateway device to deliver an application service offered by the ASPs to the user terminals . The API s operation at the gateway device is controlled by the management server . The management server also implements an API to provide an interactive functionalities for authentication and registration of the ASPs to the management server .

Referring to and API s functionalities and interactions with other functional modules of the gateway device will be described. Some of the functional modules discussed in are selectively illustrated in for showing the API s functionalities. An API Service Engine Manager ASM which is a software implemented collection of functionalities operates as a process in the integrated digital multimedia service system at the premises deriving from Service Manger Framework in . The ASM stored in the gateway device takes the form of a software to perform a collection of functionalities. The ASM is controlled by the management server .

The platform manager interface interfaces with the Platform Manager which monitors and manages the ASM process such as stop and restart of the ASM process.

The ASM reads service configuration parameters via Configuration Manager library . The ASM receives stores and supports the ASP profile and IMSS subscriber configuration data from the management server . The ASP profile uses Extensible Markup Language XML and includes ASP identifiers security credentials for receiving ASP services ASP supported services a URI for the ASP services the latest API version supported by the ASP list of applications for each ASP service and ASP supported list of media types formats and notification methods. The IMSS configuration data also use XML format and include ASP services the IMSS user subscribes for media types and formats supported by each application and notification methods. The ASM generates an Alarm message and sends a process shutdown request to the Platform Manager via the platform manager interface if the configuration data received from the management server is incorrect. When the ASM starts or restarts its operation it loads the last saved ASP profile and the IMSS configuration data.

In the example the ASM uses Representational State Transfer REST protocol to communicate with the ASP . The ASM s HTTP based requests use GET type requests. Responses to the requests are in XML JSON or PHP format which the ASM supports. The responses and media referred to in the responses can be flagged to be cached in each response. The ASM uses the cached responses and media for a subsequent request until the cache setting times out. The caching settings are based on the HTML meta tags for caching.

The ASM is designed such that a new ASP can be dynamically added or an existing ASP can be updated or removed. The addition or updating of the ASP providing the application services to the ASM is controlled by the management server . If an error occurs during adding removing or updating of the ASP services the ASM generates an alarm messages through an Alarm Statistics Interface .

Each service has a dynamical application list that is modifiable. Each application has a list of functions to be controlled by the policy of the ASM. Some of the functions require credentials to be supplied by the ASP . If the user tries to invoke a function that is not supported or not subscribed for the ASM returns an error message.

The ASM uses a logger manager interface to log events at various levels. The ASM use a download manager interface to download files. In order to provide buffering time a storage manager interface is used while streaming. The ASM uses and publishes the event notifications from the ASP using event manager interface . The IMSS subscriber s policy profile governs the events sent to the user GUI. Cache Manager caches the API call responses.

Data such as last received ASP profile from the management server last received IMSS subscriber profile data and service configurations persist either in flat files or database. Usage data and error conditions used for statistical analysis are sent through the Alarm Statistics manager interface to the management server .

Referring to a process by which an application service is provided to a TV connected to the gateway device upon a request by a user via a remote control for the TV will be described. A user at the premises where the integrated multimedia service system is installed requests a service provided by the ASP using a remote control for a TV. The request is sent via an invisible Infrared light typically used for the remote control. S The STB converts the analog Infrared light request from the remote control into digital codes and sends them to a web server installed in gateway device . S The web server is a software implemented entity which can be separate from the gateway device or a functional module stored in the gateway device .

The web server sends an HTTP based GET type request to the ASM which invokes ASM s functionalites. S The ASM sends the application request to the REST client based on the REST protocol. S The REST client forwards the application request to the ASP which provides the requested application service. S The ASP receives the application request and sends the requested application service through the ASP API interface. S The REST client receives and forwards the requested application service that is XML JSON or PHP type data to the ASM . S The ASM receives and converts the XML JSON or PHP type data application service to an appropriate type data for the web server and sends the converted data to the web server. S The web server receives the converted data and sends them to the STB . The STB displays the requested service on the TV. S 

Referring to the process of food ordering services are described below. The user terminal requests the food ordering service through the GUI displayed on its own display and the request is sent to the gateway device . S The request is submitted to the gateway device in a suitable manner such as in the form of an Hyper Text Markup Language HTML request. The gateway device provides a GUI menu on which restaurant and food data are displayed in response to the request of the user terminal . S The food and restaurant data are categorized based on types price or other features of food and locations of restaurants. The food and restaurant data are supplied and updated by the management server .

The user browses food and restaurant data on the GUI menu and requests more information to the gateway device by the interactive browsing on the GUI menu. S In response to the browsing and the request the gateway device provides more information to the user terminals . S When the gateway device does not store the information requested by the user terminals the gateway device requests the management server to provide the information. S Upon the request the management server sends the requested information to the gateway device. S If the management server does not have the requested information the restaurant terminals updates the information.

Once the user terminal places an order of food on the GUI menu the order is sent to the gateway device . S The gateway device retrieves user s information stored therein and submits the user s information as well as the order to the management server. S The user s information may include user delivery information user preference information user payment information or any other suitable information associated with the user. The user delivery information for a user may include any suitable information relating to contacting and delivering to the user such as a deliver to address including a street address and preferably a city zip code or both one or more telephone numbers or portions thereof such as an area code or special delivery instructions. The user payment information for a user may include any information relating to payment by the user for food items such as a preferred method of payment a credit card number or any other suitable payment information. In this embodiment the restaurant terminal deals with the billing for the order directly with the user terminal without mediation by the management server like other conventional online transactions.

Each of the restaurant terminals accesses the management server at a predetermined time and checks whether an order is placed to the restaurant. S Alternatively the management server sends the order together with the user information to the corresponding restaurant terminal upon receiving the order from the gateway device . After the restaurant terminal receives the order the management server notifies the gateway device of the receipt of the order by the corresponding restaurant terminal . S S The gateway device forwards the notification of the receipt of order to the user terminal . S 

After receiving the order the restaurant terminal initiates delivery of ordered food and sends confirmation of order to the management server . S The management server forwards the confirmation of order to the gateway device and the gateway device transfers the confirmation of order to the user terminal . S S The confirmation of order may include delivery information such as time of delivery and way of delivery. The delivered place may be the premises where the IMSS is established or other addresses. The confirmation of order will be displayed on the GUI of the user terminal for the user to be informed.

In another embodiment the gateway device sends the user s payment information to the management server after receiving the order confirmation. S The management server accumulates and integrates the bill for transaction of the ordered food to the periodical billing for the home automation service at the premises periodically. S The restaurant terminal in advance registers to the management server s bill integration service. At the same time the management server notifies the restaurant terminal of the end of the transaction of the order. S 

As another embodiment of billing for the transaction of ordered food a payment server operated by a credit card company or the restaurant may process the billing for the transaction of the ordered food. In this example billing information such as credit card number or bank account number of the users is stored in the gateway device or the management server which obviates the need for the user to input billing information at each transaction.

As another embodiment of billing for the transaction of ordered food an account for each terminal s user sponsored by the management server is set up with a credit card company. Billing for the transaction of the ordered food and services provided by the management server are processed through the account. Balance of the account is periodically paid by the user s credit card.

In another embodiment the user can input opinion about food and restaurant services via the GUI of the user terminal . The opinion is sent to the gateway device and is forwarded to the management server . The management server collects the opinions inputted by plenty of user terminals and provides the collected opinions on the GUI of the user terminals. The user terminals to which the opinion are provided can be grouped based on location of premises or restaurants and users preferences and only the user terminals included in the group can receive the opinions. Alternatively the management server can send the opinion to all user terminals.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

