---

title: Tune-stabilized, non-scaling, fixed-field, alternating gradient accelerator
abstract: A FFAG is a particle accelerator having turning magnets with a linear field gradient for confinement and a large edge angle to compensate for acceleration. FODO cells contain focus magnets and defocus magnets that are specified by a number of parameters. A set of seven equations, called the FFAG equations relate the parameters to one another. A set of constraints, call the FFAG constraints, constrain the FFAG equations. Selecting a few parameters, such as injection momentum, extraction momentum, and drift distance reduces the number of unknown parameters to seven. Seven equations with seven unknowns can be solved to yield the values for all the parameters and to thereby fully specify a FFAG.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07880146&OS=07880146&RS=07880146
owner: Universities Research Association, Inc.
number: 07880146
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070508
---
This patent application claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 799 716 filed on May 10 2006 entitled TUNE STABILIZED NON SCALING FIXED FIELD ALTERNATING GRADIENT ACCELERATOR and which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE AC02 76CH03000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments relate to the fields of electromagnetic fields magnets and particle accelerators. Embodiments also relate to the field of constrained systems of equations and computational methods for solving constrained systems of equations.

Particle accelerators have been researched and produced since the discovery of electric fields and electrical potential. Initially linear accelerators were developed followed by a variety of ring shaped accelerators which are now a common and often the most economical choice in many technical applications

In general charged particles are sent through an injection port into a ring shaped accelerator that then accelerates them. The accelerated particles can then be obtained as they exit out of an extraction port.

There are many types of ring shaped accelerators and all of them require careful control over electric fields and magnetic fields. The electric fields accelerate the particles. The magnetic fields bend particle trajectories so that the particles remain within the accelerator. The required careful control is accomplished with complex magnetic field configurations in conjunction with sophisticated control systems. In ring accelerators such systems are almost always required to dynamically adjust the fields. Limits therefore exist particularly in ring accelerators regarding the rate at which parameters can be dynamically adjusted. This rate of parameter change affects the acceleration cycle time total current duty cycle and other technical requirements such as variations in energy that can be dynamically delivered. Systems and methods for accelerating particles with ring accelerators are needed which improve performance and output such as enhancing the beam current increasing the dynamical range or variability in beam parameters or simplifying or reducing the cost of the control system magnets power supplies and other ring components.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the embodiments and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

Fundamental design methods providing for accelerating charged particles with non scaling fixed field alternating gradient accelerators are needed in particular new approaches which stabilize the tune dynamically.

It is therefore an aspect of the embodiments that a focus magnet which focuses or confines the beam in the horizontal plane using fixed not dynamically adjusted fields can be specified by parameters which include an injection field strength an extraction field strength the length of the magnet at injection the length of the magnet at extraction and the horizontal orbit separation between the two.

It is also an aspect of the embodiments that the so termed defocus magnet which defocuses beam in the horizontal plane but confines or focuses vertically is also specified by parameters that include an injection field strength an extraction field strength the length of the magnet required at injection the magnetic length at extraction and the orbit separation in the horizontal plane between the two.

It is a further aspect of the embodiments that the focus magnet and the defocus magnet are positioned with a separation specified by a drift distance and are part of a system having conventional accelerator system parameters such as a phase advance an injection momentum and an extraction momentum.

It is a yet further aspect of the embodiments that the parameters defining horizontally focusing magnets defocusing magnets phase advance and a drift distance can be related by seven equations. The seven equations describe stable beam motion in a fixed linear field magnetic FODO cell which is constrained in phase advance or tune at injection and extraction. This FODO cell comprises the basic building block of a non scaling linear field FFAG NLFFAG with likewise constrained tune. As such the seven equations are called the NLFFAG equations. A solution to the NLFFAG equations can be obtained by applying both technical constraints and magnetic optics constraints to the NLFFAG equations. The technical constraints and the magnetic optics constraints are called the NLFFAG constraints.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these non limiting examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate at least one embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope thereof. In general the figures are not to scale.

A FFAG is a particle accelerator having turning magnets with a fixed field gradient designed for beam confinement across a specified energy range and within a defined magnet aperture. FODO cells contain focus magnets and defocus magnets that are specified by a number of parameters such as focusing strength which is nominally expressed in terms of length and the magnetic field value or its gradient. Here FODO cells are used as the basic optics unit of the FFAG. A set of seven equations have been developed which relate the simple linear FODO cell optical and geometrical parameters to one another as required to build a non scaling FFAG that is constrained in tune. These seven equations impose the constraint of both fixed linear fields either constant or linear gradient fields and fixed tune. In the approach used to derive these equations phase advance or tune is constrained at the injection and extraction momentum. Magnetic optical constraints in the presence of fixed and linear field gradients further reduce the equations . Then selecting a few parameters such as injection momentum extraction momentum and drift distance reduces the number of unknown parameters to seven. Seven equations with seven unknowns can be solved to yield the values for all the parameters and to thereby completely specify the magnetic and optical parameters of a non scaling linear field FFAG with stable tune at both injection and extraction.

Upon injection the particles have an injection momentum p and are accelerated by the accelerator modules until they reach an extraction momentum p. The FODO cells bend the particle paths so that the particles orbit through the clear path.

kis strength of the linear field quadrupole gradient at extraction in m for the defocus magnet. gives exact relationship of the k values to absolute field gradient B aperture and momentum p. Note since the linear field gradient is constant the focusing strength scales inversely with momentum. kis strength of the linear field gradient at extraction in the focus magnet. kis strength of the linear field gradient at injection in the focus magnet. kis the strength of the linear field gradient at injection in the defocus quad. lis half the total defocus magnet extraction length. lis half the total focus magnet extraction length. lis half the total focus magnet injection length lis half the total defocus magnet injection length is the defocus magnet edge angle adjustment an edge angle relative to the sector edge angle defined below. In beam optics beam enters normal to the face of a sector magnet and its total bend through the magnet is equal to the sector angle. This additional edge angle adds or subtracts from the sector angle to form the physical edge angle of the magnet but also represents the non normal entrance of the beam hence it is a separate variable from the sector angle in the optics equations. is the focus magnet edge angle adjustment is the bend radius in the defocus magnet at the injection momentum. is the bend radius in the defocus magnet at extraction momentum. is the bend radius in the focus magnet at the extraction momentum. is the bend angle of beam at extraction through the defocus magnet. is the focus magnet sector angle which is a physical edge angle and also represents the total bend of extraction beam through the focus magnet. is the defocus magnet sector angle which is a physical edge angle and again represents the total bend angle of injection beam through the defocus magnet. xis the focus magnet orbit separation between injection and extraction. xis the defocus magnet focus separation between injection and extraction.

Setting some of the variables to desired values reduces the number of unknown variables to seven. As such the seven equations can be solved to yield values for all of the variables. Those practiced in the art of mathematics are familiar with solving systems of equations. Note that focal length f is given in terms of the combined half lengths of the focus and defocus magnets at extraction plus the drift so it is not fully specified and there are only 7 true values for parameters below.

As such the focus and defocus magnets are sufficiently specified and can be produced and used within the FODO cells of a FFAG.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

