---

title: Method and apparatus for measuring surface air pressure
abstract: The present invention is directed to an apparatus and method for remotely measuring surface air pressure. In one embodiment, the method of the present invention utilizes the steps of transmitting a signal having multiple frequencies into the atmosphere, measuring the transmitted/reflected signal to determine the relative received power level of each frequency and then determining the surface air pressure based upon the attenuation of the transmitted frequencies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08855932&OS=08855932&RS=08855932
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08855932
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070604
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 803 770 filed Jun. 2 2006. The entire disclosure of the aforesaid provisional application is herein incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

Surface air pressure is one of the most important parameters regularly measured at surface meteorological stations. With development of remote sensing methods especially in airborne and satellite remote sensing techniques large scale and global surface pressure measurements significantly lag behind other important parameters such as surface temperature. One known technique uses satellite oxygen A band methods to measure surface air pressure. The aforesaid known oxygen A band methods are either passive or rely upon active instruments. The active instruments rely on the operation of complicated highly stable laser systems on a space platform and are thus technically difficult to implement. On the other hand the passive methods are restricted to daytime measurements and areas of low cloud cover.

A review of issued U.S. patents reveals several techniques to measure atmospheric air pressure temperature and moisture. Fema U.S. Pat. No. 5 111 055 discloses a method and system for the optical measurements of the air pressure by laser excitation particularly in front of an aircraft. Korb et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 493 553 discloses a method and apparatus for measuring temperature and pressure that uses a laser beam. Fujisaka et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 081 220 discloses a radar system for observing weather phenomena. Argento U.S. Pat. No. 2 703 079 discloses a method of and apparatus for determining the oxygen content of a gas. Shnier U.S. Pat. No. 6 590 661 discloses optical methods for selectively sensing remote vocal sound waves. Nelson et al. discloses a microwave radiometer and methods for sensing atmospheric moisture and temperature. McCaul et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 625 189 discloses a technique using gas spectroscopy that entails generating laser radiation passing the laser radiation through a volume containing human breath multiple times and detecting the laser radiation that is not absorbed by gases in the volume.

None of these known techniques provide a reliable accurate cost effective and active system to remotely sense measurements of surface air pressure.

Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to provide methods and apparatus to accurately and reliably measure surface air pressure from a remote location.

It is another object of the present invention that the aforesaid apparatus and method can be implemented at reasonable cost.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will be apparent from the ensuing description and the accompanying drawings.

In at least one embodiment of the present invention the apparatus is comprised of an active microwave radar system that operates at moderate to strong Oabsorption bands between about 5.3 6.0 millimeter wavelengths i.e. about 50 56 GHz in order to effect remote sensing of surface air pressure. The active microwave system consists of a dual or multiple frequency channel 02 band radar apparatus. Accordingly two frequency channels or more are used to determine the relative received power RRP ratios of the two different wavelength echoes. The dual wavelength channels have very similar water vapor WV and liquid water LW absorption characteristics and illumination footprints. Thus the microwave absorption effects due to LW and WV are effectively removed from the ratio of reflected radar signals of the two channels. The relative received power values of the two different wavelength signals are processed to determine the differential absorption index that has a near linear relationship with surface air pressure.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the present invention two wavelength signals are transmitted into the atmosphere so as to produce altered e.g. reflected signals. A receiver collects the returned signals and the received power value for each wavelength is then determined. A predetermined algorithm uses the power values of the received signals to determine the differential absorption index and the corresponding surface air pressure.

In one embodiment the apparatus of the present invention comprises a transmitter to transmit a signal having multiple frequencies into the atmosphere so as to produce altered signals a receiver to receive the altered signals and a processing resource to determine the altered power value for each wavelength and then use the determined received power values to determine the differential absorption index and the corresponding surface air pressure.

In another embodiment the apparatus of the present invention comprises an active radar apparatus for measuring surface air pressure comprising a transmitter system to transmit a first signal having a first frequency into the atmosphere and a second signal having a second frequency into the atmosphere so as to produce first and second received signals respectively a transmitting antenna to direct the first and second signals into the atmosphere and a receiving antenna to receive the first and second received signals. In this embodiment the active radar apparatus further comprises a receiver system having signal processing components to process the received first and second received signals an analog to digital converter resource to convert the processed first and second received signals to digital data and a computer programmed with a predetermined algorithm that performs numerical computations on the digital data to determine the relative received power of the first and second received signals the differential absorption index and the corresponding surface air pressure. The active radar apparatus can further comprise a display device to display the determined differential absorption index and the determined corresponding surface air pressure

Referring to there is shown a general block diagram of apparatus of the present invention which measures surface air pressure. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention apparatus comprises an active microwave radar system that operates at strong Oabsorption bands between about 50 56 GHz in order to effect remote sensing of surface air pressure. The active microwave radar system consists of a dual or multiple frequency channel Oband radar apparatus. In an advantageous embodiment apparatus is configured as an airborne active microwave radar system. However apparatus can also be easily configured for other situations such as ground based or space borne situations. Apparatus generally comprises transmitter system as known in the art to transmit signals into the atmosphere. These signals may be transmitted simultaneously or serially. These signals propagate through the atmosphere either directly to or via reflection to a receiving system and are altered by the atmosphere producing signal . Although transmission and bi static embodiments are also envisioned the apparatus embodied in represents a monostatic configuration as such it receives signals reflected by the atmosphere terrain ocean surface or manmade objects.

Apparatus further comprises receiver system as known in the art which receives the aforesaid reflected signals . Receiver system can include signal processing components that amplify demodulate and filter received reflected signals . As shown receiver system outputs processed signals that are then directed into processing resource . Processing resource processes the signals with a predetermined algorithm to calculate the surface air pressure. Processing resource executes the predetermined algorithm using the measured power levels of the received reflected signals to generate the differential absorption index and the corresponding surface air pressure. Processing resource can also use predetermined data such as system losses and gains of transmitter system and receiver system in determining the power levels of the received reflected signals the differential absorption index and surface air pressure.

The transmitted radar wavelengths 13 are chosen such that the primary differential factor affecting signal attenuation is the difference in oxygen absorptions along the signal path. By selecting two radar wavelengths and signals that are not significantly different the surface radar backscattering coefficient and system gain effects can be made insignificant as variables in the received signal strength. Additionally if these wavelengths are chosen so that their liquid water absorption coefficients and water vapor absorption coefficients are very similar then the ratio of radar received powers from these two channels is represented by Equation 1 exp 2 1 This ratio is dominantly determined by the surface air pressure P. The temperature and pressure dependencies of the effective Oabsorption coefficients have secondary influences on the spectrum power ratio. Rearranging Equation 1 so that the surface air pressure Pis a function of the radar power ratio yields Equation 2 log 2 where Cand Care the wavelength dependent coefficients of the relationship between the radar power ratio and surface air pressure and can be estimated from the radar measurements or theoretical calculations of the radar system design. The Ri value is the logarithm of the radar power ratio at wavelengths and referred to herein as the differential absorption index. As can be seen from Equation 2 a very simple near linear relationship between surface air pressure and the differential absorption index is expected from Oband radar data. Thus in accordance with the invention the surface air pressure is determined by a linear regression.

Processor is also programmed with predetermined data such as known system losses and gains e.g. insertion loss antenna gain amplifier gain waveguide loss receiver processor gain etc. Processor uses such predetermined data when determining transmitted and received power levels and ratios of relative received powers and differential absorption index.

Simulation of the technique of the present invention has shown that the root mean square rms error of the radar surface pressure can be as low as about 4 7 mb under both clear and cloudy conditions given a 15 dB signal to noise ratio. shows the simulated relationship between the differential absorption index at two representative wavelengths and surface air pressure. The rms error is about 4.1 mb.

The present invention may be implemented with commercially available radar and RF components antennae and signal processing components. Furthermore the present invention can be adapted for airborne or space borne scenarios to monitor surface pressure fields. The present invention has many applications including weather observations numerical weather forecasts and tropical storm intensity and track predictions. The low rms error has significant advantages especially with respect to predicting the tracks of tropical storms. For example it has been found that low rms values between about 4 7 mb can reduce the tropical storm tracking error from 350 km to 100 km or less for a three day forecast.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

