---

title: Vibrating debris remover
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention relate to a device which may be permanently attached or removably attached to a material such as a vehicular glass window or airplane wing. This device may comprise of a converter sub-unit or vibrator and a coupler. These elements may be arranged to propagate mechanical motion generated by the converter sub-unit through the coupler and optionally into the edge of the attached material. The resulting vibration motion in the material, which could take the form of a longitudinal compression/rarefaction wave, transverse wave, or a combination of the two waveforms, may be of a sufficient magnitude so as to cause the adhesive bond between the material's surface and other solid debris, such as ice, to be broken. This allows the debris to fall away while not damaging the material. The vibration motion in the material may be also of sufficient magnitude to remove a liquid such as water from the material surface. In other embodiments, the device is connected to a pulser/receiver and/or a frequency spectrum electronic unit to function as a debris detector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07770453&OS=07770453&RS=07770453
owner: 
number: 07770453
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070920
---
This application is a Continuation in Part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 461 667 filed Aug. 1 2006 and entitled Vibrating Debris Remover which is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 949 613 entitled Vibrating Debris Remover now U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 553 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 550 567 filed Mar. 4 2004 all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made by an employee of the Untied States Government. The Government has a nonexclusive irrevocable royalty free license in the invention with power to grant licenses for all governmental purposes.

This invention relates to a device that when attached along the edge of a material such as a vehicular window will propagate mechanical vibration or shock motion created by the device into the material with sufficient magnitude in order to remove solid debris such as ice and or liquid debris such as water from the surface of the material. The present invention shall be described chiefly with respect to an application for the removal of ice and or water from the windshield of an automobile. However it will be easily understood that the described application of the invented device is in no way restrictive to a great many other applications in which the removal of debris from other types of material surfaces may be required. Some examples of other applications include ice removal from aircraft wings adhesive removal on or between two materials cookware cleaning and the removal of paint from a material surface. Additionally a pulser receiver and or frequency spectrum electronic unit could be attached to the converter sub unit such that the device could also function as a debris detector.

It is important for the safe operation of any vehicle that a clear unobstructed view to the outside environment be maintained. An example of such viewing need is for the driver of an automobile. In this application material such as the windshield side windows rearview mirrors and rear windows have a surface exposed to the outside weather elements where rain snow ice and other debris can accumulate. The accumulation of this debris poses a significant problem with maintaining a clear view to the outside environment.

In an attempt to maintain a clear view to the outside environment a device utilizing mechanical motion has been developed. This device which is either removable or permanently attached to the edge of a material is comprised of two elements a converter sub unit and an amplifying coupler sub unit. The converter sub unit converts an energy source such as electrical pneumatic or fluid into mechanical vibration or shock pulse motion. The amplifying coupler sub unit transfers the mechanical motion generated by the converter sub unit into the attached material. Also the amplifying coupler sub unit can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit mechanical motion before it enters the material.

In prior art one method used to remove solid debris such as ice from a material surface consists of a device which blows hot air on the material s interior surface or heats the material surface by the Joule effect through metal wires attached to the material. A major drawback to these devices is that the time it takes to remove the debris is significant. Also the field of view is obstructed with the metal wire technology.

In other prior art another method used to remove debris such as ice and or liquid from a material surface consists of mounting transducer elements which vibrate directly onto the material surface. The transducer elements are made from piezoelectric or magnetostrictive material and electrical energy is used to make these elements vibrate. A major drawback of these devices is that the vibrating transducer elements mount perpendicular and directly on the material surface. Because the vibrating transducer elements are attached in this manner the magnitude of the vibrations developed by the transducer elements cannot be altered and in particular magnified prior to entering into the material. This results in a design which is very inefficient because of the amount of energy required to generate the necessary vibration amplitude in the material to remove the unwanted debris. Another drawback of these devices is that the dimensions of the vibrating transducer piezoelectric or magnetostrictive elements have to be carefully chosen such that their natural vibration frequency is tuned to that of the material in order that the device works efficiently. Additionally some of the above referenced devices are mounted on the material surface in such a way that the field of view through the material can be highly obstructed if applied in the use of windshield or side windows for removing debris.

One embodiment of the present invention may comprise a device having two elements a converter sub unit and an amplifying coupler sub unit. These two elements may used together to efficiently propagate mechanical motion or vibrations into for example an edge of a material causing the material to vibrate. Because the material may vibrate with sufficient displacement and acceleration the removal of the debris is achieved by breaking the adhesive bond existing between the material and the undesired debris. This may be done without harming the material and without obstructing the view through the material.

Therefore an embodiment of the present invention provides a system for removing ice water or other debris from a material by causing vibrational motion to occur in the material. The vibrations in the material may be the result of mechanical vibration or a shock pulse motion entering into the edge of the material through the use of an amplifying coupler sub unit. Another embodiment of the present invention may provide a debris removal system in which the vibration frequency is adjustable if required for matching the resonating vibration frequency of the material with debris attached.

In yet another embodiment a debris removal system may be operably associated with a pulser receiver unit and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit. In this embodiment the device could function as a debris sensor by analyzing the time difference between sending out a vibration and receipt of the corresponding electric signal that is generated by reflective vibrations vibrating the piezoelectric crystal or by analyzing the frequency spectrum of the electric signal generated by the reflected vibrations vibrating the piezoelectric crystal. The time shift of the vibrations and or frequency spectrum of the resulting electric signal may be compared to a known values of the same generated in the material with no debris attached. A deviation from the known values may indicated that debris is present.

The concern for the removal of debris from a material is very real. The present invention shall be described with respect to an automotive windshield. However this should in no way be restrictive as a great many other materials and applications exist to which this invented debris removal device could be employed.

As shown in some type of debris such as ice and or water can build on a material surface such as an automobile windshield to a level where visibility to the outside environment is impaired. This results in a dangerous operating condition. A vibrating debris remover has been invented that can remove debris such as ice from a material surface such as an automotive windshield or aircraft airframe . The vibrating debris remover consists of two parts the converter sub unit and the amplifying coupler sub unit to which the material is attached.

The converter sub unit and amplifying coupler sub unit are so arranged as to propagate mechanical vibration or shock pulse motion generated by the converter sub unit into the amplifying coupler sub unit and then into the edge of the material . The amplifying coupler sub unit can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit s mechanical vibration or shock pulse motion before it enters the material to which is attached some debris particle.

The resulting vibrations in the material will be in the form of a longitudinal motion transverse motion or a combination of the two based on how the amplifying coupler sub unit is attached to the material . The longitudinal motion in the material is the result of compressions and rarefactions in the material s molecular density and is only in the direction of the propagating vibrations. The longitudinal motion requires a change in the volume or molecular density of the material . The transverse motion is perpendicular to the direction of the propagating vibrations and is a result of shear stresses in the material . The longitudinal motion transverse motion or a combination of the two in the material is of a sufficient magnitude and strain rate such that the adhesive bond between the material and debris is quickly broken allowing the debris to fall away while not damaging the material . The vibrations showing the shift in molecular density as a function of position x or time t for a single wavelength in the material are also of sufficient magnitude as to cause water droplets to leave the material surface.

As shown in and the converter sub unit has the purpose of converting an external energy source such as electrical pneumatic or fluid into longitudinal mechanical motion at the converter sub unit tip surface . For example the longitudinal mechanical motion of the converter sub unit tip surface could take the form of a sine wave random wave complex wave or a pulse wave . In addition the longitudinal mechanical motion of the converter sub unit tip surface could be a combination of all or some of the above mentioned waveforms.

There are several devices in existence which can perform the function of the converter sub unit . As an example an electrical energy source can be converted into longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit s acoustic transformer surface through the use of a piezoelectric transducer consisting of piezoelectric material as shown in . An electrical oscillator energy source is passed to the piezoelectric material via electrodes causing the piezoelectric material to expand and contract i.e. vibrate . As the piezoelectric material expands and contracts it pushes against an acoustic transformer causing the acoustic transformer surface to vibrate. Electrical energy can also be converted into longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface through the use of a magnetostrictive transducer.

An electrical energy source can also be converted into longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface through the use of an electric motor and gearing.

As a further example a pneumatic energy source can be converted into longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface through the use of a pneumatic hammer.

As a final example longitudinal mechanical vibration motion of the converter sub unit tip surface can be created through the use of whistles and sirens which use a fluid jet energy source such as compressed air to pass through an orifice causing the converter sub unit tip surface to vibrate.

As an example of a device that can create a longitudinal mechanical shock pulse motion an electrically activated solenoid can be used to cause the movement of a plunger component. This plunger component can be a metal rod such that when it contacts another surface a shock pulse is created which travels into the contacting surface such as the one on the amplifying coupler sub unit .

The converter sub unit tip surface is in contact with the amplifying coupler sub unit surface an example of which is shown in . These two surfaces are connected to each other in such a fashion to ensure that the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion from the converter sub unit tip surface transfers into the amplifying coupler sub unit surface . This causes the amplifying coupler sub unit surface to have longitudinal vibration motion which transfers through the amplifying coupler sub unit and creates longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface .

For example as shown in the connection could be made with an inserted threaded stud . Attachment of the converter sub unit and the amplifying coupler sub unit onto the threaded stud is made such that the converter sub unit tip surface and the amplifying coupler sub unit surface are placed and remain in compression. This configuration results in a design which the converter sub unit can be removed and replaced relatively easily.

As an additional example as shown in the converter sub unit tip surface and the amplifying coupler sub unit surface could be placed in compression by pushing the converter sub unit tip surface up against the amplifying coupler sub unit surface through the use of a clamping device such that the converter sub unit tip surface and the amplifying coupler sub unit surface are placed and remain in compression. This configuration also results in a design which the converter sub unit can be removed and replaced.

As shown in the converter sub unit tip surface and amplifying coupler sub unit surface could be made nonexistent because the converter sub unit and the amplifying coupler sub unit are made from a single piece of material . In this arrangement the converter sub unit would not be removable from the amplifying coupler sub unit . This configuration results in a design that would create a more difficult maintenance situation if the converter sub unit had to be replaced.

In addition to an interface that can transfer motion between the converter sub unit tip surface and the amplifying coupler sub unit surface it is also advantageous to understand what impedance values exist between the materials used for the converter sub unit and the amplifying coupler sub unit . By understanding the material impedances the values of the stress wave reflection and stress wave transmission coefficients can be calculated at the interface of the converter sub unit tip surface to the amplifying coupler sub unit surface . The longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the converter sub unit tip surface is transferred by a force from the converter sub unit tip surface pushing up against the amplifying coupler sub unit surface . Since this force is acting through the cross sectional area of the converter sub unit tip surface a stress state is present at this interface.

This stress state is important to know because there are cases in which the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the converter sub unit tip does not create any substantial longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the amplifying coupler sub unit surface . This condition exists if there is a significant difference between the impedance values of the converter sub unit and amplifying coupler sub unit materials. The result is a very inefficient design and the amount of energy required for the converter sub unit to remove debris on the material surface would be unreasonably high.

Referring to and assuming that the converter sub unit tip surface and the amplifying coupler sub unit surface have identical cross sectional areas mathematical equations 1 and 2 can be used to determine the stress transmission and stress reflection coefficients at this interface.

Using equations 1 and 2 it can be shown that if the material properties of the converter sub unit and amplifying coupler sub unit are the same then Z Z the stress reflection coefficient is zero and the stress transmission coefficient is one. This means that the incident stress wave is completely transmitted with no reflected stress wave . The incident stress wave and the transmitted stress wave have the same magnitudes.

However if Z Z it can be shown using equations 1 and 2 that the magnitude of the transmitted stress wave will have less magnitude than the original incident stress wave . In addition the reflected stress wave will have a negative value. This means that an incident stress wave that is compressive in nature will be reflected as a rarefaction and that an incident stress wave that is a rarefaction in nature will be reflected as a compressive wave.

By choosing the proper materials for the converter sub unit and amplifying coupler an efficient transfer of stress can be achieved at the converter sub unit tip surface to amplifying coupler surface .

The amplifying coupler sub unit has the purpose of transmitting the converter sub unit s longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion into the edge of the material . There are several advantages to using an amplifying coupler sub unit . These advantages are I the converter sub unit can be easily removed for repairs and also easily installed II the amplifying coupler sub unit can serve as an impedance buffer to better match that of the converter sub unit tip material to that of the material with attached debris III the amplifying coupler sub unit can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit s mechanical motion before it enters the material IV it can direct the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion developed by the converter sub unit in a direction which is not the same as the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion direction in the material and V the amplifying coupler sub unit can be specially designed to attach to the material edge as shown in .

As an example to explain how the amplifying coupler sub unit can be designed to serve as an impedance buffer or how it can be designed to reduce magnify or keep constant the amplitude of the converter sub unit s mechanical motion before it enters the material mathematical equations 3 and 4 can be used.

Referring to and equations 3 and 4 the knowledge of how stress will transfer through an interface of two different materials and a step in cross sectional areas is presented. represents a side view of an amplifying coupler sub unit that utilizes a step change in height along its length.

These equations take into account driving point impedances differences of material properties and cross sectional areas to determine the relationship between the incident reflected and transmitted stress waves.

And since force balance at the interface must be maintained the following force balance relationship must be achieved Equation 5 

Since in this case the amplifying coupler sub unit is made of a single material Z Z . Referring to and using equations 3 and 4 it is shown that as long as there is no cross sectional area changes in the amplifying coupler sub unit there will be no reflected stress wave . Also the transmitted stress wave magnitude is equal to the incident stress wave . Thus the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the amplifying coupler sub unit surface and the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion present at the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface will have the same magnitude. Using equation 5 force balance across the interface is maintained.

In reality there will be some damping losses in the amplifying coupler sub unit which will cause the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the amplifying coupler sub unit tip to be lower in magnitude than the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion at the amplifying coupler sub unit surface . However the material damping loss factors can be minimized.

Referring to and using equations 3 and 4 it is shown that if the amplifying coupler sub unit has a cross sectional area change in which cross sectional area A which is a function of the diameter or thickness dimension h is larger than cross sectional area A which is a function of the diameter or thickness dimension h the amplifying coupler sub unit will have a reflected stress wave that has a magnitude that is less than the incident stress wave and will have the opposite sign of the incident wave. This opposite sign means that an incident compressive stress wave is reflected as a rarefaction tension stress wave and an incident rarefaction stress wave is reflected as compression stress wave. The transmitted stress wave will be greater in magnitude than the incident stress wave . As a check the force balance of equation 5 is maintained.

Referring to and using equations 3 and 4 it is shown that if the amplifying coupler sub unit has a cross sectional area change in which cross sectional area A which is a function of the diameter or thickness dimension h is smaller than cross sectional area A which is a function of the diameter or thickness dimension h the amplifying coupler sub unit will have a reflected stress wave that has a magnitude which is less than the incident stress wave and will have the same sign of the incident wave. This same sign means that an incident compressive stress wave is reflected as a compressive stress wave and an incident rarefaction tension stress wave is reflected as rarefaction stress wave. The transmitted stress wave will be smaller in magnitude than the incident stress wave . As a check the force balance of equation 5 is maintained.

As can be seen from equations 3 and 4 there are a great many combinations of material driving point impedances and area ratios that could be used in designing the stepped amplifying coupler sub unit . However it can be stated that if the stepped amplifying coupler sub unit is made of a single material and there is a step change in height along the amplifying coupler sub unit such that A Aand since stress is proportional to displacement then the magnitude of the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface will be greater than the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the amplifying coupler sub unit surface based only on these parameters.

There are other amplifying coupler sub unit designs that do not utilize a step change in area along the amplifying coupler sub unit length to amplify the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion of the amplifying coupler sub unit surface . These designs still have a change in height between the amplifying coupler sub unit surface and the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface but utilize other geometries to achieve this. As examples of these other geometries shows the side views of amplifying coupler sub units that have the following geometries step catenoidal exponential and linear taper . also shows how the maximum displacements X t and internal material stresses t vary along the length of the amplifying coupler sub unit .

There are many choices for the amplifying coupler sub unit geometries. Several engineering text books are available that go into great detail as to how to calculate engineering parameters such as displacement and internal material stress of amplifying coupler sub units that have various geometric properties.

The amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface is in contact with the edge of the material . These two surfaces are connected to each other in such a fashion as to ensure that the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion from the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface transfers into the material of interest causing the material to vibrate with a longitudinal transverse or both a longitudinal and transverse motion .

The amplifying coupler sub unit can be connected to the material at some angle as shown in . If the amplifying coupler sub unit is attached parallel 0 to the material surface then a longitudinal wave will be present in the material . If the amplifying coupler sub unit is connected to the material such that 0 

For example as shown in the connection could be made with an inserted fastener attaching the amplifying coupler sub unit and the material together such that the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge are preferably placed and remain in compression.

Additionally as shown in the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge could be placed and remain in compression by pushing the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface up against the material edge through the use of a clamping device such that the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge are placed and remain in compression.

As shown in the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface and material edge could be glued together with an adhesive . During the adhesive application process the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge would be preferably placed in compression with each other and held in place until the adhesive cures. After the adhesive cures the two surfaces would be held in place by the adhesive with longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion transferring from the amplifying coupler sub unit into the material through the adhesive. This similar process could be used to attach the converter sub unit surface to the amplifying coupler sub unit surface .

As shown in the amplifying coupler sub unit and material could be glued together with an adhesive along the side surfaces. During the adhesive process the amplifying coupler sub unit and the material would be placed in compression with each other and held in place until the adhesive cured. After the adhesive cures the two surfaces would be held in place by the adhesive with longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion transferring from the amplifying coupler sub unit into the material through the adhesive.

As a final example shown in the attachment or joint between the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface and material edge could be made nonexistent by forming the amplifying coupler sub unit and the material from a single piece of material .

In any case it is nonetheless advantageous to ensure a good attachment exists between the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface which is experiencing longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion and the material edge . In a preferred embodiment the amplifying coupler tip sub unit surface and the material edge substantially remain in compression or have a strong adhesive joint between them.

An additional feature of the amplifying coupler sub unit as shown in is that it can be designed to direct the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion developed by the converter sub unit in a direction and or plane of reference which is not the same as the longitudinal mechanical vibration and or shock pulse motion in the material .

In addition to ensuring a good compressive or adhesive attachment between the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface and the material edge it is also advantageous to understand what impedance values exists between the materials used for the amplifying coupler sub unit and the material . By understanding the material impedances the values of the stress wave reflection and stress wave transmission coefficients can be calculated at the interface of the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface to material edge . The longitudinal vibration motion of the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface is transferred by a force from the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface pushing up against the material edge . Since this force is acting through the cross sectional area of the amplifying coupler sub unit tip surface a stress state is present at this interface. An efficient matching process of the materials and area changes between the amplifying coupler sub unit and material are similar as was described in section 3.0.

The material of interest has the debris that is to be removed. For example and as shown in this material surface may serve the purpose of the windshield of an automobile which is caused to vibrate by the vibrating debris remover . It may also be the leading edge of an aircraft wing as shown in or any of a plurality of other materials that may have debris attached. In any case the existence of debris such as ice and water on the material surface is not desired and is to be removed.

In order that sufficient relative acceleration strain and strain rate can be achieved at the interface between the debris and material an efficient design must be developed. An efficient design for the vibrating debris remover invention not only has to deal with the impedance matching of the converter sub unit to the amplifying coupler sub unit and the amplifying coupler sub unit to the material of interest but it also must be designed to vibrate with the least amount of energy as possible while achieving the highest accelerations and strain rates in the material and debris . This condition is known as resonance. Once the resonance state is achieved the particle motions in the amplifying coupler sub unit and the material of interest can have much greater amplitudes than the motions present in the material particles of the converter sub unit . If low material damping is present high Q or amplification values can be achieved. The result of high Q values is particle motion and accelerations in the material of interest which will cause the adhesive bond with the debris particles to be broken.

To achieve resonance the frequency of vibration of the converter sub unit amplifying coupler sub unit and the material of interest must be the same or within very close tolerance . Therefore the operating frequency of the converter sub unit and the amplifying coupler sub unit must both be based on the frequency of a waveform traveling in the material .

Referring to the fundamental frequency of vibration of a longitudinal wave in the material can be calculated from mathematical equation 6 .

Once the vibration fundamental frequency of a longitudinal waveform in the material has been determined it is advantageous to determine the physical dimensions for the amplifying coupler sub unit such that it also wants to vibrate at the same frequency f . In addition the converter sub unit may be designed to operate at this same frequency f .

Since the amplifying coupler sub unit is preferably to be designed to vibrate at the same or similar frequency as the material and a stepped amplifying coupler sub unit is easily manufactured equation 7 has been derived to determine the required length las shown in of a stepped amplifying coupler sub unit in order for it to vibrate at the same frequency f as the material . For a stepped amplifying coupler sub unit in which the length of the larger cross sectional area aas shown in is equal to one half of the total amplifying coupler sub unit length a las shown in the following equation can be developed 

If proper impedance matching is performed between all materials and the vibrating debris remover is designed to vibrate at the same frequency f as the material then an energy efficient system will be developed.

In order that sufficient relative acceleration strain and strain rate can be achieved at the interface between the debris and material an efficient design must be developed. The most efficient design for the shock pulse debris remover invention not only has to deal with the impedance matching of the converter sub unit to the amplifying coupler sub unit and the amplifying coupler sub unit to the material of interest but the amplifying coupler sub unit should be designed to vibrate at a resonant frequency as the material of interest.

The frequency of vibration of the amplifying coupler sub unit and the material of interest should be the same or within close tolerance . The operating frequency of the amplifying coupler sub unit is based on the frequency of a longitudinal waveform traveling in the material determined from equation 6. Once the vibration frequency of the waveform in the material has been determined it is advantageous to determine the physical dimensions for the amplifying coupler sub unit such that it also wants to vibrate at the same frequency. The process of designing a stepped amplifying coupler sub unit for a vibrating system was described in Section 8.0 using equation 7 . This exact same process is used to design a stepped amplifying coupler sub unit for a shock pulse converter sub unit . In fact the amplifying coupler sub unit designed in Section 8.0 is the exact same stepped amplifying coupler sub unit designed for a shock pulse converter sub unit

For a vibrating debris remover designed to produce a shock pulse or multiple shock pulses only the amplifying coupler sub unit has to be designed to vibrate at the same frequency as the material for an energy efficient system to be developed as was similarly done for the vibrating system.

If the converter sub unit utilizes a piezoelectric crystal to convert electrical energy into mechanical motion the converter sub unit may also be attached to a pulser receiver and or a frequency spectrum electronic unit . A pulser receiver is a device that that can generate electronic signals and receive electronic signals. A frequency spectrum electronic unit transforms a time history of an electronic signal into an electronic frequency spectrum. In such an embodiment the assembly may alternatively or additionally be used as a debris detector as shown in . The invented device may function as a debris detector by either detecting vibration pulse delays as described in and or vibration spectrum frequency shifts as described in .

With reference to a pulser receiver may be attached to vibrating debris remover to form a debris detector . If the external energy source were not turned on or was eliminated altogether then a pulsed energy source similar to one shown in could be sent to the piezoelectric crystals by the pulser receiver electronic unit . This unit could be similar without limitation to those units used in material Non Destructive Evaluation testing NDE such as the RITEC RPR 4000 or the JSR DPR500 electronic units. Any other suitable pulser receiver as known in the art is contemplated for use in this embodiment. The pulser receiver may cause the piezoelectric crystals to pulse causing mechanical motion to propagate into the material . This mechanical motion would reflect at the end of the material and return to the piezoelectric crystals . This returning signal would cause the piezoelectric crystals to vibrate. The piezoelectric crystal vibrations may create an electrical signal which would be detected by the pulser receiver electronic unit . The time delay between the pulsed signal and the received signal could then be measured. A known value of this time delay from a material with no debris would be known and compared to the measured time delay. If this measured time delay were different from the measured time delay then debris would be present. The amount of debris that is present on the material surface may be determined based on the difference between the known time delay and the measured time delay. For example the amount of debris present may be proportional to the difference between the known time delay and the measured time delay.

With reference to a frequency spectrum electronic unit may be attached to vibrating debris remover to form a debris detector . If the external energy source were not turned on or was eliminated altogether then a burst of vibratory excitation energy could be sent to the piezoelectric crystals by the frequency spectrum electronic unit . This would cause the converter coupler and material to vibrate. After this burst of excitation energy the converter coupler and material would continue to mechanically vibrate at resonant frequencies until structural damping stopped such vibration. This mechanical vibration would be detected by the piezoelectric crystals which would convert this motion into an electrical signal and be sent to the pulser receiver and or frequency spectrum electronic unit . The electrical signal received by the frequency spectrum electronic unit from the vibrating piezoelectric crystals would be broken down into its frequency spectrum. A known value of this frequency spectrum from a material with no debris would be known. If this measured frequency spectrum were different from the known value in either frequency and or magnitude then debris would be indicated as present. The amount of debris present on the material surface may be determined by the value of the difference in frequency and or magnitude between the known frequency spectrum and measured frequency spectrum. For example the amount of debris present may be proportional to the difference between the frequency and or magnitude of the known frequency spectrum and the measured frequency spectrum. The principles preferred embodiments and modes of operation of the present invention have been described in the forgoing application. The invention which is intended to be protected herein should not however be construed as limited to the particular forms disclosed as these are to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive. Variations and changes may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the present invention. Accordingly the foregoing detailed description should be considered exemplary in nature and not limited to the scope and spirit of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

