---

title: Techniques to manage power based on motion detection
abstract: Techniques to manage power based on motion detection are described. For example, a mobile computing device may include a radio module having a communications failure event detector operative to detect a communications failure event, a motion detector operative to detect motion, and a processor coupled to the radio module and the motion detector. The processor operative to execute a scan control module to determine the mobile computing device is moving or stationary, and control scanning operations by the radio module in accordance with the determination. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08254858&OS=08254858&RS=08254858
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08254858
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones may provide various processing capabilities. For example mobile devices may provide personal digital assistant PDA features including word processing spreadsheets synchronization of information e.g. e mail with a desktop computer and so forth.

In addition such devices may have wireless communications capabilities. More particularly mobile devices may employ various communications technologies to provide features such as mobile telephony mobile e mail access web browsing and content e.g. video and radio reception. Exemplary wireless communications technologies include cellular satellite and mobile data networking technologies.

Providing both processing and communications capabilities in a single device produces exceptional power management issues for smart phones particularly as form factors for smart phones continue to decrease. As a result battery life for a smart phone may be substantially shortened. This may force frequent recharging operations thereby impairing the convenience of such devices. Consequently improved power management techniques are desired.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to power management techniques for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to power management techniques for a mobile computing device based on detected motion for the mobile computing device.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include a radio module arranged to provide voice communications capabilities and or data communications capabilities for the mobile computing device. The radio module may include a communications failure event detector operative to detect a communications failure event for the radio module. One example of a communications failure event may include without limitation when a radio module detects that a received signal strength indication RSSI for one or more radio signals are below a certain threshold value. The mobile computing device may also include a motion detector operative to detect motion for the mobile computing device. The mobile computing device may further include a processor coupled to the radio module and the motion detector. The processor may be operative to execute a scan control module to determine whether the mobile computing device is moving or stationary. This may be accomplished for example by receiving an appropriate signal from the motion detector. The scan control module may control scanning operations performed by the radio module in accordance with the movement determination. For example the scan control module may send control directives to reduce or suspend scanning operations when the mobile computing device is stationary and initiate or resume scanning operations when the mobile computing device is moving. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Controlling scanning operations based on movement of the mobile computing device may provide several advantages. For example a radio module typically scans for radio signals on a continuous or periodic basis for a number of different reasons such as to receive telephone calls initiate telephone calls improve call quality perform hand off operations and so forth. Such scanning operations draw a significant amount of power from a power supply e.g. a battery for the mobile computing device. The power supply has limited amounts of power and efficient use of the power supply provides various operational advantages. The radio module however typically performs scanning operations regardless of whether there are any wireless resources within communication range which unnecessarily draws power from the power supply. This condition is particularly unnecessary whenever the mobile computing device is stationary in an area with little or no wireless coverage since there is little likelihood of the radio module entering an area with any active radio signals. This may unnecessarily draw power from the power supply thereby reducing battery life.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Treo smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . As depicted in the memory may store a scan control module in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to control or provide scanning operations for the mobile computing device . Although the scan control module is shown as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that the scan control module may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device such as a radio processor and accompanying memory implemented by the radio module . Further although the scan control module is depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that the operations for the scan control module may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The radio module may comprise various radio elements including a radio processor one or more transceivers amplifiers filters switches and so forth. The radio module may communicate with remote devices across different types of wireless links utilizing various communications techniques. For example the radio module may communicate across wireless links provided by one or more cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth. The radio module or a second radio module may also communicate across data networking links provided by one or more cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to these examples.

The radio module may additionally or alternatively communicate across various non cellular communications links. The radio module may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems or protocols. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth. The mobile computing device may also utilize different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v1.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

It may be appreciated that the radio module may utilize different communications elements e.g. radio processors transceivers etc. to implement different communications techniques. Furthermore the radio module may support multiple communications techniques by implementing multiple sets of corresponding radio equipment. For example the radio module may support GSM communications using a first transceiver IEEE 802.xx e.g. 802.11 communications using a second transceiver Bluetooth communications using a third transceiver and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The radio module may be arranged to periodically or continuously scan wireless shared media such as one or more portions of the radio frequency RF spectrum for the various radios implemented by the radio module . The radio module may implement a scanning algorithm to perform various scanning operations for radio energy. Radio energy may refer to RF energy used by a radio or wireless transceiver for communicating information rather than spurious energy received from various electronic devices such as a microwave monitor television and so forth. For example the radio module may measure a received radio signal strength received signal strength RSS or received signal strength indication RSSI from nearby wireless resources collectively referred to herein as RSSI . An RSSI is typically a measurement of the power present in a received radio signal in arbitrary units. The RSSI may provide an indication of how much information may be communicated between devices. Typically a lower RSSI implies lower information rates or quality while a higher RSSI implies higher information rates or quality.

The scanning operations may include scanning for radio energy of a given RSSI in the appropriate bands or sub bands of the RF spectrum allocated to the one or more transceivers or radios implemented by the radio module . For example the radio module may scan for various radio signals received from various wireless resources . The wireless resources may utilize a radio module implementing the same or similar communication techniques as implemented for the radio module . The radio module may perform the scanning operations using a scan list to scan various sets of frequencies. The radio module may perform scanning operations for any number of reasons such as establishing managing or terminating a voice communication session or a data communication session performing hand off operations when the mobile computing device is moving between wireless resources e.g. switching communication channels for the same wireless resource e.g. due to bandwidth or quality issues and so forth.

The motion detector may be arranged to detect motion or absence of motion for the mobile computing device . The motion detector may comprise or be implemented using any particular motion detection device or technique such as an accelerometer a gyroscope a global positioning system a network enhanced global positioning system a base station proximity system a triangulation system a time difference system a camera a proximity sensor and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In general operation the mobile computing device may provide various communications and computing resources for an operator or user. For example the radio module may be operative to continuously or periodically scan for radio signals from one or more wireless resources such as the radio signals from the respective wireless resources . The radio module may perform such scanning operations in anticipation of the mobile computing device initiating or receiving a voice communication e.g. telephone call or a data communication e.g. text message instant message . The radio module may perform such scanning operations during a voice communication or data communication session as well such as when anticipating a hand off between different sets of cellular radiotelephone infrastructure equipment e.g. base stations .

In some cases the mobile computing device may experience a communications failure event. In one embodiment for example the radio module may include a CFE detector arranged to monitor and detect for one or more types of communications failure events. A communications failure event may refer to any condition or event that prevents the mobile computing device from not being capable of communicating with another device over a wireless channel. Some examples of a communications failure event may include without limitation a RSSI failure event a timeout event an acquisition failure event a decoding error event and so forth. A communications failure event may occur for any number of reasons such as when the mobile computing device does not have access to any wireless resources is outside the effective communication range of the wireless resources temporary or permanent equipment failure significant radio interference e.g. fading multipath signal attenuation channel impairments signal delay signal phase shift signal distortion signal noise etc. and so forth. The specific number and type of defined communications failure events may vary according to a given implementation.

In one embodiment for example the radio module may include a CFE detector arranged to monitor and detect for a communications failure event such as a RSSI failure event. The RSSI failure event may comprise an event where an RSSI is below an RSSI threshold value. In one embodiment the radio module may be operative to detect when a RSSI for one or more of the radio signals as transmitted from the wireless resources are below a certain threshold value such as an RSSI threshold value. For example the radio module may measure a RSSI from nearby wireless resources. When the RSSI is below a certain RSSI threshold value the mobile computing device may experience reduced communication capabilities and in some cases may be unable to communicate any information with the wireless resources . The latter case may sometimes be referred to as a lost coverage or a no coverage condition. When the radio module detects the RSSI is below a certain RSSI threshold value the radio module may output a signal indicating a RSSI failure event has occurred.

It may be appreciated that the particular RSSI threshold value may vary as desired for a given implementation depending on such factors as the type of information to communicate the application communicating the information the amount of information to communicate the sensitivity of the radio module whether one or more antennas are used an antenna diversity technique available power for the radio module and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment for example the radio module may include a CFE detector arranged to monitor and detect for a communications failure event such as a timeout event. A timeout event may comprise an event where the radio module does not receive one or more responses to transmitted requests within a defined time period. In one embodiment the radio module may implement one or more timers or use existing timers and begin timing operations whenever information is transmitted from the radio module to another wireless device. The transmitted information could be limited to information that typically requires some form of response or acknowledgement from the receiving wireless device. Whenever the timers indicate that an expected response has not been received within the defined time period the radio module may output a signal indicating a timeout event has occurred.

In one embodiment for example the radio module may include a CFE detector arranged to monitor and detect for a communications failure event such as an acquisition failure event. An acquisition failure event may comprise an event where the radio module does not acquire a communications channel e.g. voice or data within a defined time period. The radio module may attempt to locate and acquire a voice communications channel and or a data communications channel. Whenever the timers indicate that a communications channel has not been acquired within the defined time period the radio module may output a signal indicating an acquisition failure event has occurred.

In one embodiment for example the radio module may include a CFE detector arranged to monitor and detect for a communications failure event such as a decoding error event. A decoding error event may comprise an event where the radio module is not capable of properly decoding information received from another wireless device such as a beacon signal. This may occur for a number of reasons such as channel impairments distorting the received signal so that it may not be decoded and recognized by the mobile computing device . Whenever the radio module fails to decode information received from another wireless device or fails to decode received information within a defined time period the radio module may output a signal indicating a decoding error event has occurred.

In cases where the mobile computing device experiences a communications failure event the mobile computing device may still spend a significant amount of time in an active state or an idle state during which the radio module continuously monitors the radio environment by scanning for wireless resources that may be within range of the mobile computing device . For example a user might leave the mobile computing device in an idle state when at home to receive telephone calls or email messages. The radio module may continuously scan various operating frequencies for the various transceivers implemented for the radio module even though the radio environment is unlikely to change significantly when the mobile computing device is stationary or even when moving within the local confines of a residence or home. This consumes significant amounts of power from the power supply that has finite energy. This problem may be exacerbated whenever the mobile computing device is in an area with weak coverage or no coverage or located at a common boundary edge for two or more wireless resources . In the latter case the radio module may cycle through channel measurements for all the wireless resources within communication range of the radio module such as when attempting to determine whether a wireless resource has a stronger signal in anticipation of performing hand off operations. Given the time interval a user typically sleeps such scanning activity may cause the mobile computing device to drain the battery completely by the time the user awakes.

To solve these and other problems the scan control module may control activities for one or more elements of the mobile computing device . This may involve sending one or more directives to the appropriate elements. To provide such control the scan control module may include various logic routines and or circuitry that operate on information received from other elements. In one embodiment for example the scan control module may control operations of the radio module based on inputs received from the radio module and the motion detector . The scan control module may output various control directives to the radio module to control various scanning operations for the radio module based on the received inputs. In embodiments one or more processors may execute such logic and routines.

In some embodiments one or more interfaces may employ various techniques to exchange information between the elements of the mobile computing device . For example an interface may activate and or detect activated signal lines. Such signal lines may be dedicated to particular signals. Alternatively an interface may generate data messages to be transmitted across various connections. Exemplary connections may include a parallel interface a serial interface a bus interface and or a data network.

In various embodiments the CFE detector of the radio module may be operative to detect a communications failure event. The communications failure event may comprise for example a RSSI failure event a timeout event an acquisition failure event a decoding error event or some other communications failure event. The CFE detector may output an appropriate signal or message to the scan control module indicating the communications failure event. The motion detector may be operative to detect motion for the mobile computing device and output an appropriate signal or message to the scan control module . When a communications failure event is detected and the mobile computing device is stationary the scan control module may issue a control directive to the radio module to reduce or suspend scanning operations for the radio module . When the mobile computing device is moving the scan control module may issue a control directive to the radio module to initiate or resume scanning operations for the radio module . When the radio module does not detect a communications failure event the scan control module may refrain from issuing any control directives and allow the radio module to perform normal scanning operations regardless of whether the mobile computing device is moving or stationary.

In one embodiment the scan control module may be operative to determine the mobile computing device is stationary for a first time period and issue a control directive to reduce a scan rate used by the radio module for the scanning operations. The first time period may comprise a user configurable or default time period representing any desired time interval such as x seconds. The first time period may be used to control sensitivity for the scan control module . The first time period could be set for a time interval that allows for ordinary and expected stationary periods for the mobile computing device such as the duration of an average traffic signal for a traffic stop. This may avoid the scan control module from repeatedly issuing control directives to reduce suspend and resume scanning operations for normal operating environments thereby causing the radio module to continuously cycle through different operating modes that might unnecessarily consume power from the power supply for the mobile computing device . The exact value set for the first time period should balance power conservation goals with other design parameters such as ensuring priority communications are received by the mobile computing device and may vary with a given implementation. For example if the user expects an important telephone call the user may set the first time period for a longer period of time to increase the probability of receiving the incoming call.

Once the mobile computing device is stationary for the first time period the scan control module may issue a control directive to reduce a scan rate used by the radio module for the scanning operations. This may reduce power consumption from the power supply for the mobile computing device . The scan rate may represent how often the radio module scans for the radio signals within a given time period. For example the radio module may normally wake up from idle mode to active mode every 5 minutes perform scanning operations for minute and revert to idle mode once scanning operations are completed without detecting any radio signals. The scan control module may issue a control directive to reduce a scan rate and or scan interval for the radio module such as from 1 minute out of every 5 minutes to 30 seconds out of every 5 minutes for example.

In one embodiment the scan control module may be operative to determine the mobile computing device is stationary for a second time period and issue a control directive to suspend or terminate scanning operations by the radio module . This may further reduce power consumption from the power supply for the mobile computing device . As with the first time period the second time period may comprise a user configurable or default time period representing any desired time interval such as y seconds. The second time period may be used to control sensitivity for the scan control module beyond the first time period thereby allowing different scanning modes based on stationary time intervals. The second time period may account for a time interval that safely assumes the mobile computing device will remain stationary for sufficient time to justify the power saving features of suspending scanning operations of the radio module .

Once the radio module suspends scanning operations the scan control module may issue a control directive to resume scanning operations based on different criteria. For example the scan control module may issue a suspend duration representing an amount of time the radio module should not perform scanning operations such as 8 hours. The scan control module may set a timer for the suspend duration and send a control directive to the radio module to resume scanning operations based on the timer. This may be desirable if the motion detector becomes inoperative or disabled. The scan control module may periodically wake up the radio module as a safety measure. In another example the scan control module may not issue a suspend duration but rather allow the radio module to remain suspended while the mobile computing device remains stationary.

While the radio module is suspended the motion detector may continue to monitor the mobile computing device for any motion or movement. To enhance power conservation the type and arrangement for the motion detector should be selected to consume less energy than the radio module . When the motion detector detects movement of the mobile computing device the motion detector may send a signal to the scan control module . The scan control module may receive the signal from the motion detector and send a control directive to the radio module to resume scanning for radio signals when the mobile computing device is moving.

The scan control module may control scanning operations for the radio module in accordance with different types of movement of the mobile computing device . For example the mobile computing device may have movement patterns that are different when in a pocket or brief case while the operator is walking down the street versus driving in an automobile. Consequently the scan control module may have logic that resumes partial or full scanning operations based on the type of detected movement. This may be accomplished using one or more motion parameters to control sensitivity of the detected movement for the mobile computing device . Examples of various motion parameters may include without limitation a speed parameter a velocity parameter a direction parameter an altitude parameter and so forth.

In one embodiment the scan control module may use a speed parameter. Speed is a scalar quantity with dimensions of distance and time. Speed is the rate of motion or equivalently the rate of change in position many times expressed as distance d traveled per unit of time t. The scan control module may be arranged to send a control directive to the radio module to resume scanning for radio signals when the mobile computing device is moving at a measured speed above a threshold value speed. The speed parameter may be used to reflect the assumption that the radio module should not resume partial or full scanning operations until the mobile computing device moves at a speed equal to or greater than the average walking speed for a pedestrian the average driving speed for a driver and so forth. This may prevent the scan control module to issue a resume scanning signal for the radio module whenever the mobile computing device has spurious movement such as when bumped on a night stand or when moved from one side of a room to another side of the same room. Rather the movement should be of the type that would increase the probability that the mobile computing device may actually move within range of one or more of the wireless resources 

In one embodiment the scan control module may use a velocity parameter. Velocity is a vector quantity with dimensions of speed and direction. Velocity is defined as the rate of change of position. It is a vector physical quantity and therefore both speed and direction are required to define it. The scan control module may be arranged to send a control directive to the radio module to resume scanning for radio signals when the mobile computing device is moving at a measured velocity above a threshold value velocity. The velocity parameter may be used to reflect the assumption that the radio module should not resume partial or full scanning operations until the mobile computing device moves at a velocity equal to or greater than the average velocity achieved while walking or driving. This may prevent the scan control module to issue a resume scanning signal for the radio module whenever the mobile computing device has movement that might reach a minimum threshold value for a speed parameter but always returns to the original position such as the up and down movement of when an operator is walking on a treadmill stair climber elliptical trainer or some other exercise equipment.

The quality of the movement of the mobile computing device may also be augmented or enhanced using other elements implemented with the mobile computing device . For example the mobile computing device may include a separate GPS device not shown separately . The motion detector may be used to determine movement of the mobile computing device while the GPS device may be used to determine location for the mobile computing device . The scan control module may be arranged to issue a control directive to the radio module to resume partial or full scanning operations based on the movement and location of the mobile computing device . This may reflect the assumption that movement within a structure such as a house or office does not merit resuming scanning operations while movement outside of the house does merit resuming scanning operations. Alternatively the granularity of the location information may be increased to a level to detect movement within a house or office. This may reflect the assumption that movement within a structure may affect the detected communications failure event e.g. detected RSSI such as inter room or intra room movement and therefore sensitivity of the scan control module and the motion detector may be modified accordingly.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment the logic diagram may detect a communications failure event at block . For example the CFE detector of the radio module may continuously or periodically scan the radio signals received from the wireless resources . If one or both of the radio signals fall below a certain RSSI then the radio module may output a signal to the scan control module indicating a RSSI failure event. Similarly the radio module may be tuned to detect other communications failure events as previously described.

In one embodiment the logic diagram may determine a mobile computing device is moving or stationary at block . For example the motion detector may continuously or periodically monitor the mobile computing device to detect any movement. When movement is detected the motion detector may output a signal to the scan control module indicating the movement. Additionally or alternatively the motion detector may output a motion parameter for the movement as well.

In one embodiment the logic diagram may control scanning operations for radio signals by a radio in accordance with the determination at block . For example the scan control module may receive the signals from the radio module and or the motion detector and issue various control directives to the radio module to control scanning operations for the radio module . The control directives may include by way of example and not limitation control directives for reducing a scan rate used by the radio module for the scanning operations suspending scanning operations by the radio module while the mobile computing device remains stationary scanning for radio signals when the mobile computing device is moving scanning for radio signals when the mobile computing device is moving at a measured speed above a threshold value speed scanning for radio signals when the mobile computing device is moving at a measured velocity above a threshold value velocity and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In addition to controlling scanning operations for the radio module based on motion detection by the motion detector other elements of the mobile computing device may be controlled based on such movement. Additional logic may be implemented to switch other elements of the mobile computing device between various power modes based on when the mobile computing device is moving or stationary. For example the mobile computing device may reduce or suspend GPS operations when the mobile computing device is stationary. In another example the mobile computing device may reduce or suspend power to the entire radio module when the mobile computing device is stationary. In yet another example the mobile computing device may reduce or suspend power to the entire mobile computing device e.g. application processor radio processor and appropriate interfaces when the mobile computing device is stationary. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor e.g. similar to the radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth. The radio processor may include a detector . The detector may the same or similar to the detector described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . The OS and the application programs may be the same or similar to the application module described with reference to . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include a scan control module . The scan control module may the same or similar to the scan control module described with reference to . The radio processor may include a CFE detector . The CFE detector may be the same or similar to the CFE detector described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

