---

title: Reconstituted tobacco sheet and smoking article therefrom
abstract: A smoking article having one or more reconstituted tobacco split inner wrap strips is described. One or more split inner wrap strips extend coaxially along the tobacco column between the inner surface of an outer wrap of cigarette paper and the tobacco column. The tobacco blend includes burley and a second tobacco, such as flue-cured, oriental, Maryland, or rare and exotic tobaccos, and combinations thereof. This blend improves burley smoke character without increasing Hoffman analyte levels, especially tobacco-specific nitrosamines (i.e., TNSAs). A cigarette with an improved burley smoke character without increasing Hoffman analyte levels is also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08136533&OS=08136533&RS=08136533
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 08136533
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070924
---
This divisional application claims priority to and benefit from currently pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 920 466 filed Aug. 18 2004 which is a continuation in part application that claims priority to and benefit from currently pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 811 270 filed Mar. 26 2004 which is a continuation in part application that claims priority to and benefit from U.S. application Ser. No. 10 299 231 filed Nov. 19 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 827 087 issued on Dec. 7 2004 which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a process for making a reconstituted tobacco sheet and more particularly to a process for making a bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet having burley flue cured oriental Maryland rare and exotic tobaccos and combinations thereof contained in a gel matrix within the reconstituted tobacco sheet. Even more particularly the tobacco sheets having burley as well as flue cured oriental Maryland rare and exotic tobaccos and combinations thereof are slit into split inner wrap strips which are positioned within the tobacco rod s wrapper. Exotic tobaccos include but are not limited to Izmar Sumsun Yaka Latakia Perique Cavendish Rustica Fire cure and Dark or Sun cure.

In the manufacturing of smoking articles and particularly cigarettes it is common to use in the tobacco strip blend a percentage of strips of reconstituted tobacco. The reconstituted tobacco is generally prepared from tobacco fines veins stems and other waste tobacco products which are further processed and formed into sheets cut into strips and blended in with fresh cut tobacco. The amount of reconstituted tobacco used in a tobacco blend for a smoking article varies but is generally less than 20 . Usually these reconstituted tobacco sheets are absent of additional flavoring compounds as it has been found that the flavoring compounds such as menthol evaporate or dissipate rapidly from the sheet prior to blending with other tobacco and therefore provide little to no additional flavoring benefit to the tobacco blend.

Additionally there has been great concern for the reduction of the ignition propensity of smoking articles as there have been a substantial number of fires which have been attributed to burning cigarettes coming into contact with combustible or flammable materials. Therefore there is a considerable effort being expended in the industry to provide smoking articles which provide a low ignition propensity smoking article. Many of these proposals include a modification of the wrapper for the smoking article. Particularly coatings or additives have been made to wrappers for the smoking articles to reduce the porosity or to change the chemical properties of the wrapper.

In view of known deficiencies associated with earlier smoking articles a smoking article having reconstituted tobacco comprised of burley tobacco as well as a second tobacco such as flue cured oriental Maryland rare and exotic tobaccos and combinations thereof in the form of split inner wrap strips is provided. The rare and exotic tobaccos may include but are not limited to Izmar Sumsun Yaka Latakia Cavendish Rustica Fire cure and Dark or Sun cure. The split inner wrap strips constitute less than 9 of the total tobacco strip blend but deliver a better smoke flavor lower the ignition propensity and increase puff number.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a novel formulation for a bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet and the process for making same.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a reconstituted sheet made of rare and exotic tobaccos of limited supply to provide unique smoke flavors.

It is also an object of the present invention to provide a smoking article including a novel bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet in one layer of a wrapper for the smoking article.

It is an object of the present invention to provide a smoking article including a burley skewed reconstituted tobacco sheet that provides a better tobacco smoke characteristic but minimizes TSNA formation.

The present invention provides a bandcast tobacco sheet which may include from about 30 to about 80 by weight of tobacco blend from about 5 to about 40 weight of wood pulp from about 8 to about 40 by weight of binder and up to about 30 by weight of a flavoring compound such as menthol. The tobacco blend is comprised of at least about 30 burley by weight and up to about 30 by weight of a second tobacco. The binder may be alginate e.g. sodium alginate guar xanthum acacia pectin other gums modified cellulose compounds and hydrocolloid compounds. The bandcast tobacco sheet can also include from about 8 to about 30 by weight of humectants such as glycerin or propylene glycol.

The present invention also provides a process for making a bandcast tobacco sheet which includes as a first step of making a slurry including tobacco wood pulp binder and menthol. The prepared slurry is cast onto a movable band or screen and subsequently dried to form a sheet of reconstituted tobacco. The resulting tobacco sheet is cut into lengths of preselected widths for use in a smoking article. In one embodiment the strips are positioned longitudinally of the tobacco rod between the tobacco rod and an outer cigarette or smoking article wrapper.

In preparing the bandcast material the wood pulp and binder particularly an alginate such as sodium alginate are added for sheet strength and binding of the ingredients into the tobacco sheet. A humectant such as glycerin may also be added for sheet pliability in addition to any desired flavorants such as menthol as well as other fillers such as calcium carbonate. The proportion of the materials varies and is dependent upon end uses. However in a preferred sheet the amount of tobacco in the mixture is usually approximately the same as the binder such as sodium alginate but the tobacco may exceed the alginate by 10 to 20 by weight.

The present invention also provides for bandcast tobacco sheets having not only burley but a second tobacco such as flue cured oriental Maryland or rare and exotic tobaccos and combinations thereof and a method for preparing same. The rare and exotics include but are not limited to Izmar Samsun Yaka Latakia Perique Cavendish Rustica Fire cure and Dark or Sun cure.

Since burley tobacco for example is high in tobacco specific nitrosamines TSNAs burley inclusion levels for potentially reduced exposure products are limited to less than the normal 25 to 40 inclusion levels for US blended cigarettes. The use of less burley outside the norm results in poor balance tobacco smoke character. Smoke TSNAs formation or transfer is minimized via split inner wrap technology. Such technology involves the use of one or more strips of burley or burley skewed reconstituted tobacco sheets aligned longitudinally and adjacent each other on the periphery of a cigarette s tobacco column just inside the cigarette outer wrap paper.

Using burley bandcast reconstituted tobacco split inner wrap strips provides unique properties to cigarettes such as lowering ignition propensity improving smoke flavor and increasing cigarette puff count while minimizing TSNA levels. With respect to sensory improvement since combustion takes place preferentially towards the periphery or surface of the cigarette rod most of the smoke products formed should be transferred to the mainstream smoke. Since cigarette burn temperature are generally lower on the outside of the rod and hotter within the core the outer positioning of the split inner strip enables it to produce lesser chemical compounds than tobacco within the core therefore the split inner wrap contributes less to mainstream smoke Hoffman analyte HA deliveries. Hence the use of burley tobacco to make reconstituted tobacco split inner wrap strips to insert into cigarette rods improves burley s smoke character optimizes taste impact and minimizes mainstream Hoffman analyte deliveries.

The present invention further provides for a smoking article including burley reconstituted tobacco split inner wrap strips. The split inner wrap could be made via bandcast paper or extrusion reconstituted tobacco technology. Note also that the present invention provides for split inner wrap strips made not only with burley but also with flue cure oriental Maryland or combinations thereof with the optional addition of casings and flavorings. Also certain exotic and rare flavorful tobaccos not in enough supply to be in commercial use e.g. Izmar Samsun Yaka Latakia Perique Cavendish Rustica Fire cure and Dark or Sun cure can be used.

Additional objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description including examples of the preparation of the bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet of the present invention.

A cigarette with burn rate modification is shown in and may be described as a partial double wrap cigarette . The tobacco can be burley flue cured oriental Maryland rare and exotic tobaccos and combinations thereof As seen therein the partial double wrap cigarette of the present invention incorporates a standard column of tobacco which extends from an exposed end to the filter . Circumscribing the tobacco column is the outer wrap of the cigarette paper . Interior of the outer wrap cigarette paper is a separate partial inner wrap layer or strip and . The separate partial inner wrap layer and acts as a burn rate modifier for the tobacco column by altering the burn characteristics of the cigarette . As can be seen from the embodiment shown in the inner wrap layer strips may be co axial to the tobacco column and may extend substantially the length of the tobacco column from the exposed end to the filter . By insertion of the separate partial inner wrap layer and which in this embodiment extends co axial to the tobacco column modification may be made to the burn rate of the cigarette in such a manner that the burn rate may be adjusted depending upon the packing density of the tobacco porosity of the outer wrap paper and additives to the outer wrap width of the separate partial inner wrap layer and porosity of the inner wrap layers and and additives to the inner wrap strips. Alternatively the inner wrap layer may be shortened to not extend the full length of the tobacco column or may extend in varying directions. Thus many alterations to the burn rate of the partial double wrap cigarette of the present invention may be established based upon the combination of factors noted herein among others.

As depicted in the partial double wrap cigarette of the present invention which has a modified burn rate characteristic incorporates an outer wrap paper with a first and a second separate partial inner wrap strip and . The outer wrap cigarette paper may be a normal porosity paper which typically exhibits a porosity of 15 80 CORESTA units. In combination with the outer wrap cigarette paper is positioned at least one partial inner wrap layer which can modify the burn rate characteristics of the cigarette . As shown a first and a second partial inner wrap layer and are provided on opposite sides of the tobacco column . In order to provide substantially equivalent burn rate characteristics along the entirety of the tobacco column the partial inner wrap strips and may substantially extend and be co axial with the tobacco column to the filter .

As depicted in the embodiment of the partial inner wrap layers and extend from end to end of the tobacco column and may be positioned such that they are either equal distant from each other or may be placed in alternative positions based upon the desired burn rate characteristics.

Turning to it is apparent that the partial double wrap cigarette of the present invention has alternating high diffusion areas and low diffusion areas based upon the placement of the inner wrap layers or strips and . As can be seen the high diffusion areas of which there is at least one allow for increased permeation of CO and oxygen gases through the barrier formed by the outer wrap while maintaining normal deliveries. In combination low diffusion areas which are defined by the circumferential extent of each of the partial inner wrap layers and may potentially block a significant portion or all of the inflow and outflow of gases therethrough related directly to the porosity of the inner wrap layer and in combination with the outer wrap layer . The co linear zones of high diffusion area and low diffusion area may exhibit a porosity of greater than 14 CORESTA for the co linear high diffusion areas and less than 8 CORESTA for the co linear low diffusion areas.

As shown in the drawings the construction of the cigarette with burn rate modification is a partial double wrap cigarette depicted herein and utilizes a standard outer wrap cigarette paper which in a typical cigarette is 27 mm wide. Placed along the interior of the outer wrap as shown in and in in an alternative embodiment is located the separate partial inner wrap layer and which may substantially extend along the length of the outer wrap . While the outer wrap of the cigarette paper may be standard porosity and construction the partial inner wrap of this embodiment has a first and a second strip and each of which may be 4 mm in width and which may have a porosity of less than 8 CORESTA units. Therefore combined the two inner wrap layers or strips and may circumscribe about 8 mm of the circumference of the partial double wrap cigarette of the present invention but may extend around a circumference of up to 15 mm of the tobacco column in relation to a standard cigarette dimension. Any combination of the partial inner wrap and outer wrap may work depending on the variables noted such as porosity of each paper but it is felt that good burn rate characteristics as well as limited effects to smoke characteristics and flavor may be achieved by incorporating an inner wrap which covers less than about 75 or preferably less than about 60 and even more preferably less than about 35 of the circumference of the outer wrap. This is a function of the overall cigarette and may vary depending on the circumference of the outer wrap. However variations are available to achieve the same favorable results utilizing the inventive aspects of the present design and such descriptions are not felt to be limiting and are exemplary only. Furthermore even though two strips are shown it is realized that a plurality of strips may be used when appropriate.

Alternatively many different constructions may be utilized to provide the cigarette with burn rate modification as set forth herein. As may be understood a single inner wrap layer or a plurality of inner wrap layers may be provided based upon the desired characteristics and burn rate modification. Thus as previously mentioned combinations of low porosity inner wrap segments and higher porosity outer wrap segments may be utilized to provide various linear burn rates which may be desirable. Thus a typical linear burn rate of 6.0 mm per minute may be reduced as desired based upon a combination of porosity of outer wrap and partial inner wrap strips among other factors and may readily be reduced to below 4 mm minute if needed. This includes formulation of single inner wrap strips of lower porosity or replacement of the inner wrap strips with various construction material including reconstituted tobacco low porosity paper bandcast tobacco a polymer based material other paper or material. The inner wrap strips may be coated with burn modifiers or other materials which would create at least one low diffusion area along the tobacco column. The paper may be coated with as an example sodium alginate as a burn inhibitor in order to decrease the porosity of the paper and provide adequate characteristics such that the entire combination of outer wrap porosity tobacco packing density inner wrap circumference covered and number of strips inner wrap porosity and other factors cause the cigarette to exhibit a desired burn rate.

As shown in various embodiments may be utilized in order to create the low porosity zone. As depicted in the opened standard outer wrap is lined with a plurality of inner wrap or inner layer strips and . These strips may be placed equidistantly apart along the interior of the outer wrap and positioned away from the edges or seam where the outer wrap is adhered to itself during rolling within the garniture of the cigarette maker. As depicted the strips may all be fed into the garniture and incorporated on the interior of the outer wrap adjacent the tobacco column. Placement of the partial inner wrap strips modifies the burn rate to a desired level such that the rate may be decreased sufficiently to cause either a significantly reduced static burn rate or self extinguishment at a desired interval.

As shown in an inner layer with non linear sides as compared to the edges of the outer wrap may be utilized as the partial inner wrap in order to create the low porosity zone. As shown therein the inner wrap layer may have be in wave form so that the placement of the low porosity zone changes in position along the tobacco column axis. Such non linear placement of the low porosity zone may allow for different positioning of the cigarette during static burn and insure that the desired static burn rate takes effect regardless of the position of the cigarette.

Depicted in is another embodiment of the cigarette with burn rate modification of the present invention. As seen therein a high diffusion area and low diffusion area is defined by addition of a partial double wrap inner wrap layer which circumscribes a portion of the tobacco column on the interior of outer wrap . The partial inner wrap layer as depicted in the figure extends approximately half way around the perimeter of the tobacco column . However many different configurations may be utilized in order to achieve the appropriate linear burn rate through the burn rate modification set forth. The partial double wrap inner wrap layer may be comprised of standard cigarette paper which has a low porosity of less than 7 CORESTA units or cigarette paper coated with burn rate modifiers or may be alternative construction such as a bandcast tobacco sheet with or without additives and which typically has a low CORESTA unit value typically less than 5 and more preferably less than 3. A secondary benefit of utilizing bandcast or reconstituted tobacco sheets as the partial double wrap inner wrap layer is that the coloring of the inner wrap may be such that it is similar to the tobacco column and does not provide a contrastly whitened area which extends along the low diffusion area . Additionally a polymer film or other material may be used as the partial double wrap inner wrap layer . It may be preferable for the partial double wrap inner layer displayed in to be 2 14 mm in width or alternatively less than 75 of the circumference of the outer wrap in order to obtain the appropriate burn rate modification desired wherein the linear burn rate is sustained at a low enough level preferably below 4.0 mm per minute.

As depicted in an alternative embodiment is disclosed wherein a plurality of inner wrap strips are utilized substantially surrounding the tobacco column on the interior of the outer wrap . The plurality of inner wrap strips may be fed into the garniture adjacent the outer wrap and encircling the tobacco column as it is formed within the cigarette maker. The plurality of strips may be comprised of a low porosity cigarette paper individually fed into the cigarette maker or by a single or multiple strips fed into the cigarette maker adjacent to the garniture and cut to the appropriate strip widths. As depicted in a plurality of inner wrap strips are utilized and extend co axially substantially along the length of the tobacco column . Preferably the plurality of strips extend along the entire tobacco column length such as to modify the burn rate along the entire tobacco column regardless of cigarette positioning. It is felt that by providing a plurality of strips as depicted in a more even modification of the burn rate of the cigarette may be produced.

As may be appreciated extending the inner wrap layer substantially along the length of the tobacco column such that they are co axial provides a significant benefit over alternating rings which are perpendicular to the axis of the tobacco column . Such perpendicular rings which alternate along the length of the tobacco column may provide a non linear burn rate of the tobacco column . Thus in such a design where there are circumscribing rings around the tobacco column the linear burn rate becomes variable between a low linear burn rate to a high linear burn rate depending upon the porosity of the paper at the point of the rings as opposed to the porosity of the non adjusted paper between the rings. Such non linear burn rate may in fact be undesirable in that continued free burning of the tobacco column between the rings for significant periods of time does not produce an appropriate burn rate modification which can be depended upon through the entire tobacco column length. Further at points where the low porosity rings are present a smoker may puff on the cigarette as the burning of the tobacco column passes over a low porosity ring. At such a point it is thought that the deliveries of the cigarette may be altered significantly to increase the CO and other compounds provided as the cigarette burns over one of these rings. Thus the partial double wrap inner layer of the present invention overcomes these problems by providing known standard deliveries over the entire length of the tobacco column while also modifying the burn rate along the entire co axial length.

In the design of the cigarette with the burn rate modification of the present invention it may be desirable to incorporate the inner wrap layers whether a plurality of strips or a single layer away from the seam of the outer wrap . As is known in cigarette manufacturing the seam depicted in is formed by the maker by over wrapping the side edges of the outer wrap . In typical cigarette manufacturing an adhesive is applied along one of the edges prior to folding of the outer wrap and formation of the tobacco column . During manufacturing of the cigarette with burn rate modification of the present invention it is desirable to maintain the partial inner wrap layer away from the seam portion to assure that the outer wrap is properly formed and the partial inner wrap layer does not intercede in the formation of the tobacco column or adhesive of the outer wrap layer. Thus as depicted in the embodiments the partial inner wrap layers are shown to be placed away from the side edges so that the inner wrap portions will not interfere with the seam of the outer wrap nor interfere with the formation of the tobacco column within the garniture in a typical cigarette manufacturing machine. Thus the cigarette with burn rate modification of the present invention may be implemented on standard cigarette making machines with only minor modifications made to the paper feeding devices and no modifications therefore will necessarily be required within the garniture. It is also apparent that in any of the embodiments shown herein the strips may be alternatively placed on the exterior of the cigarette and retained on the wrapper by adhesives or other means so that there are still formed co linear zones of high and low porosity.

As shown in a sample design for manufacturing a cigarette with burn rate modification described herein is depicted. The paper feeding assembly is comprised of two paper sources the outer wrap bobbin and the inner wrap or inner strip bobbin . The outer wrap bobbin may be comprised of standard porosity outer wrap cigarette paper having a standard width which may vary between 19 27 mm as may be normally the case and may be fed to the cigarette making machine through a plurality of rollers and tensioning guides. In the embodiment shown the partial inner wrap and outer wrap layer may be combined to form a combined cigarette paper wherein the outer wrap and inner wrap layer receive the tobacco within the garniture. The outer wrap layer may underlie the partial inner wrap strips which are fed from the inner wrap strip bobbin or other source. The inner wrap strip bobbin may be narrower than the outer wrap as it is intended to cover only a portion of the inner surface of the outer wrap . The inner wrap strip bobbin may be unrolled and fed through rollers and cut by a knife into the desired strips prior to forming the combined cigarette paper just preceding the garniture. The strips which form the inner wrap portion of the cigarette of the present invention may have significantly different burn rate characteristics than the outer wrap . Thus variations in the porosity content and other characteristics may be provided by supplying dual bobbins at the machine in the present embodiment . The slitter may be provided to slit the inner wrap paper into two or more strips.

As shown in the inner wrap strip bobbin may have a paper with a width of 4 15 mm which is slit in two strips. The correct combination of porosity and burn characteristics of the inner wrap and outer wrap layer may be adjusted so as to produce an appropriate burn rate modification which is desirable to produce a standard linear burn rate throughout the entirety of the cigarette and tobacco column.

As shown in the paper feeding assembly disclosed incorporates a number of tensioning rollers for providing adequate feeding of the outer wrap and the partial inner wrap strips to produce the combined cigarette wrapping paper . As may be appreciated the smaller width bobbin creates significantly more problems in feeding the slit paper to the garniture. Adequate tensioning of the strips must be provided in order to prevent tearing of the inner wrap strips prior to the garniture. Additionally as cigarette manufacturing process is inherently a stop and go procedure the proper tensioning of the outer wrap bobbin and inner wrap strip bobbin is necessary. Thus the partial inner wrap strips may be combined with the outer wrap paper just prior to the garniture or may be combined as depicted in immediately after slitting in order to provide proper tensioning and combination of the two layers.

Turning to a cross section of the garniture within the cigarette maker is shown. The garniture is the area within the cigarette maker wherein the cigarette is rolled and formed. There is usually a belt which lies between the outer wrap and the garniture but which is not shown herein for explanation purposes. As depicted the garniture has a curvature for formation of the tobacco column and cigarette. The curvature folds the outer wrap around the tobacco after the tobacco is deposited by the tobacco provider within the cigarette maker. Prior to entry within the garniture the inner wrap strips are mated with the outer wrap so that the combined cigarette wrapper is folded and formed with the tobacco while the cigarette wrapper formation is already in place. Such a design allows for the flexibility of combining various characteristics of the outer wrap layer and the partial inner wrap layer. Another benefit of the inline formation and processing of the cigarette with burn rate modification of the present invention is that it is an online method which does not affect the speed or formation of the actual cigarette. Thus within the garniture there is no significant modification required to form the cigarette rod which is cut into proper length and then added to filters at a later station within the cigarette maker.

As shown in the inner wrap strips are fed into the garniture on the interior surface of the outer wrap such that they are in proper placement when the cigarette maker forms the cigarette and tobacco column. In the present example as shown in the inner wrap strips are positioned at 90 from the seam of the outer wrap and may be placed equidistant from each other in order to provide a smooth and continuous burn rate modification for the cigarette. The inner wrap material may be placed on the interior side of the outer wrap without adhesive as preferred but other position maintaining material may be used. Formation of the cigarette within the garniture and compacting of the tobacco into the tobacco rod maintains the placement of the inner wrap strips .

Turning to an alternative embodiment for the paper feeding assembly is shown. In this embodiment the outer wrap is fed from a standard position to bullet roller which directs the cigarette wrappers to the garniture for formation of the cigarette. In this instance the outer wrap may be standard 27 mm wide cigarette paper and have normal porosity as well as other typical additives. As is depicted the combined partial double wrap which may be combined prior to the garniture is formed from the combination of the outer wrap and the dual line inner wrap strips . As can be seen the inner wrap strip paper from the bobbin is fed to the guide rollers prior to cutting or slitting by rotary cutter . The rotary cutter may be comprised of a rotary knife and knife block . In such a formation it is desirable to have a 8 mm wide combined portion of the interior of the cigarette covered with the partial double inner wrap an inner wrap may be provided which is slit in half forming equal 4 mm wide strips . These strips may be formed by rotary cutter and separated by separation rollers before the partial inner wrap strip are combined with the outer wrap paper at the roller . The inner wrap of course may be slit into even narrower strips for overlaying onto the outer wrap.

A benefit of such a design is that a rotary cutter may be provided for slitting the paper into the desired widths. Problematic in handling narrow strips thereby necessitating the guide and tensioning rollers is that after the narrower strips are formed care must be provided to prevent tearing of the inner wrap paper and individual strips . Thus it may be beneficial to provide a rotary cutter at a point which is fairly close or adjacent to the garniture in order to prevent significant handling of the narrow inner wrap strips .

In the paper feeding assembly shown in a rotary cutter is shown to form the strips from the original web of material . A number of different cutting devices or slitters may be used in all of these embodiments such as a static knife laser rotary knife as depicted water jet cutter kiss cutting or micro perforation formation. Additionally pre formed webs of material may be provided which are pre cut into individual strips which may then be separated prior to feeding into the garniture through various handling devices. A number of differing embodiments may be utilized in order to feed the appropriate inner wrap strips into the garniture in combination with the outer wrap. While the various embodiments disclosed herein teach specific structure to accomplish the feeding of the inner wrap strips to the garniture a number of embodiments may be provided for formation or supplying of the inner wrap strips to the garniture in combination with the outer wrap. Such variations are felt to fall within the teachings of the present application and no unnecessary limitation is to be interpreted from the specific examples of the paper feeding assembly setforth herein.

As disclosed in an additional embodiment is provided wherein a cigarette maker may have external bobbin units . External bobbin unit may have bobbin which supplies the outer wrap paper to be fed into the garniture . The bobbin provides a web of material which is fed into the garniture and combined with a web of material which forms the inner wrap strips. External bobbin unit may have a bobbin of material which is fed to a knife mechanism for slitting. The slitter or cutting mechanism is positioned directly adjacent to the garniture in order to decrease the length of handling of the individual narrow inner wrap strips. As shown the maker has garniture and garniture belt driven by drive shaft which feeds the paper and tobacco material through the garniture during the cigarette formation process such that the tobacco rod and cigarette is formed with the inner wrap strips formed therein.

As may be appreciated provision for an external bobbin unit for both the outer wrap and inner wrap material allows for easier online processing of the paper and ready integration into the cigarette maker of the partial inner wrap strips. Additionally external placement of the outer wrap bobbin and inner wrap bobbin requires minimal changing of the structure for the cigarette maker as the bobbins may be spaced away from the maker and no significant changes are required at the area around the garniture apart from the guide and tensioning rollers. Additionally external bobbin units are currently implemented with cigarette makers and may be provided for in order to combine the outer and partial inner wrap strips of the present invention in order to create the appropriate burn rate modification desired.

In use the external unit may be fitted with a spool of bandcast material instead of a standard bobbin of cigarette wrapper. A spool may be utilized due to the non uniformity of the material in bandcast. A spool having bandcast recon may be used wherein the material is 8 mm in width and is fed into the maker through guide rollers in order to minimize movement of the bandcast material as the spool is unwound. The material may be slit immediately prior to joining with the outer wrap material at the bullet roller which is the roller typically found at the first or beginning part of the garniture. A plurality of guide rollers and tensioning rollers may be provided to properly feed the material to the garniture and combine it with the outer wrap material.

The cigarette with burn rate modification of the present invention may be designed with variations in outer wrap and inner wrap paper characteristics. As previously explained standard outer wrap designs are such that the typical outer wrap has a linear laid out width of 27 mm and generally a porosity of between 15 and 80 CORESTA units. As is generally understood significantly decreasing the outer wrap porosity changes the deliveries and linear burn rate of the cigarette. Modification of the standard burn rate for a normal or typical cigarette may be obtained through addition of a partial inner wrap to the cigarette. The partial inner wrap may be a single inner wrap portion or may be a plurality of inner wrap strips as shown in the various figures. The partial inner wrap may have paper characteristics with a significantly reduced porosity such that the inner wrap paper exhibits a porosity of less than 8 CORESTA units. If a single inner wrap strip is utilized such as with band cast or other paper as previously described and depicted in the inner wrap layer may have a width of between 2 15 mm. The porosity of the inner wrap layer may be adjusted from any where to 0 to 8 CORESTA units.

Several product examples were made using the construction of a partial strip wrap or partial inner wrap cigarette using the inventive techniques and construction described herein. In the examples a control cigarette was used having no partial inner wrap strips which exhibited a linear burn rate of between 4.3 4.7 mm min. Different materials where utilized as detailed in the chart below for the partial inner wrap strips ranging from standard treated paper to band cast tobacco material.

Examples of cigarettes with two band cast inner wrap strips having a porosity of band cast material less than 5 CORESTA units 

Examples of cigarettes with two cigarette paper strips treated or covered with sodium alginate having a porosity of inner strip paper less than 5 CORESTA units 

The separate partial inner wrap strips may be strips of bandcast reconstituted tobacco made in accordance with the specific formula and process for making same as discussed hereinafter. The outer wrap cigarette paper may be a normal porosity paper which typically exhibits a porosity of 15 80 CORESTA units. As shown two strips of a reconstituted tobacco sheet are provided on opposite sides of the tobacco column to provide a partial inner wrap layer. The partial inner wrap layer including the reconstituted tobacco strips may extend substantially the length of and be co axial with the tobacco column . In one embodiment the strips are placed equidistant from each other such that the resulting cigarette burns evenly.

In the preparation of a bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet for use in a cigarette wood pulp and a binder such as sodium alginate and ground tobacco particles or concentrated extract are slowly added to a tank containing water therein the materials added while mixing under high shear insuring that each component is thoroughly dissolved or dispersed in the slurry. Particularly it is desirable to add in order wood pulp tobacco and then alginate. Glycerin may also be added for sheet pliability and is generally added after the alginate and before any additional flavorant. Moreover in a preferred slurry a desired flavoring may also be added one particularly desired flavoring being menthol. Inert fillers such as calcium carbonate and the like may also be added to the slurry. It has been found that the ratio of tobacco to alginate is preferably about 4.0 to 1.0 in order to obtain sheets with adequate tensile strength to withstand cigarette making machine forces. The resulting slurry is spread thinly on a casting surface such as a stainless steel band that is heated to approximately 200 F. The slurry spread remains on the heated belt until the resulting sheet is dry enough to be removed intact from the belt. The resulting bandcast sheet may be used immediately or conditioned at 100 F. in low humidity for 24 hours or more to further seal in any flavoring additives such as menthol. The sheet may then be shredded and added to a tobacco blend or cut into elongated strips of a desired width and used as longitudinally extending strips along the outer periphery of a tobacco rod and the inner surface of an outer paper wrap. Smoking articles using these inner strips of reconstituted tobacco including menthol therein maintain their menthol flavor in open packs for significant periods of time up to 1 month. In sealed packs they maintain their menthol flavor for at least 4 months.

In an embodiment the tobacco blend is from 30 to 80 by weight the wood pulp is from about 5 to 40 by weight the binder is from 8 to 40 by weight and if a flavoring is added such as menthol the flavoring will be up to 30 by weight. Preferably the tobacco will be approximately 26 by weight the wood pulp will be approximately 13.5 by weight the binder will be approximately 27 by weight and menthol will be approximately 20 by weight. The total mix i.e. the solid mixture will be from about 2 to about 10 by weight in the slurry formulation. The binder can be alginate e.g. sodium alginate guar xanthum acacia pectin other gums modified cellulose compounds and hydrocolloid compounds. A humectant can be added which can be glycerin or propylene glycol. The tobacco blend may be comprised of at least about 30 by weight of burley and up to about 30 by weight of a second tobacco. The second tobacco type may be flue cured oriental Maryland exotic types and combinations thereof. The exotic tobaccos include but are not limited to Izmar Samsun Yaka Latakia Perique Cavendish Rustica Fire cure and Dark or Sun cure.

A more comprehensive understanding of the invention can be obtained by considering the following examples. However it should be understood that the examples are not intended to be unduly limitative of the invention.

The following examples demonstrate the procedure that was followed in preparing a bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet for use in a smoking article.

In the process of making the bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet 130 gallons of water is put into a first vessel having a high shear agitator therein. While the water is being agitated 35 pounds of wood pulp is added and thoroughly dispersed 70 pounds of tobacco is added and thoroughly dispersed 70 pounds of sodium alginate is added and thoroughly dispersed 35 pounds of glycerin is added and thoroughly dispersed. In a separate tank 52.5 pounds of menthol is added to 15 gallons of water at 40 C. the mixture is agitated until the menthol is melted. The resulting mixture is added to the alginate slurry and thoroughly dispersed. More water is added to keep the viscosity between 10 000 to 20 000 centipoise preferably 15 000 centipoise to ensure proper casting.

The slurry is then cast onto a stainless steel band which is maintained at approximately 200 F. at a thickness of about 40 60 mils. The sheet remains on the stainless steel belt until dry which is approximately 6 8 minutes. The resulting mentholated bandcast sheet is maintained in sheet form until cut into strips for use in a cigarette article.

Cigarette articles having elongate strips of the bandcast reconstituted sheet disposed between the paper wrapper and the outer surface of the tobacco rod have been found to retain their menthol flavor for 1 month in open packs. In sealed packs the cigarette articles retain their menthol flavor for at least 4 months and maybe up to a year.

It is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific examples shown as the parameters set forth in the examples may be varied by appropriate changes of the amounts of the constituents within the reconstituted bandcast tobacco sheet mix used in the examples.

Generally the preparation of burley bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet and split inner wrap strips follows the preparation of bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet and split inner wrap strips as previously described with minor modifications. Note that present in the tobacco blend are burley and a second tobacco type. A first tobacco preferably burley is at least about 30 by weight of the tobacco blend and a second tobacco such as flue cured oriental Maryland rare and exotic tobaccos and combinations thereof is up to about 30 by weight of the tobacco blend. Exotic tobaccos include but are not limited to Izmar Samsun Yaka Latakia Perique Cavendish Rustica Fire cure and Dark or Sun cure.

In making a paper reconstituted tobacco sheet tobacco fines dust veins stems scraps cut lamina shredded stems or combinations thereof are mixed with an aqueous solvent. This starting material would be comprised of between about 30 and 100 by weight of burley tobacco. One part tobacco is added to 11 20 parts of the aqueous solvent and extracted at 160 F. 70 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture is separated via centrifugation filtration or pressing into a water soluble extract and a solid fibrous non water soluble component.

The extract is concentrated by vacuum evaporation or freeze dried and a humectant such as glycerin is added and mixed thoroughly. The extract may optionally be treated with adsorbents to selectively remove undesirable components such as TSNAs polyphenols and proteins and subsequently centrifuged. The adsorbents are discarded and the remaining extract is concentrated and mixed with a humectant. An alginate binder may then be added to the extract.

The solid fibrous component is refined and mixed with over 10 wood fibers that have been refined to a pulp in an earlier process. The fiber pulp mixture is then used to make sheets via the paper process. The extract prepared as previously described is reapplied to the sheet. The sheet is slit and wound onto a bobbin thereby forming burley paper reconstituted tobacco split inner wrap strips.

Another sheet making option of the invention can be obtained by considering the following example. However it should be understood that the examples are not intended to be unduly limitative of the invention. The following example demonstrates the procedure that was followed in preparing a burley bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet for use in a smoking article

Bandcast reconstituted tobacco was produced by mixing one part tobacco and other solids to 10 11 parts of water as shown in the recipe table 

Another burley bandcast reconstituted tobacco sheet for split inner wraps was similarly made as described in Example 2 except that the water tobacco wood pulp slurry was cooked with 1.75 dry weight basis tobacco equivalent of caustic KOH for 30 to 45 minutes at 70 C. to 90 C. Tobacco cooking with caustic results in the release of pectin a natural binder. Pectin increases sheet tensile strength and reduces the amount of binder used in the formulation.

LTS refers to lights and KS refers to king size. The cigarettes were aged in packs in cartons for three weeks at 70 F. and 65 relative humidity and submitted for sensory and routine testing.

The following table shows a smoke panel rating of 34 to 37 panelists for the commercial LTS KS strip blend control with no insert 1 versus the LTS with burley paper 2 burley bandcast 3 cooked burley bandcast 4 Exotic I blend 5 Exotic II blend 6 and Exotic III blend 7 reconstituted tobacco inserts as described in the recipe table and referenced above 

The separate partial inner wrap strips may be strips of bandcast paper or extruded reconstituted tobacco made in accordance with the specific formula and process for making same previously discussed. The outer wrap cigarette paper may be a normal porosity paper which typically exhibits a porosity of 15 80 CORESTA units. As shown two strips of a reconstituted tobacco sheet are provided on opposite sides of the tobacco column to provide a partial inner wrap layer. The partial inner wrap layer including the burley reconstituted tobacco strips may extend substantially the length of and be co axial with the tobacco column . In one embodiment the strips are placed equidistant from each other such that the resulting cigarette burns evenly.

The foregoing detailed description is given primarily for clearness of understanding and no unnecessary limitations are to be understood therefrom for modifications will become obvious to those skilled in the art upon reading this disclosure and may be made without departing from the spirit of the invention and scope of the appended claims.

