---

title: Method and apparatus for automatically embedding and emailing user-generated highlights
abstract: A method and system for enabling, via conventional web browser controls, a user to generate and send an internet document including user-generated highlights are disclosed. The user-generated highlights included in the internet document embedded in the email are highlights that were previously made via a highlighting service. Accordingly, the recipient of the internet document receives a copy of an internet document including highlights, and need not install any special software to view the highlighted portions of the internet document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08352573&OS=08352573&RS=08352573
owner: 
number: 08352573
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070622
---
The present application claims the benefit of the filing date of the U.S. Provisional Patent Application with Ser. No. 60 815 467 filed on Jun. 22 2006 the contents of which are incorporated herewith.

The present invention relates generally to computer network based information retrieval and sharing techniques. More particularly the present invention relates to methods and systems that enable one to quickly and easily share a user highlighted portion of a document with another person.

A wealth of information is available on the Internet and particularly that segment of the Internet referred to generally as the World Wide Web. However despite vast improvements in search engines finding the particular information that one is interested in can still be a challenging and time consuming task. Perhaps even more frustrating is the lack of tools available to enable a user to retrieve previously searched for and discovered information. In the realm of search and retrieval search engines aid in the search but leave much to be desired when it comes to information retrieval.

One common mechanism used for information retrieval is referred to generally as a bookmark. A bookmark is a mechanism or function enabling a user to save a copy of a uniform resource locator URL . For example if a user finds an article of interest at a URL for an interesting article the user can save the URL as a bookmark so that at a later time the user can simply select e.g. with a mouse or other pointing device the bookmark to reload the document associated with the URL. The user might choose to categorize the bookmarks. Traditionally bookmarks have been facilitated by a web browser application and stored at the computer on which the web browser application resides. However more recently online bookmarking services have provided users with a way to store bookmarks online making the bookmarks accessible from any network connected computer.

As a means of information retrieval bookmarks have several shortcomings. One problem with bookmarks is they provide little if any explanation or context as to what it is about the associated document that may be significant. For instance a bookmark simply associates a URL with a document. A user may generate a bookmark for a particular web page because of a single passage in an article or a particular blog entry on a web page with many blog entries. When the user retrieves the web page at a later time by means of selecting the bookmark the user may not be able to remember what it is that is significant about the web page and why he or she saved the bookmark in the beginning.

Another problem with bookmarks is that they become stale and in some cases expire over time. For instance an internet document may change between the time that a user generates a bookmark and then revisits the associated web page at a later time. In some cases a URL may expire altogether. For example the document associated with the URL may be removed from the server such that the URL returns an error message indicating the document no longer exists.

Another problem with bookmarks is they are a less than ideal mechanism for sharing information. For example to share information with a bookmark facilitated by a web browser application a user must generally email the bookmark to another user. When the recipient receives the email including the bookmark the user must select the link if the bookmark is implemented as a user selectable link in order to initiate loading of the associated document in the user s web browser application. Often the bookmark is not a user selectable link. In this case the user must copy and paste or type the corresponding URL of the bookmark into the address bar of the web browser application. The copy and paste method sometimes does not work because of special characters such as carriage return and line feed characters in the URL. In any case the additional steps required to access the relevant document are often viewed as burdensome. Often it is only a subset of individuals who end up going through the process necessary to load the relevant document. When the relevant document is finally loaded into and displayed by the recipient s web browser the recipient of the bookmark may not appreciate the relevance of the associated document.

Realizing that many email recipients will not follow embedded links some senders have devised a strategy wherein they copy paste the relevant portions of an internet document into the body of an email. However this simply shifts the copy paste workload from the recipient to the sender. Furthermore on the receiving end the context in lost and credibility is in doubt as to the authenticity of the pasted material with respect to the original content. Thus improved tools for information retrieval and collaboration are needed.

A method and system for enabling via conventional web browser controls a user to generate and send an internet document including user generated highlights are disclosed. The user generated highlights included in the internet document which is in turn embedded in the email are highlights that were previously made via a highlighting service. The particular highlights that are included in the document that embedded in the email are those highlights that satisfy filtering criteria that is established with a highlight filtering mechanism. Accordingly the recipient of the internet document receives a copy of an internet document including highlights and need not install any special software to view the highlighted portions of the internet document.

Other aspects of the invention are described below in connection with the description of the figures.

Reference will now be made in detail to an implementation consistent with the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or like parts. Although discussed with reference to these illustrations the present invention is not limited to the implementations illustrated therein. Hence the reader should regard these illustrations merely as examples of embodiments of the present invention the full scope of which is measured only in terms of the claims following this description. In particular many of the various aspects and features of the invention are most easily understood by those skilled in the art when conveyed as user interface features. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the user interface elements illustrated and described are examples and the invention is not to be limited by those user interface features specifically illustrated in the drawings.

Consistent with one embodiment of the invention a highlighting service is provided by a highlighting server which enables a user to manipulate the user interface of a web browser application executing at the user s client device to selectively highlight the text of an internet document received from a content provider s server. In so doing any portions of text highlighted by the user are captured by the highlighter server. For example the portion of text highlighted by the user is communicated to the highlighter server where it is stored. Accordingly the highlighter server enables a user to easily retrieve the highlighted text at a later time. In addition the highlighter server enables a user to annotate and share the highlighted text along with the internet document with other users.

The highlighter server enables a user to selectively highlight text via a conventional web browser interface for example by controlling a customizable cursor with a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball joystick . The manner in which the user manipulates the user interface to selectively highlight text is similar to the way in which a user would highlight text in any number of conventional text editing applications. For example the user may simply press and hold a button of a pointing device while manipulating a cursor with the pointing device to select a particular portion of text. However in accordance with an embodiment of the invention and in contrast to conventional text editing applications the highlighter server enables a user to highlight the text and graphics of internet documents served from a content provider server with the conventional controls and features of a web browsing application without installing any special software. Moreover any highlights made by the user are communicated in near real time to the highlighter server without any need for any additional user interaction. Consequently any highlights the user makes are automatically saved at the highlighter server and can easily be viewed during a subsequent web browsing session. In an alternative embodiment of the invention the highlights could be saved on a local device.

In addition to enabling a user to easily retrieve highlighted portions of internet documents the highlighter server facilitates various methods of sharing highlighted portions of text with other users. For instance in one embodiment after a first user has made a highlight to a particular internet document a subsequent user viewing the same document with the highlighting service invoked will optionally be able to see the first user s highlight s . Similarly if multiple users previously made highlights to a particular document a subsequent user will be able to see all user s highlights. To avoid becoming overwhelmed with highlights a user and or the system can configure the settings of the highlighting service such that only highlights made by user selected persons including oneself or those persons who are a member of a user selected and or system selected group are displayed. In yet another aspect a user may generate and send an email to another user such that the email includes the highlighted portions of text and or the entire document as highlighted.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that various architectures may be used to implement a highlighting service consistent with the invention described herein. Furthermore although many functions described herein are attributed to either a client or a server those skilled in the art will appreciate that in alternative embodiments of the invention a function attributed herein to a server may in fact be implemented on or provided by a client device. Similarly a function described herein as being provided by a client may be provided by a server in an alternative embodiment of the invention. Other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the descriptions of the drawings that follow.

Although the present invention is described herein primarily in the context of a highlighting service those skilled in the art will recognize a wide variety of other applications that are consistent with the general spirit of the invention. For instance consistent with another embodiment of the invention a client web browser directs a request for a document either directly or indirectly to a content provider hosting the document. The request may be directed to an intermediate server or intercepted by an intermediate server which in turn forwards the document request on to the content provider server. The content provider server sends the requested internet document to the intermediate server where it is modified in some manner on the fly . That is the requested internet document is modified by the intermediate server in near real time before it is forwarded on to the requesting client web browser. Accordingly the requesting client web browser receives a modified copy of the requested document without making any actual modification to the document stored on the content provider server. In an alternative embodiment of the invention the requested document is communicated from the intermediate server to the client web browser in its original unmodified form along with a code module. At the client web browser the code module is executed or interpreted causing the client to modify the original document in some manner.

The modification to the document made by the intermediate server in near real time or the client may include overlaying an object on the document changing a portion of the document altering the references in a document adding an additional element or component to the internet document or alternatively removing or deleting a portion or element of the originally requested document. For example in one embodiment of the invention a portion of the document may be highlighted. In another embodiment of the invention an advertisement may be added or deleted from the originally requested document. In yet another embodiment of the invention a textual portion of the document may be italicized underlined made bold or have its color changed. In any case the document is being modified by the intermediate server.

In general the user utilizes a web browser application on client computer to access and display content in the form of internet documents or web pages which are stored in whole or in part on various content providers e.g. and . In one embodiment of the invention a user invokes the highlighter service by prepending the address or uniform resource locator URL of the highlighter server prior to the URL of an internet document that the user is requesting. In one embodiment of the invention a bookmarklet which is a button with associated code that typically resides on a web browser toolbar automatically prepends the address of the highlighting server to the address of a document thereby invoking the highlighting service.

Consistent with an embodiment of the invention once a highlighter session has been invoked a user has at his or her disposal a variety of tools for highlighting text and objects of an internet document. For instance in one embodiment of the invention a highlighter tool panel will appear in the web browser window and provide the user with a selection of controls enabling various features and functions of the highlighting service. In another embodiment of the invention various controls may be provided by a highlighter toolbar. In any case the basic function of the highlighting service is to enable a user to highlight an object e.g. text graphical images etc. of an internet document such that the highlighted portion s can easily be recalled at a later time and or shared with other users. Accordingly as the user highlights an object the highlighted object is communicated to the highlighter server where it is stored. In one embodiment of the invention the highlighted object e.g. a selection of text is stored along with any annotations or comments the user may have added as well as a date and time indicating when the highlight was generated. The highlighted object and its associated data are stored in such a manner as to be associated with the user who generated the highlight. This allows the user to recall and view highlights from previous highlighting sessions. Furthermore as each highlight is associated with a source e.g. a person responsible for generating the highlight users can configure the highlighting service to display highlights on a per user basis. That is a user may configure the settings of the highlighting service to display only the highlights of a particular user or group of users. For instance as described in greater detail below users may create and subscribe to groups. Accordingly a user may configure the highlighting service to display highlights on a per group basis such that only highlights from those members of a particular group are displayed. Similarly an embodiment of the invention may enable a user to build out a social network for example by specifying who the user considers to be direct contacts. Accordingly the user may configure the highlighting service to display highlights of all users within the user s social network up to a certain degree of separation e.g. a friend of a friend .

The highlighting service enables the user to generate highlights with conventional web browser controls. For example in one embodiment of the invention the user generates a highlight by simply pressing a button of a cursor control device e.g. mouse and dragging the cursor across an object before letting up on the button. The highlights generated by a user according to an embodiment of the invention are persistent over user initiated cursor activity as well as web browsing sessions. That is after making a highlight each user generated highlight remains even after the user clicks on a different portion of the internet document. Similarly a user can navigate away from an internet document or web page on which the user has made a highlight and the next time the user revisits the web page the highlight will be visible so long as the user has invoked a highlighting session via the highlighting service.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighting service is enabled without requiring the user to download and install a client side software application. That is the highlighting service is enabled via the standard functions of the web browser application on the client side. For instance in one embodiment of the invention asynchronous JavaScript and extensible markup language XML referred to as Ajax are used to provide an interactive user experience via a conventional web browser application without the need for downloading and installing any customized software. Alternatively the highlighting service may be enabled by a browser plug in or browser extension. For instance a user may download and install a software application that when executed works in conjunction with a web browser application to enhance the functionality of the web browser application in this case enabling the highlighting service. In yet another embodiment the highlighting service may be enabled by a stand alone software application. That is the client side functionality of the highlighting service may be attributed to a daemon or some other stand alone software application.

Once the highlighter server receives the initial request the highlighter server analyzes the initial request and extracts the address of the requested document. For example the address extraction logic shown in extracts the address of the requested internet document e.g. www.news.com article123.htm from the request received by the highlighter server e.g. highlighter server web address document server address document file location . Accordingly at step the forwarding logic shown in of the highlighter server forwards the document request to the content provider that is hosting the requested document. At step the content provider responds by communicating the original requested document to the highlighter server .

Once the highlighter server receives the original document from the content provider the highlighter server analyzes the original document and modifies various object references within the original document. For instance in one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server includes reference modification logic for modifying various references by prepending the highlighter server address to the existing addresses in the reference. Consequently when an object is requested the web browser application will direct a request to the highlighter server for those objects with modified references. Finally at step the modified document is communicated from the highlighter server to the client computer .

As illustrated in when the client computer receives the modified document it attempts to request the various objects that are referenced in the document. Accordingly at step for those objects stored directly at the content provider the client computer sends object requests to the content provider . Requests sent directly to the content provider are serviced by the content provider and at step one or more objects are returned to the client computer . For those objects which have had their reference previously modified e.g. by prepending the address of the highlighter server the client computer directs one or more object requests to the highlighting service e.g. at step . In turn at step the highlighting server communicates a request for the object to the content provider . The content provider communicates the object to the highlighting server at step and finally at step the object is communicated to the client computer which displays the internet document in a web browser window.

Referring again to if a user requests a document that has previously been highlighted e.g. by the requesting user or another user the highlighter server will modify the original document by inserting the necessary object reference to ensure that the highlight s are displayed when the document is rendered by the user s web browser application. For instance the reference modification logic of the highlighter server will modify the object reference in the original document such that the modified object reference will cause the particular object e.g. selection of text to be highlighted when displayed by the web browser application. In another embodiment of the invention a portion of executable or interpretable code sent from the highlighter server to the client enables the client to query the highlighter server . Accordingly the query is processed by the highlighting service and if a particular document has been previously highlighted the necessary data is sent to the client s web browser application to show the highlights. In one embodiment of the invention the query indicates the URL of the currently displayed document. The highlighting service determines whether the URL is associated with any previously generated user highlights. If so the highlighting service determines if the current user e.g. the user viewing the document has configured the highlight filtering mechanisms to display any of the previously generated user highlights. If the user has optionally selected to view highlights from one or more users who have previously generated a highlight on the currently displayed page then the highlighting service will communicate the appropriate information to the client so that the highlight will be displayed.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server includes address extraction and forwarding logic as well as reference modification logic . As described above when the highlighter server receives a request for a document hosted by another content provider the address extraction and forwarding logic extracts the document address of the requested document from the initial request received at the highlighter server and then forwards the extracted document address to the proper content provider . Similarly the reference modification logic modifies object references in original documents received from content provider servers prior to sending the object references in the modified document to the client computer. Object references are modified for example to ensure that certain object requests are directed to the highlighter server and other requests are directed directly to the content provider.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server includes page caching logic . Accordingly when a client requests a document hosted at a content provider the highlighter server may check its cache to determine if the highlighter server has a current copy of the document stored locally. If so the highlighter server does not need to forward the request to the content provider but instead the highlighter server can retrieve and serve the document from its cache.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server includes user account registration logic . As described in greater detail below in one embodiment of the invention a user can access and use the highlighting service in one of two mode as a registered user or as an unregistered user. As an unregistered user the user is not prompted to enter or provide any personal information or set up a username and or password. The highlighting service allows unregistered users to save and share highlights. However if an unregistered user would like to become a registered user the user account registration logic facilitates the generation of a user account while preserving all previously generated highlights. That is the highlight service will merge an unregistered user s data into a registered account thereby preserving any configuration settings and highlights the user made as an unregistered user.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server includes page saving logic and unique URL generating logic . In certain situations a user may desire to save a copy of an internet document. For instance many internet documents such as web pages on news sites and blogs are dynamic and constantly changing. Accordingly a user may want to highlight a portion of an internet document and then save a copy of the entire page for example to share with another user or group of users. The page saving logic enables a user to save a copy of an entire page. The unique URL generating logic generates a unique URL to associate with the saved page. Therefore to share an internet document that has been saved by the highlighting service a user can share the unique URL generated by the unique URL generating logic and associated with the saved page.

When a highlight is made on a page that tends to be dynamic e.g. changes frequently for example such as a blog site or a news site highlight insertion logic analyzes the content of the page to determine if and where a previously made highlight is to be inserted. For example as new blog entries are posted to a blog site thereby forcing old entries to appear positioned lower on the web page the highlight insertion logic intelligently analyzes the web page to determine where to position a previously made highlight.

In one embodiment of the invention users can display and view highlights on a per user and or a per group basis. Accordingly the highlighting server includes user and group subscription logic to manage the creation of and subscription to user as well as system defined groups. For instance a web based interface to the highlighting service may provide a user with an option to create a group and invite others to join the group. Similarly a user may search for and join previously created groups. The group subscription logic facilitates and manages such tasks. Once a member has subscribed to a particular group the member can configure the highlighting service to display highlights from all members of the group. In one embodiment a user may subscribe to receive emails embedded with new highlights from users in a particular group. Accordingly the user may subscribe to receive emails on a real time basis showing all new highlights as they are made by users. Alternatively a user may subscribe to receive a daily weekly or some other time period email summary showing relevant highlights for that time period.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighting server includes a web server module . The web server module not only serves documents that have been forwarded from other content providers but the web server module also provides an administrative interface to administrators of the highlighter server and a user interface to various features provided by the highlighter server . For example in one embodiment of the invention the web server component in conjunction with the administrative interface logic facilitates web based administration and configuration of the highlighter server . Similarly the web server component in conjunction with the user interface logic facilitates web based configuration and setup of various features of the highlighting services provided by the highlighter server . A storage device stores internet documents associated with the user interface logic and administrative interface logic provided by the web server module .

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server includes database management logic for managing a data repository. Accordingly as the highlighter server receives portions of text and images from internet documents as such portions are highlighted by users the database management logic stores the highlights in a database . Similarly the database management logic recalls the highlights from the database and provides the associated data to the web server module so that the document can be manipulated either at the server or at the client in a manner that will display highlights when the document is rendered by a client s web browser.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server includes contextual advertisement selection logic for analyzing the user generated highlights on an internet document for the purpose of selecting advertisements to be embedded or inserted in an internet document. For example when a user requests an internet document during a highlighting session one or more advertisements may be inserted or embedded in the internet document by the highlighter server based on an analysis of the requested document and or highlighting information derived from the highlighting service. For example the highlighting information may include highlights included on or associated with the requested internet document. The highlighting information on which the selection of an advertisement is based may also include comments associated with highlights on the requested document. In addition a user s highlighting or commenting history may be analyzed. For example the contextual advertisement selection logic may analyze a user s previous highlights. Similarly the highlighting activity of a user s friends or contacts may be used to select advertisements to be embedded in an internet document. A keyword matching algorithm may be used to identify advertisements associated with certain keywords where the advertisements are inserted into internet documents that match those keywords within a user generated highlight.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server includes an email server . Accordingly the email server facilitates the generation and sending of emails by users. For example via one or more user interface objects a user may be prompted to enter or select an email address in order to send a copy of a currently displayed internet document including any user generated highlights to another user. The email server not only facilitates the sending of the email but also the generation of the email and the formatting of any highlighted objects. Accordingly an email recipient will receive an email with an embedded internet document showing any user generated highlights made by the user. The recipient need not download any special software in order to view the sent internet document and associated highlights. In addition the highlight server may insert or embed within the email and or the internet document one or more advertisements where the advertisements are selected based on an analysis of user generated highlights. For instance a keyword matching algorithm may be used to determine what advertisements are inserted within the internet document based on a textual analysis of any highlights within the document.

Another component of the highlighter server is a search server . In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter server provides a search interface where users can search for relevant internet documents and highlights. For example a user may perform a keyword search where the keyword is searched for in a portion of an internet document that has been previously highlighted by a user or within an annotation or comments section associated with a particular highlight. The search server may facilitate searches by user or by group such that a user can enter the name or email address of a particular user as a search parameter. Furthermore a user may search for content based on tags a user assigned relevant keyword or term associated with or assigned to a piece of information like a picture article or video clip thus describing the item. Other aspects of the various search features are described in greater detail in related co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 766 669 entitled Method and System for Determining the Significance and Relevance of an Internet Document or a Portion Thereof filed on Jun. 21 2007 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

One embodiment of the highlighter server includes an application programming interface API module . In various configurations of the highlighting server the API module provides a common interface for communicating messages with third party add ons as well as software agents. For example in one embodiment of the invention a third party search engine may communicate API messages to the highlighter server requesting information about various documents. Accordingly the search engine may utilize an API to communicate those messages with the highlighter server . Similarly third party tools and applications that utilize highlights and the wide variety of information and data associated with highlights may make requests of the highlighting server via the API module .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various alternative components and logic may be included in a particular implementation of the highlighter server without departing from the spirit of the invention.

In one embodiment of the invention the tool panel includes an address bar which provides a separate mechanism for navigating the World Wide Web and displaying internet documents hosted by different content providers. For instance by typing an address in the text entry box of the address bar displayed in the highlighter tool panel and selecting the GO button a user can download and display an internet document associated with the address entered. Note that the address entered in the text entry box need not include a reference to the highlighting service. The entered address will automatically be manipulated to invoke the highlighting service. If for instance an additional address needs to be prepended to the address entered by the user in order to invoke the highlighting service with the requested internet document the tool panel will automatically manipulate the address accordingly.

In addition to an address bar in one embodiment of the invention the highlighter tool panel includes an email address bar where a user can enter an email address and share the currently displayed document including any user generated highlights in the document with another user. For example the email address bar enables a user to enter one or more email addresses and then select the SEND button to instantly send an email of the currently displayed internet document. If the currently displayed document includes user generated highlights e.g. highlighted text and those highlights will be displayed with the document in the email. Advantageously the internet document including any highlights is embedded within an email such that the user need not install any special software in order to view the document and any included highlights.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter toot panel includes a text entry box for adding a user to a list of users whose highlights can be selectively toggled on or off. For instance by inputting an email address e.g. name domain or username of another user in a text box and pressing the add button the user can be added to a list of users and groups whose highlights can be selectively shown or hidden. Adding a user in this manner may also add the user to one or more drop down menus selection boxes or scroll windows e.g. scroll window in used for quickly addressing emails.

A variety of other controls may be included with the highlighter tool panel according to an embodiment of the invention. For example in one embodiment of the invention the tool panel includes a button e.g. the PUT PEN DOWN button that toggles the cursor between a standard cursor and a highlighter pen cursor. When the active cursor is in highlighter pen mode for example the highlighting tool is active. This enables a user to select text or an object using a click and drag method by which a user simply selects an object to highlight by dragging across an object while depressing a cursor control e.g. mouse button. When the active cursor is not in highlighting mode a user may select an object e.g. a portion of text or an image and then press a button not shown to generate a highlight of the selected text. In one embodiment of the invention the tool panel includes a button or link e.g. the PAST HiLites button in that causes the web browser application to display a web page containing a list of past highlights made by the user. The list of past highlights may include a summary or excerpt from the previous highlights as well as a link to the full document from which the highlights are from. In addition the past highlights web page may show additional information about each highlight including but not limited to the time and date the highlight was generated the number of people that have viewed or selected the highlight the address of persons with whom the user has shared the highlight the number of other users who have highlighted the object and or annotations made by the user.

In one embodiment of the invention a color palette is included with the tool panel . By selecting a color from the color palette the user can manipulate the color of the active highlighter cursor and ultimately the color of any highlights the user makes. This provides each user with the ability to create customized highlight color coding schemes. Accordingly a user may mark up different sections of an internet document with different colors such that each different color indicates additional information about the highlighted text. For instance green highlighted text may support a particular proposition or indicate a positive treatment of a particular subject while red highlighted text may indicate a negative treatment of the same subject. Those skilled in the art will appreciate the wide variety of user customized color coding schemes that might be implemented according to an embodiment of the invention.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter tool panel includes a user group filtering mechanism which enables a user to select whose highlights should be displayed in a particular internet document on a per user or per group basis. For instance referring again to by selecting the SHOW GROUP 1 HiLites box in the tool panel all highlights made by members of GROUP 1 will be displayed to the user in the currently displayed internet document. Similarly by selecting the SHOW JANE DOE s HiLites box the user can control the display of highlights such that Jane Doe s highlights are also shown in the presently displayed document. Furthermore in one embodiment of the invention the filtering mechanism can be configured on a per document and or per domain basis such that a user can specify whose highlights the user would like to see when viewing particular documents or documents from particular domains.

In one embodiment of the invention the highlighter tool panel includes a configuration setting that enables the user to display highlights that represent the consolidation of all user generated highlights on a page. For example when the check box illustrated in next to the option SHOW CONSOLIDATED COLOR INTENSITY SPECTRUM with reference is checked the highlighting service will analyze all of the user generated highlights associated with a particular internet document or web page. Rather than show individual highlights the highlighting service causes portions of the internet document to be highlighted in particular colors that represent the frequency with which that portion of the document has been highlighted. For example when the check box is selected a portion of the document that has been highlighted by many users may be shown in red. Accordingly under this scenario a red highlight on a particular object indicates that the particular object has been highlighted by many users. A less frequently highlighted portion of the document may be highlighted in another color. In another embodiment the particular shade of the color may indicated the frequency with which the portion of the document has been highlighted. In one embodiment of the invention enabling the color intensity spectrum view of highlights automatically disables the user group view of highlights. That is when viewing highlights in the color intensity spectrum mode user level highlights and or group level highlights may not be shown.

Many of the configuration settings illustrated in may also be accessed and adjusted via a highlighter web portal. For example the highlighting service provides a web based user interface where users can set certain configuration parameters to default settings. Accordingly when a user invokes the highlighting service without the highlighter tool panel any configuration settings previously established via the highlighter web portal will be active by default.

In one embodiment of the invention the collaboration panel also provides a view of any comments that a user may have entered about a particular highlight. For instance if a user sends a comment to another user the other user may view the comment by simply putting the highlighter cursor over the highlight. If more than one comment is associated with a particular highlight the comments will be displayed in order such that a user can follow along with a virtual conversation based on an exchange of comments. Just as a user may filter the highlights that are displayed in one embodiment of the invention comments may optionally be filtered so that a user only sees comments from particular users or groups of interest.

In one embodiment of the invention the header portion of the email also includes an address bar where a user can enter the address or URL of a web site or document and begin a highlighting session. For instance by entering a URL in the address bar of the email and then pressing the START HiLiting button a web browser window will open and the requested document will be displayed along with a highlighter tool panel .

In one embodiment of the invention the contact management interface may also provide a mechanism for users to build out or define a social network. For example a user may specify which contacts to include in his or her social network. Accordingly several of the features described herein may be configured on the basis of one s social network. For example a user may select to see all highlights from any member within his social network.

In one embodiment of the invention a query is used to select the particular highlights from a highlighting service that are to be displayed in a highlight roll. Accordingly the selection parameters for the query may be configured by a user such that a wide variety of highlight characteristics can be used to select the particular highlights to be displayed in a highlight roll. In one embodiment of the invention a highlight roll may be configured to display highlights from a particular user or group of users. In another embodiment the highlight roll may be configured to randomly query the highlighting service for user generated highlights. In yet another embodiment the highlight roll may be configured to query the highlighting service for highlights that were made on a particular internet document website or group of websites. In another embodiment of the invention the highlight roll may be configured to query the highlighting service for highlights that contain a particular key word or words. In yet another embodiment the highlight roll may be configured to query the highlighting service for highlights of images.

In one embodiment of the invention a highlight roll may be used on a blog website. For example a blogger may use a highlight roll to enhance the content on his or her blog site. Alternatively the highlight roll may take the place of a blog altogether. For example by displaying a highlight roll in place of a blog a user may author blog entries by simply highlighting portions of other internet documents and then providing comments about the highlighted portions of the document. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a highlight roll may be used in other contexts not specifically addressed herein.

The foregoing description of various implementations of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not exhaustive and does not limit the invention to the precise form or forms disclosed. Furthermore it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the present invention may find practical application in a variety of alternative contexts that have not explicitly been addressed herein. Finally the illustrative processing steps performed by a computer implemented program e.g. instructions may be executed simultaneously or in a different order than described above and additional processing steps may be incorporated. The invention may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented partly in software the invention may be embodied as a set of instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The scope of the invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

