---

title: Opto-fluidic architecture for particle manipulation and sorting
abstract: This invention provides an apparatus for particle sorting, particle patterning, and methods of using the same. The sorting or patterning is opto-fluidics based, in that particles are applied to individual chambers in the device, detection and/or analysis of the particles is carried out, such that a cell or population whose removal or conveyance is desired is defined, and the cell or population is removed or conveyed via application of an optical force and flow-mediated conveyance or removal of the part.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08691151&OS=08691151&RS=08691151
owner: Massachusetts Institute of Technology
number: 08691151
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070827
---
This application is a National Phase Application of PCT International Application No. PCT US07 18806 International Filing Date Aug. 27 2007 claiming priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 841 208 filed Aug. 31 2006 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made in whole or in part with government support under Grant Number RR19652 awarded by the National Institute of Health. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

A wide array of applications exists for which the ability to specifically select desired particles or remove undesirable particles is useful. Such applications in particular may be served by the ability to sort particles based upon visual information.

One such application is for the sorting of particular cells in a given sample. Such application may be desirable for predicating sorts on for example temporal and spatial behavior of cells. To date the most conventionally used means for such application is flow assisted cell sorting FACS . While FACS enables high throughput sorting such sorts are based on whole cell fluorescence at a single timepoint. Moreover FACS necessitates use of relatively large cell samples.

While laser capture microdissection LCM is another means which has been used to sort non viable cells from microwell arrays however its live cell sorts require the use of proprietary films. A sorting apparatus which can be readily scaled requiring no electrical interconnects or support electronics to address cells allows for diverse surface functionalization requires seconds to remove a cell of interest and provides for simple retrieval of released viable cells is desirable and currently lacking.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of particle patterning on a substrate said method comprising 

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration elements shown in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

This invention provides inter alia devices apparatuses and methods of particle sorting or particle patterning. In one embodiment particle sorting or patterning is based upon visual information and may be referred to herein as opto fluidic particle or cell sorting OPTO FluPS or OPTO FluCS respectively .

OPTO FluPS or OPTO FluCS is opto fluidics based in that particles are applied to individual chambers in the device or apparatus and detection and or analysis and or selection of the particles is carried out such that a particle whose removal or conveyance is desired is defined and the particles is removed or conveyed via application of an optical force and flow mediated conveyance or removal of the particle.

In one embodiment the term particle or particles refers to a material which is insoluble in the fluid in which it is dispersed. In one embodiment the particles are in a liquid or in another in a gas. In one embodiment the particles comprise a pure substance such as salt metal nonmetal inorganic atomic material nonmetal inorganic molecular material organic compound or in another embodiment a homogeneous or a heterogeneous mixture of any combination thereof. In another embodiment the particles are heterogeneous solid materials. In some embodiments the particles are cells or organelles or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the particles are homogenates of cells. In some embodiments the particles are subcellular fractions. In some embodiments the particles are any biomolecule for example proteins peptides nucleic acids glycoproteins carbohydrates lipids or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the cells are eukaryotic and in some embodiments are suspended in a fluid medium.

The apparatuses of this invention comprise particle sorters. The term apparatus in some embodiments is to be considered interchangeable with that of device either of which is to be understood as comprising the elements as described herein.

The particle sorters of this invention comprise at least one substrate which in turn comprises chambers. In one embodiment the term chamber or well are interchangeable and refer to a structure which is suitable for the housing or at least partial enclosure of a particle as herein described. The dimensions of such wells or chambers in turn will reflect the particular application for use for example the size of individual particles or number of particles or shape or volume of particles of which sorting or patterning is desired as described herein.

In some embodiments such chambers or wells are raised with respect to the substrate plane and are adhered to the substrate via any conventional means for example via the use of a gasket or adhesive or deposition of the material. In some embodiments such chambers or wells are recessed with respect to the plane of the substrate. In some embodiments the material comprising the substrate is the same as that comprising the chambers such that they are contiguous.

In one embodiment the wells are shaped and sized to hold individual cells such as adherent cells neoplastic cells pre neoplastic cells neuronal cells microglia cells giant cells hormone secreting cells metabolism and storage cells barrier function cells ECM secreting cells contractile cells blood and immune system cell germ cells stem cells fused cells primary cells cell lines bacterial cells yeast protests or any desired cell which can be contained within the device.

In some embodiments the substrate further comprises microfluidic or nanofluidic channels. In some embodiments such channels will be configured as to be adjacent to the chambers or wells of the sorter. In some embodiments such channels are positioned proximally to the chambers such that upon application of the optical force as described herein the force may convey the particles from the chambers to the microchannels. In some embodiments the channels are positioned proximally to an outlet as well such that particles are conveyed via the channels to an outlet. In some embodiments such channels will be present in roughly similar vertical planar positions with respect to the opening of the wells or chambers of the sorters. In some embodiments such channels will be raised with respect to the opening of the wells or chambers or in some embodiments recessed. In some embodiments the sorters of this invention will comprise channels positioned at various heights with respect to the opening of the wells or chambers in the sorters. In some embodiments the apparatus further comprises a collection module operationally positioned proximally to the outlet such that sorted selected particles are conveyed via the outlet to the collection module.

It is to be understood that the terms sort sorting or sorted refer in some embodiments to any selection means where particular particles or populations of particles are chosen for conveyance or removal from the sorter device. In some embodiments the terms refer to particles which remain within the chambers of the device whose removal was not desired thus were selected to remain within the chambers which they occupy.

In some embodiments the channel depth width or combination thereof will vary in the sorters of this invention. In some embodiments the design of these parameters of the channels in the sorters of this invention will be a reflection of the material to be conveyed the distance conveyed the flow rate or pressure applied or a combination thereof.

In some embodiments the sorter is a chip comprising the wells or chambers and optionally the channels as herein described. In some embodiments the chambers and or channels in the devices of this invention will have dimensions on the order of microns or in some embodiments on the order of millimeters or in some embodiments on the order of nanometers or in some embodiments on the order of centimeters to suit a desired application. In some embodiments chamber size may vary within a given device and such size variance may be over a range of several orders of magnitude or more to suit a desired application. Similarly in some embodiments the channel size may vary within a given device etc.

In some embodiments the width of the chamber ranges from 5 1000 m the length of the chamber ranges from 500 m 8 mm and the depth of the chamber ranges from 1 m 10 mm. In some embodiments the width of the channels range from 5 1000 m and the depth of the channels range from 1 m 10 mm. In some embodiments the channels will have dimensions which roughly correspond to that of the chamber though the length will exceed that of the chambers by several orders of magnitude. In some embodiments the dimensions of the channels may be incrementally smaller as a function of their distance from the chambers.

In some embodiments the composition of the substrate will depend on a variety of factors including the techniques used to create the device the use of the device the composition of the sample the particles to be sorted the type of analysis conducted prior to and or following sorting the size of internal structures the presence or absence of additional components on the sorter and the technique used to move fluid etc. In some embodiments the sorters of the invention should be easily sterilizable although in some applications this is not required. In some embodiments the sorting devices are disposable or re usable.

In one embodiment the substrate can be made from a wide variety of materials including but not limited to silicon silicon dioxide silicon nitride glass and fused silica gallium arsenide indium phosphide III V materials PDMS PEG photo patterned PEGDA silicone rubber aluminum ceramics polyimide quartz plastics resins and polymers including polymethylmethacrylate acrylics polyethylene polyethylene terephthalate polycarbonate polystyrene and other styrene copolymers polypropylene polytetrafluoroethylene superalloys zircaloy steel gold silver copper tungsten molybdenum tantalum KOVAR KEVLAR KAPTON MYLAR teflon brass sapphire etc. High quality glasses such as high melting borosilicate or fused silicas may be used in some embodiments for example for their light transmission properties when any of the sample manipulation and or detection steps require light based technologies. In addition as outlined herein portions of the internal and or external surfaces of the device may be coated with a variety of coatings as needed to facilitate in some embodiments the manipulation or detection technique performed.

Assembly of such configurations is well known to the skilled artisan and an embodiment of such construction is provided herein below in Example 1.

In some embodiments fabrication of the sorters of the invention may be via a variety of techniques including but not limited to hot embossing such as described in H. Becker et al. Sensors and Materials 11 297 1999 hereby incorporated by reference molding of elastomers such as described in D. C. Duffy et. al. Anal. Chem. 70 4974 1998 hereby incorporated by reference injection molding LIGA soft lithography silicon fabrication and related thin film processing techniques as known in the art. In one embodiment glass etching and diffusion bonding of fused silica substrates may be used to prepare the sorters of this invention.

According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment the apparatus comprises a non conductive material such as glass or PDMS or in another embodiment a conductive or semi conductive material. In another embodiment the sorters comprise at least one exposed surface which is transparent.

The sorters of this invention will comprise at least one inlet and at least one outlet for the application and removal respectively of fluids to and from the sorter. In some embodiments multiple inlets outlets or combinations thereof are present in the sorters. In some embodiments multiple fluids are introduced or removed respectively from a single a few or individual inlets and outlets respectively.

In one embodiment at least one of the inlets of the apparatus serves for the introduction of a buffered solution comprising particles whose sorting is desired. In another embodiment a second inlet serves for the introduction of a second buffer which may for example comprise a reagent for the assay or visualization of the particles. The skilled artisan will appreciate that the fluids which are introduced to the sorter may serve an unlimited number of purposes which are desirable when sorting or patterning particles using the devices and or according to the methods of this invention and any such introduction represents an embodiment thereof.

In another embodiment the fluids for use according to the methods and for use in the devices of this invention may comprise any fluid that will suit a desired purpose. For introduction of the particles to the sorter the fluid will comprise particles for separation or patterning and may include for example bodily fluids such as in some embodiments blood urine serum lymph saliva anal and vaginal secretions perspiration and semen or in another embodiment homogenates of solid tissues as described such as for example liver spleen bone marrow lung muscle nervous system tissue etc. and may be obtained from virtually any organism including for example mammals rodents bacteria etc. In some embodiments the sorter separates mixed components into individual structures e.g. different cells are sorted into individual chambers of the device.

In some embodiments the solutions or buffered media may comprise environmental samples such as for example materials obtained from air agricultural water or soil sources which are present in a fluid which can be subjected to the methods of this invention. In another embodiment such samples may be biological warfare agent samples research samples and may comprise for example glycoproteins biotoxins purified proteins etc.

The devices of this invention in addition to the sorters further comprise a detection system operationally connected to the sorter. The term detection system in this context refers to the ability to select a population of particles which once applied to the sorter can be distinguished as to whether the particles will be assigned for removal or conveyance from the sorter. Such detection may be by the naked eye of the observer or may be via the use of any equipment or machinery which provides readout for a desired phenotype on which the selection is to be carried out. For example in some embodiments detection refers to machinery which detects a particular event on which the sort is based. For example such machinery may comprise a luminometer and the presence of luminescent particles serves as the signal for sorting such particles or alternatively sorting non luminescent particles. In another embodiment such sorting may rely on the presence of fluorescence the localization of fluorescence the change in fluorescence as a function of time the temporal regulation of fluorescence over a specified region etc. as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In other embodiments detection may occur following assay of the sorted particles. For example detection may rely on the evolution of a particular compound from assayed particles such as for example the evolution of a gas within a chamber following assay of the particle in the chamber wherein such gas evolution may be detected for example by view of bubbling by the naked eye or upon magnification of the particular chamber or the accumulation of condensation over a particular region etc.

It is to be understood that any means of selection of a subset of particles in a chamber or multiple chambers of the sorters of this invention is to be considered as part of this invention and is to be understood as encompassed by the use of the term detection in reference to the devices and or methods of this invention.

In another embodiment detection may comprise imaging of the chamber which may be accomplished via any means known in the art and may include reflectance mode or fluorescence microscopy. Imaging may be accomplished over a course of time and in one embodiment particles for separation may be labeled with a detectable marker for example a fluorescent marker. In one embodiment anti quenching agents may be added to the solutions used according to the methods and in the devices of this invention.

For example in some embodiments reagents may be incorporated in the buffers used in the methods and devices of this invention to enable chemiluminescence detection. In some embodiments the method of detecting the labeled material includes but is not limited to optical absorbance refractive index fluorescence phosphorescence chemiluminescence electrochemiluminescence electrochemical detection voltometry or conductivity. In some embodiments detection occurs using laser induced fluorescence as is known in the art.

In some embodiments the labels may include but are not limited to fluorescent lanthanide complexes including those of Europium and Terbium fluorescein fluorescamine rhodamine tetramethylrhodamine eosin erythrosine coumarin methyl coumarins pyrene Malacite green stilbene Lucifer Yellow Cascade Blue Texas Red 1 1 1 3 propanediylbis dimethylimino 3 1 propanediyl bis 4 3 methyl 2 3H benzoxazolylidene methyl tetraiodide which is sold under the name YOYO 1 Cy and Alexa dyes and others described in the 9th Edition of the Molecular Probes Handbook by Richard P. Haugland hereby expressly incorporated by reference. Labels may be added to label the desired molecule prior to introduction into the sorter in some embodiments and in some embodiments the label is added after particle loading in the sorter. In some embodiments the labels are attached covalently as is known in the art or in other embodiments via non covalent attachment. In some embodiments photodiodes confocal microscopes CCD cameras or photomultiplier tubes maybe used to image the labels thus incorporated and may in some embodiments comprise the apparatus of the invention representing in some embodiments a lab on a chip mechanism.

Embodiments of such a scenario are exemplified herein in Example 1 which is a non limiting example of one type of setup of such a device which in turn was used to sort cells based on particular marker incorporation e.g. orange versus green or nuclear versus membrane see for example .

In one embodiment detection is accomplished using laser induced fluorescence as known in the art. In some embodiments the apparatus may further comprise a light source detector and other optical components to direct light onto the sorter and thereby collect fluorescent radiation thus emitted. The light source may comprise a laser light source such as in some embodiments a laser diode or in other embodiments a violet or a red laser diode. In other embodiments VCSELs VECSELs or diode pumped solid state lasers may be similarly used. In some embodiments a Brewster s angle laser induced fluorescence detector may used. In some embodiments one or more beam steering mirrors may be used to direct the beam to a desired location for detection.

In one embodiment the sorter may be constructed of a material which renders it transparent or semitransparent in order to image the solutions being sorted or in another embodiment to ascertain the progress of the sorting or in another embodiment to facilitate sorting of particles as a function of a dynamic process etc.

In some embodiments the materials further have low conductivity and high chemical resistance to buffer solutions and or mild organics. In other embodiments the material is of a machinable or moldable polymeric material and may comprise insulators ceramics metals or insulator coated metals.

In other embodiments the sorter may be constructed from a polymer material that is resistant to alkaline aqueous solutions and mild organics. In another embodiment the sorter comprises at least one surface which is transparent or semi transparent such that in one embodiment imaging of the chamber is possible.

The device comprises inlets and outlets for the introduction of fluids for the conveyance of selected particles in some embodiments. In some embodiments such inlets may in turn be in fluid communication with the chambers and or channels in the sorters. In other embodiments the chambers and channels are in fluid communication and the chambers alone are in fluid communication with the inlets.

In one embodiment inlet may comprise an area of the substrate in fluidic communication with one or more channels or chambers or in other embodiments in fluidic communication with one or more channels yet not in communication with the chambers.

Inlets and outlets may be fabricated in a wide variety of ways depending on the substrate material of the sorter and the dimensions used.

In one embodiment inlets and or outlets are formed using conventional tubing which prevents sample leakage when fluid is applied to the device under pressure. In one embodiment the inlet may further comprise a means of applying a constant pressure to generate pressure driven flow in the device.

In one embodiment the buffered solution is flowed through the chamber at a relatively constant flow rate which in one embodiment ranges from about 0.5 15 l minute. According to this aspect of the invention pressure applied to the device will be such as to accommodate a relatively constant flow rate as desired as will be understood by one skilled in the art. According to this aspect of the invention and in other embodiments care will be taken to ensure unacceptable shear stresses are not applied to particles whose characteristics may change as a function of such application for example cells and stress responses. In some embodiments such flow rate will be a function of cell size shape function or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment any of various mechanisms may be employed to manipulate transport and or move fluid within the device and or to convey the particles within the device. In some embodiments pressurized fluid flow is applied from a syringe or in another embodiment other pressure source attached to in one embodiment an inlet of a device of this invention.

In some embodiment a pressure stop is positioned between two or more chambers in an apparatus of this invention such that the pressure driven flow through a first chamber does not influence the flow through a second chamber in some embodiments of this invention.

Inlets outlets allow access to the chambers to which they are connected for the purpose in one embodiment of introducing or in another embodiment of removing fluids from the chambers on the microfluidic chip. In one embodiment inlets allow access to the chamber to which they are connected for the purpose of introducing fluids to the chamber for example from a sample reservoir or in another embodiment from a sample stored in a conventional storage means such as a tube. In another embodiment the outlet allows access of fluid comprising particles from the chamber which has undergone sorting according to the methods of this invention. According to this aspect of the invention the outlet may allow for the removal and storage of the sorted material or in another embodiment its conveyance to an analytical module which in one embodiment may be coupled thereto.

In one embodiment cells particles or other materials are applied to the devices of this invention by any means known in the art. For example cells particles or other materials may be delivered by directly pipetting them onto the surface of the device either manually or by robotic liquid handling systems. In some embodiments application is via bulk delivering the cells particles or other materials in fluid to the surface of the device and removing excess fluid by pipetting or in some embodiments via the application of a vacuum or in some embodiments via the use of a physical implement to remove the cells such as for example a cell scraper or rubber policeman. In some embodiments the cells particles or other materials are applied via the use of a delivery device with microfluidic channels to deliver the cells to the surface of the device.

In one embodiment the substrates chambers channels or a combination thereof are coated with at least one material which minimizes particle adhesion thereto.

As referred to herein the phrase a or an when in reference to any element or any embodiment of this invention is to be understood as encompassing at least one of the indicated element. In some embodiments the terms are to be taken to refer to two or more multiples of ten of numbers of elements which may vary by several orders of magnitude as appropriate to the reference element.

In one embodiment the material which minimizes particle adhesion is polytetrafluoroethylene TEFLON or in another embodiments is a protein solution which in one embodiment comprises Bovine Serum Albumin BSA . In some embodiments the substrate is formed of a material which itself minimizes such adhesion or in another embodiment the substrate may be treated to achieve this result for example via coating with a compound which facilitates the desired result.

In one embodiment substrates chambers channels or a combination thereof may be coated by microstamping molecules such as polyethylene glycol PEG or octadecyl trichlorosilane OTS both of which resist protein adhesion and thereby prevent cell adhesion.

In one embodiment the substrates chambers channels or a combination thereof comprise at least one material which promotes or stimulates adherence to the device. In some embodiments suitable adherence promoting materials may include but are not limited to various carbon coatings nitrides metal coatings metal alloys biological polymers glasses oxides phosphates and carbides or combinations thereof. In another embodiment additional materials can be used for coating the substrate to promote adherence such as for example coating or application of cytokines chemokines matrix proteins adhesion molecules lectins immunoglobulins RGD peptides R arginine G glycine D aspartic acid and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In another embodiment the adherence promoting materials may include but are not limited to an antigen hapten enzyme an enzyme cofactor a receptor agonist a carbohydrate a receptor and others. In some embodiments the presence of such molecules alter cellular dynamics and may serve as a basis for the sorting of particles contained therein representing an embodiment of this invention.

In another embodiment the adherence promoting materials may include but are not limited to an antibody specific for various or specific mammalian cells. For example anti Ig kappa light chain antibody anti CD45R antibody or anti syndecan may be used to differentially bind B cells. Antibodies to cytokeratins may differentially bind epithelial cells etc. Any of the methods known in the art for conjugating an antibody to a solid phase support can be used in the present invention.

It is to be understood that any material which either promotes stimulates minimizes or abrogates adhesion to the devices of this invention may be implemented and or its effect on cellular behavior may in turn provide a basis for the sorting and or patterning methods of this invention and represents an embodiment thereof.

In one embodiment the devices of this invention may comprise an integrated temperature control system. In one embodiment on chip temperature sensing may be conducted and in another embodiment may use a microscale calibration technique that gives spatial information.

In one embodiment the temperature control system may consist of an on chip metal temperature sensing resistor fabricated at the same time as the trap electrodes and a resistively heated transparent conductive heater connected to a computer. The computer implements in software a PID proportional integral differential controller that in turn controls a heater power supply. The transparent heater may be made in one embodiment of indium tin oxide ITO a transparent conductor that is commonly used as an electrode in LCD displays and is used as a heater in a commercial environmental chamber for microscopy Bioptechs Inc. . In one embodiment it is possible to place the heater anywhere in the system. In one embodiment commercially obtained ITO coated coverslips are used and the solution is heated directly

In one embodiment the performance of the temperature control system can be evaluated using encapsulated thermochromic liquid crystals TLCs Chaudhari A. M. Woudenberg T. M. Albin M. Goodson K. E. Transient liquid crystal thermometry of microfabricated PCR vessel arrays. Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems 7 345 355 1998 . These crystals which are the same active ingredient found in flexible strip thermometers that patients can apply to their foreheads change color in response to temperature differences and are readily available in formulations with responses centered around physiological temperatures and in particle sizes of several microns giving adequate spatial resolution. They allow for the spatial integration of the image and the temperature distribution of the chip and through calibration achieving in one embodiment 0.1 C. accuracy and precision.

In another embodiment pH is controlled in DMEM based media via a bicarbonate buffering system. In one embodiment pre equilibrated media is delivered to the chip for example via introduction to an inlet via use of gas permeable tubing. In another embodiment pH may be measured before and after the chip using a commercial inline microvolume pH sensor. One may in another embodiment image the chambers and use the phenol red indicator in DMEM to determine whether there is noticeable pH change in the medium under these conditions. If so in another embodiment one can adjust the COflowrate etc.

In another embodiment Owill be monitored and controlled in the same way as CO using inline microvolume sensing and control as described herein.

In one embodiment the devices of this invention will comprise at least one environmental controller. In some embodiments the devices may comprise 2 or more such controllers or in another embodiment measures are taken to preserve desired environmental conditions.

In another embodiment the device is constructed modularly such that once loaded the device containing particles may be removed placed in an appropriately controlled environment for a prescribed period of time and reinserted to the apparatus for subsequent sorting.

In another embodiment automatic fluid control may simplify operation of the device and enable precise timing of reagent additions. The external flow system may for example consist of 360 mm OD tubing commonly used in HPLC coupled to computer controlled switching and injection valves and syringe pump. One may in one embodiment select the inner diameter of the flow paths to minimize internal volume while for example preventing undue shear on the cells.

The devices of this invention in addition to the sorters further comprise a detection system operationally connected to the sorter and an optical force source operationally connected to the sorter.

As is exemplified and described herein the devices and or methods of this invention provide for specific conveyance of a sorted particle or particle population. Such sorted particle s can be conveyed to other regions on a substrate and in some embodiments can be therein deposited which in some embodiments may reflect a means of particle patterning. In other embodiments such sorted particle s can be conveyed out of the sorting device and removed for other applications including discarding or further assay or other manipulation or storage of the sorted particle s.

Any number of applications may be served by the ability to specifically sort a subpopulation of particles applied to a sorting device of this invention. In some embodiments multiple sorts can be effected from the same application of the starting fluid and is part of this invention as well. It is to be understood that there is no limitation to the use of the particles which are sorted according to the methods and or using the devices of this invention which all comprise a part of this invention.

For example and in some embodiments the methods and apparatuses of this invention may be employed to sort and thereby determine changing size characteristics in a cell population or in another embodiment contamination of a medium or in another embodiment differentiation of cells or in another embodiment cell signaling events or in another embodiment cell growth or in another embodiment cell cycle arrest or in another embodiment differential gene expression in a cell including in bacterial cells transformed with a library of expression vectors. In some embodiments the methods and apparatuses of this invention may be employed to sort and thereby assess or assay subcellular localization of a particular compound or organism or temporal regulation of expression or temporal regulation of vesicular traffic or marker expression in a dynamic way for any intracellular event or other monitoring of intracellular events as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. Similarly the chambers of this invention can be so constructed to accommodate 2 or more cells per chamber in a desired proximity such that events upon cell to cell contact early events in infection quorum sensing etc. can be assessed and cells particles with desired characteristics can be sorted or patterned for example for further study or assay.

It is to be understood that the methods and or apparatuses of this invention may be used for the sorting of any particle from a population of particles or patterning of a particle present in a mixture in a fluid representing embodiments of this invention.

The apparatus and methods of the instant inventions utilize at least in part forces on particles caused by light which in turn may be applied to move a particle in a given orientation or direction. In some embodiments by moving the light relative to the particles typically through a medium having some degree of viscosity particles may thus be separated based at least in part upon the optical force asserted against the particle. In some embodiments the optical force is applied in a pattern which moves relative to the device particle chamber to which it is applied however it will be appreciated that the relative motion may be achieved otherwise such as by maintaining the optical force source stationary and moving the subject particle etc. relative to the source.

Any source of an optical force may be used in the devices and or methods of this invention. In one embodiment the source is a laser which in one embodiment is at biologically compatible is infrared wavelengths allowing precise cell characterization and manipulation with little or no effect on the cell itself.

It is to be understood that any embodiment for any element described in the devices of this invention is to be considered applicable for use according to the methods of this invention and an embodiment thereof.

For example and in some embodiments the particles are sorted as a function of expression presence or localization of said detectable marker or a combination thereof. In some embodiments sorting or in other embodiments patterning of the particles according to the methods of this invention is desirable upon detection of a particular event in a dynamic series of events that occurs in the system employed and such sorting or patterning can be effected on time scales as short as fractions of a second or following observations for minutes or hours days or week or years as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the methods make use of particles tagged or conjugated to a detectable marker which is a fluorescent molecule or in another embodiment is an electron dense or light reflective molecule. According to this aspect of the invention use of such markers is particularly suited to detection via microscopy including phase contrast fluorescence confocal or atomic force microscopy.

In some embodiments the methods of this invention employ a controller for fluid flow rate and pressure through the sorting patterning device. In some embodiments the optical force is applied prior to the application of flow at which application the particle is levitated above the chamber s uppermost boundary or close to the chamber s aperture such that upon the application of a relatively constant flow rate and pressure the particle is then conveyed in the direction of flow. Such a scenario is schematically depicted herein for example in representing one embodiment of the invention.

In another embodiment the apparatus further comprises at least one environmental controller to regulate pH or temperature in said sorter. In another embodiment the sorter further comprises microchannels positioned proximally to the chambers such that the applied optical force conveys particles from said chambers to said microchannels upon application of flow. In another embodiment the microchannels are positioned proximally to the outlet such that the particles are conveyed via the microchannels to the outlet.

In some embodiments the microchip comprises the sorter of the device of this invention and in some embodiments may comprise the channels and additional regions for conveyance of the particle and or patterning the conveyed particles on other regions of the substrate as described herein.

In some embodiments the apparatus further comprises a collection module operationally positioned proximally to said outlet such that said particles are conveyed via said outlet to said collection module. In some embodiments the collection module comprises reagents for the assay of sorted particles. In some embodiments the collection module further comprises an apparatus for the detection and analysis of the results of said assay

In one embodiment subsequent to separation via the methods and utilizing the devices of this invention further analysis of the sorted materials is possible. Such analysis may be via direct coupling of the machinery necessary for such analysis to the outlet of a microchamber as herein described or in another embodiment samples are processed separately.

In one embodiment such subsequent analysis may comprise electrophoresis chromatography mass spectroscopy sequencing for example for the identification of particular proteins or peptides NMR and others as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

In another embodiment screening and retrieval of cells via the methods of this invention enable detection of complex phenotypes behaviors that vary over space within the cell and over time. Cells are inherently dynamical systems with specialized compartments. Timescales for relevant phenomena vary over many orders of magnitude from the subsecond responses of cells to calcium to the 10 s of seconds for ligand induced protein translocation to the hours needed for mammalian cells to go through the cell cycle and each of these timescales may be observed via the methods of this invention.

Cells especially eukaryotic cells are also compartmentalized systems. Transcription occurs in the nucleus secreted proteins are processed in the Golgi and mitochondria produce ATP. Thus knowing a protein s location gives vital information as to its function. In addition protein localization is dynamic proteins shuttle from the membrane to the cytoplasm upon receptor activation traffic through the Golgi during processing or shuttle into the nucleus to activate transcription. Thus temporal patterns of intracellular localization give information as to the dynamics underlying cell function a protein of unknown function localized to the mitotic spindle during M phase is likely involved in mitosis. In another embodiment of this invention assaying the cells via the methods of this invention include assessment of cellular compartmentalization of a protein of interest its spatial arrangement over time and interaction with other cellular protein and or nucleic acids.

In one embodiment genetic screens can be conducted via the methods of this invention and may use cells with fluorescent outputs such as green fluorescent protein GFP or its variants Tsien R. Y. The green fluorescent protein. Annual Review of Biochemistry 67 509 544 1998 that indicates or reports the presence of the phenotype of interest Taylor D. L. Woo E. S. Giuliano K. A. Real time molecular and cellular analysis the new frontier of drug discovery. Current Opinion in Biotechnology 12 75 81 2001 Rutter G. A. Kennedy H. J. Wood C. D. White M. R. H. Tavare J. M. Real time imaging of gene expression in single living cells. Chemistry Biology 5 R285 R290 1998 . In one embodiment screens of protein subcellular localization Rolls M. M. et al. A visual screen of a GFP fusion library identifies a new type of nuclear envelope membrane protein. J Cell Biol 146 29 44. 1999 Peelle B. et al. Intracellular protein scaffold mediated display of random peptide libraries for phenotypic screens in mammalian cells. Chem Biol 8 521 34. 2001 Fujii G. Tsuchiya R. Ezoe E. Hirohashi S. Analysis of nuclear localization signals using a green fluorescent protein fusion protein library. Exp Cell Res 251 299 306. 1999 two hybrid screens for protein interactions Shioda T. Andriole S. Yahata T. Isselbacher K. J. A green fluorescent protein reporter mammalian two hybrid system with extrachromosomal maintenance of a prey expression plasmid application to interaction screening. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 5220 4. 2000 and reporters of protein tyrosine kinase activity Ting A. Y. Kain K. H. Klemke R. L. Tsien R. Y. Genetically encoded fluorescent reporters of protein tyrosine kinase activities in living cells. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 98 15003 8. 2001 may be effected via visual inspection of fluorescing cells as described.

Fluorescence may also used to study the intracellular dynamics of the cells within the devices of this invention. In one embodiment fluorescence resonance energy transfer FRET which is a sensitive measure of protein protein interactions and has been used to study everything from protein localization to kinase activity Lippincott Schwartz J. Snapp E. Kenworthy A. Studying protein dynamics in living cells. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 2 444 56. 2001 Zhang J. Campbell R. E. Ting A. Y. Tsien R. Y. Creating new fluorescent probes for cell biology. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 3 906 18 2002 may be employed in the methods of this invention. In another embodiment fluorescence recovery after photobleaching FRAP may be used to measure protein mobility by in one embodiment photobleaching a cell area and measuring the time needed to restore fluorescence from newly introduced fluorophores. In another embodiment fluorescence correlation spectroscopy FCS may be used to measure protein diffusion and concentration in live cells giving information on in another embodiment protein protein interactions.

In another embodiment morphology is another phenotypic indicator used in the methods and in accordance with the devices of this invention. In another embodiment morphological assessment may be complemented with molecular characterization. In another embodiment morphology is utilized in characterizing cell function such as for example and in another embodiment the determination of cellular apoptosis which may be determined morphologically via the observation changes in cell and nuclear morphology over the time course of the process studied.

In another embodiment one step library screens such as in one embodiment a cDNA or mutant library of mammalian cells having undergone transient transfections with such libraries may be performed. In another embodiment screens involving introduced genetic elements using in one embodiment stable transfection or in another embodiment transient transfection with pooled libraries may be used. In another embodiment a device and or method of this invention can be used to isolate single positive responding cells for immediate genetic analysis such as for example single cell PCR.

In another embodiment fluorescent reporters based on FRET which experience a shift in fluorescence emission wavelength typically blue to yellow after activation may be used in the devices and or methods of this invention. The change in fluorescence the fluorescence ratio serves as the reporter and in one embodiment screening according to this aspect may be accomplished via observing the same cell twice before and after activation to measure the change in fluorescence. Rationally designed FRET reporters or those generated in reporter libraries via random mutagenesis may be used in one embodiment.

In another embodiment synthetic genetic regulatory modules introduced into for example may be used to investigate genetic regulation and fundamental cell biology via the methods of this invention. In one embodiment combinatorial techniques to generate plasmids randomly encoding differing two input the small molecules IPTG and aTc and one output a GFP reporter logic functions may be used as described Guet C. C. Elowitz M. B. Hsing W. Leibler S. Combinatorial synthesis of genetic networks. Science 296 1466 70. 2002 . in one embodiment similar library based approaches could be extended to dynamic or even localization circuits such as variations on the original repressilator where cells are easily isolated after extended dynamic monitoring.

In another embodiment phage display is used to engineer antibodies or other proteins with specific properties e.g. high affinity binding of ligand whose binding may be determined using the devices and via the methods of this invention. In one embodiment engineered enzymes which produce diffusible products may be assessed via the methods and utilizing the devices of this invention such as via in one embodiment visualization of a ligand that became fluorescent after enzymatic processing wherein one could screen for a diffuse fluorescent cloud around cells and thus assay enzymatic activity. In one embodiment according to this aspect strongly fluorescent clouds would then indicate enzymes with rapid kinetics which could then be isolated and undergo further rounds of evolution.

In another embodiment combining fluorescence reporter output fluorescence intensity with localization greatly enhances the capability of cell based screens. In one embodiment high throughput genetic screens for investigating the secretory pathway for example with a VSVG GFP reporter could be used to find proteins that affect various steps in this pathway. In one embodiment specific inhibitors of Golgi to membrane trafficking such as for example secramine may be isolated via chemical genetic screen performed via the methods of this invention. In one embodiment a translocation based screen may be conducted using a device and or via the methods of this invention. In one embodiment a fluorescent NFAT reporter that translocates to the nucleus upon activation may be used to screen a cDNA library for proteins that disrupt this pathway wherein the imaging and isolation of positive responding cells is conducted using the devices and or via the methods of this invention.

In another embodiment the microfabricated format of the devices of this invention may be utilized to functionally probe cells in conjunction with other cellular probe machinery. In one example the sorting devices of this invention may be modified to include the ability to perform on chip patch clamping which allows one to functionally screen transiently transfected ion channel libraries. In another embodiment real time nanoscale sensors and other microfluidic based technologies may be incorporated within the devices of this invention.

In some embodiments of the methods of this invention the step comprising detecting the particles comprises assaying the particles and in some embodiments the assigning of at least a subset of the detected particles for removal and or for patterning on a substrate is a function of the results of the assay. Such assigning and conveyance and or removal may be accomplished on any appropriate time scale from fractions of a second to seconds to minutes hours days weeks months or even years.

In some embodiments the methods of this invention employ an optical force source which is a near infrared laser. In some embodiments the methods of this invention employ a detection system which is an optical detection system which in some embodiments comprises a microscope and or in some embodiments comprises a light source and a detector. In some embodiments the detector detects scattered light or in some embodiments the detector detects fluorescence emissions.

In some embodiments the apparatus used in accordance with the methods of this invention is a modular system and in some embodiments the sorter may be readily removed from or inserted into said apparatus. In some embodiments the methods of this invention comprise the step of evaluating or assessing the sorted particles and prior to assigning which particle or particles for conveyance or removal the sorter is removed from the apparatus and maintained under desired conditions which differ from that present in the apparatus for any desired time frame.

In some embodiments the methods of this invention make use of an apparatus further comprising channels linked to the outlet of the sorter such that sorted particles are conveyed from the sorter through the channels. In some embodiments the apparatus comprises a second substrate comprising the sorter and the channels and in some embodiments the particles are conveyed to desired regions on the second substrate via the channels.

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of particle patterning on a substrate said method comprising 

In another embodiment this invention provides a method of particle patterning on a substrate said method comprising 

applying a fluid comprising particles to an inlet of a particle sorting apparatus said apparatus comprising 

In one embodiment the term patterning refers to the specific deposition of at least one desired material such as in some embodiments particles or cells at a desired location on a substrate.

The devices and or methods of the present invention can be used in some embodiments to pattern thousands of cells with single cell resolution and concurrently be so constructed so as to allow the cells room to grow.

In one embodiment the second substrate onto which the material is patterned may be coated or associated with another material or another layer of cells. When cells are patterned onto the second substrate in some embodiments they can attach after a few hours and proliferate.

In one embodiment assay or analysis may be conducted subsequent to cell patterning spreading proliferation or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the assay is a diagnostic assay.

In one embodiment the cells are engineered to express at least one desired molecule or in another embodiment the cells are contacted with a library of molecules prior to loading of the cells. In one embodiment the cells are assayed to determine efficacy of a molecule within said library which in one embodiment is a drug. In one embodiment the cells are stem or progenitor cells and in one embodiment the cells are engineered to express at least one desired protein. In one embodiment the cells are cultured under conditions promoting expression of the protein and in one embodiment the conditions promote tissue engineering as a function of expression.

In one embodiment the devices and or methods of the invention modulate cell cell signaling by patterning single cells in grids of different configurations.

In one embodiment cells or particles are assayed when positioned on the first or second substrate or both. In some embodiments the components of the device are selected such that minimal background contribution of the materials is contributed to the readout of the assay. In some embodiments such choice in material is a reflection of the reagent used. In one embodiment the reagent may comprise is an antibody a nucleic acid an enzyme a substrate a ligand or a combination thereof which in turn may be coupled to a detectable marker which in another embodiment is a fluorescent compound. In one embodiment according to this aspect of the invention the substrates may be comprised of a transparent material and in another embodiment analysis is carried out using automated microscopy and may comprise the application of for example fluorescence microscopy following the sort prior to and in some embodiments subsequent to the patterning of the particles or cells. In some embodiments comparative differences in the obtained readout are useful.

In another embodiment such assay may make use of microscopy which in turn can be coupled to the devices of the invention and provide for automated imaging and phenotype acquisition as part of the methods of this invention. In one embodiment commercially available automated microscopes by Zeiss Nikon etc. which enables the user to control the objectives fluorescence filters x y stage z axis autofocus diaphragms etc may be used. According to this aspect appropriate control software e.g. Metamorph may be used in another embodiment to set up a timelapse protocol repeatedly taking brightfield and fluorescence pictures of an arbitrary set of fields at arbitrary time intervals.

In one embodiment the use of two photon microscopy will be used in order to give greater fluorescence sensitivity or in another embodiment quantum dots may be used for high brightness live cell labeling.

In one embodiment a combination of general assays to test overall long term effects of cellular manipulations in the patterning methods of this invention may be conducted which may comprise molecular analysis of the stress response using for example immunofluorescence or RT PCR. In one embodiment stress responses may be determined via the characterization of changes in both nuclear accumulation and mRNA levels in response to manipulation on chip. In one embodiment the devices and or methods of this invention find application in various screens. In one embodiment the screen may be a genetic screen which in one embodiment has three fundamental steps 1 alteration of the genetic program of the cell 2 patterning the altered cell under desired conditions and 3 observation and or identification of altered phenyotype in the cell as a consequence of the genetic changes. In some embodiments the method will enable the determination of the elements responsible for the displayed phenotypes. In one embodiment alteration can be accomplished using the natural background mutation rate or in another embodiment inducing mutations with chemicals or UV light or in another embodiment introducing exogenous pieces of DNA e.g. transfection or in another embodiment using small molecules or siRNAs to alter protein function or in another embodiment protein expression. In one embodiment specific patterning of the altered cells with the ability to control the cellular microenvironment and its downstream effects will dramatically enhance the reach of genetic screens.

In another embodiment the methods and or devices enable the determination of behaviors that vary over space and over time. Cells are inherently dynamical systems with specialized compartments. Timescales for relevant phenomena vary over many orders of magnitude from the subsecond responses of cells to calcium to the 10 s of seconds for ligand induced protein translocation to the hours needed for mammalian cells to go through the cell cycle and each of these timescales may be observed via the methods and or devices of this invention.

In another embodiment the devices of this invention find application in the construction of optical colored displays. According to this aspect of the invention and in one embodiment a solution comprising hollow particles e.g. vesicles are individually introduced to wells of the first substrate. The vesicles encapsulate a labeled marker for example a red dye molecule. The substrate is flipped over a transparent surface and the solution is dried out causing the vesicles to break and release the red dye onto the surface in positions that follows the spacings in the substrate well array. The substrate is cleaned and filled with vesicles that carry blue dye molecules. The substrate is aligned with one well length shift to its former position with respect to the surface. The process is repeated yielding a square area of blue dye molecules next to the square area of the red dye molecules on the transparent surface. The process can be repeated with additional colors to yield a display exhibiting an array of pixels each contains a set of different colors. Each pixel can be later addressed electronically or optically by attaching an appropriate probe to each pixel area.

In another embodiment the devices and or methods of this invention may find application in the detection of cell signaling events. In some embodiments such signaling events are stimulated by proximity for example early signaling events in white blood cells when in proximity to a pathogen may be readily determined using the methods and or devices of the invention. In one embodiment the first particle sorted may comprise patterning of individual macrophages. The method may also entail sorting of specific for example mutagenized or library transformed pathogens which in turn are patterned onto the region wherein the macrophages were previously patterned. In another embodiment varying numbers of bacterial cells for example are patterned enabling the positioning of a desired number of pathogens and cell signaling in the macrophages is determined as a function of bacterial cell number in proximity to the macrophages. In another embodiment other signaling events in cells may be determined as a function of environmental conditions cell density etc. For example bacterial cells may be patterned at varying density on the second substrate and the initiation of quorum sensing may then be determined.

In some embodiments the methods and or devices may be used to form multiple patterns of particles cells. According to this aspect and in one embodiment the methods and or devices may be used to pattern a first cell type or particle onto the substrate and subsequently pattern an additional cell type and or particle onto the substrate. In some embodiments multiple rounds of patterning are envisaged. In some embodiments the second patterning is atop the first cell or particle patterned or in another embodiment the second patterning is shifted over by a discrete length for example one cell or particle length over so as to produce for example a checkerboard of different cells or cell particle or particle particle arrangements. In some embodiments variation in multiple patterning steps enables arrangements of specific lines rows of different particles cells on a single array. In some embodiments such patterned arrays with repeat patterning steps may be accomplished utilizing the same first substrate twice or in some embodiments using multiple first substrates patterning cells particles onto the same second substrate.

In some embodiments this enables patterning of cells onto substrates comprising cells or particles which have not been patterned. Some applications of this principle may include patterning single bacterial cells onto monolayer of immune cells for example where the bacterial cells are for example engineered to express a library which comprises mutations which affect the pathogenesis of the organism.

In some embodiments the particles for use with the devices and or methods of this invention comprise a drug an antibody a nucleic acid or any compound of interest. The compound may serve as a probe for a particular function or to determine expression or in other embodiments to treat a particular condition. In some embodiments such compound associated beads which may be physically attached or attracted to the beads by non covalent association may be patterned onto individual cells multiple patterned arrangements monolayers of cells non patterned cell groupings etc. There is no limitation to the application of the compound associated bead to any substrate in this invention.

In some embodiments cells can be patterned onto electrodes and can in turn find application as biosensors as is well known in the art for example as described in U.S. Application Publication Number 20050095630 U.S. Application Publication Number 20050014201 U.S. Application Publication Number 20040048241 and others as will be appreciated by one of skill in the art.

In some embodiments the methods and or devices may be used to determine the effects of specific geometries on cell growth. For example the particle patterning device may comprise a second substrate with a non flat surface.

In some embodiments the devices and or methods of this invention may be used to modify surfaces of a substrate.

These and other aspects of the present invention will be further appreciated upon consideration of the following Examples which are intended to illustrate certain embodiments of the invention but are not to be construed as limiting in scope.

A two layer SU 8 process was used to fabricate silicon wafer masters for PDMS molding. SU 8 photoresist was spin coated onto a silicon wafer. The photoresist was exposed under ultraviolet radiation UV under a mask to yield features which when molded define a flow chamber. The first SU 8 layer 105 m thick 1600 rpm SU 8 2050 MicroChem Newton Mass. defined flow channels while the second SU 8 layer 35 m thick 2750 rpm SU 8 2035 MicroChem defined arrays of 25 and 30 m diameter posts to pattern microwell arrays into the bottom of the flow channels after molding. The resist was developed yielding a patterned SU 8 wafer.

Wafers were silanized for 24 h with tridecafluoro 1 2 2 tetrahydrooctyl 1 tricholorosilane T2492 KG United Chemical Technologies PA evaporated in a dessicator with the masters to decrease adhesion of PDMS to the master during molding. After mixing PDMS Sylgard 184 Dow Corning Mich. at a 10 1 base curing agent ratio and degassing the PDMS for 1 hour in a dessicator the PDMS was poured onto the wafer cured the PDMS for 2 h in a 65 C. convection oven and peeled the cured PDMS off of the master achieving a PDMS thickness of 2 mm. Using diamond tipped drill bits Tripple Ripple product line CR Laurence Calif. tubing ports were drilled into 1 mm thick glass slides and glued PEEK tubing 1532 Upchurch Scientific WA to the ports using epoxy High performance Epoxy 99393 Loctite Avon Ohio . After exposing the PDMS layer to oxygen plasma PDC 001 Harrick Scientific Ossining N.Y. the PDMS was bonded to the glass slide resulting in a sealed flow chamber with a microwell array patterned into the chamber floor. After bonding the chip was placed in a convection oven set to 65 C. for 12 h to accelerate PDMS hydrophobicity recovery after plasma bonding to facilitate later adsorption of bovine serum albumin BSAC . Cells were found to adhere less to BSA treated hydrophobic PDMS than to BSA treated hydrophilic PDMS suggesting that BSA adsorption might be similarly enhanced to hydrophobic PDMS.

In some embodiments of the microfluidic chip had three critical fluid connections. One connection was for loading the cell suspension one was for injecting a flushing buffer and the other was an output connection which can be toggled with a simple off chip valve. In one aspect syringe pumps drive both inputs via 4 way valves V 101D Upchurch Scientific which allowed for switching between the syringe pump medium and another fluid ethanol as illustrated in a bubble free manner. An injection valve V 451 Upchurch Scientific with a 100 L PEEK sample loop was used to inject cell suspensions into the device.

All experiments utilized an upright Axioplan 2 MOT Zeiss Thornwood N.Y. microscope with a computer controllable motorized stage 999000 Ludl . For fluorescence imaging an EXFO X Cite 120 fluorescence source EXFO Photonic Solutions Inc. Richardson Tex. Chroma 41001 FITC 41007a Cy3 and 31004 Texas Red fluorescence filter sets Chroma Technology Corp. Rockingham Vt. were used. An LaVision Imager 3 QE CCD digital camera LaVision GmbH Goettingen Germany was used for all image recording. The computer controllable laser diode system utilized a 980 nm fiber coupled semiconductor diode laser 3CN00283AL Avanex Fremont Calif. capable of outputting up to 290 mW of single mode output power. A butterfly package holder LM14S2 Thorlabs Newton N.J. interfaced with the diode and laser output levels were controllable using a laser diode thermoelectric cooler LD TEC controller LDTC 2 2 Wavelength Electronics Bozeman Mont. . The LD TEC controller was controlled remotely through a USB interfaced A D and D A converter USB 1408 FS Measurement Computing Norton Mass. via the MatLab Data Acquisition Toolbox MathWorks Natick Mass. .

A simple cage mounted collimation focusing apparatus allowed simple incorporation of the fiber coupled laser into the microscope. The assembly was positioned underneath the microscope stage using optomechanics mounted on switchable magnetic bases for straightforward insertion and removal of the laser. To collimate and focus the beam identical 0.15 NA aspheric lenses C280TM B Thorlabs were used. During laser exposures microscope components were protected from IR damage by using a filter cube with 3 mm thick KG5 glass in the fluorescence excitation and emission paths Chroma Technology and 2 mm thick KG5 glass in two filter sliders leading to the light sources . Eyepiece transmission was shut off during laser exposures and a 20 Achroplan objective 440040 Zeiss was used for all imaging during laser exposure. The switcher in the dual video output tube of the microscope diverted imaging from the LaVision CCD to a Bullet CCD connected to a television during laser exposures whose visualization was desired protecting the LaVision CCD. When recording videos the Bullet CCD was replaced with a FireWire CCD Fire i 400 Unibrain San Ramon Calif. again in the interest of protecting the LaVision CCD from damage.

MatLab was utilized to create software allowing the simultaneous interfacing of the laser microscope and motorized stage. The software facilitated automatic scanning over the microwell array and recording of multi wavelength fluorescence brightfield images of the entire array. The software also facilitated rapid image based inspection of individual array sites and easy marking of sites of interest. Subsequently the software generated a list of marked sites and allowed for rapid automatic return to those sites for removal of target cells. The software isolated the user from bookkeeping and registration of large arrays. The interface allowed for natural extension of the software to incorporate automatic image based selection of cells of interest through image algorithms.

Prior to all experiments the output valve was opened and an ethanol mixture 80 ethanol 20 de ionized water was flowed into both inputs to facilitate device filling and sterilization. After closing the output path the microwells were degassed by applying pressure to both input syringes driving bubbles in the microwells out through the PDMS. After filling the device the output was opened and the device flushed with phosphate buffered saline PBS 14190 Gibco Carlsbad Calif. . 75 mg mL bovine serum albumin BSA fraction V solution prepared in PBS 15260 Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. was then flowed into the cell injection path and filled the device. The BSA remained in the chamber at room temperature for 1 h to adsorb to the PDMS surface to help block cell adhesion in the subsequent experiment. Afterwards the chamber was flushed with PBS.

Cell incubation conditions were 37 C. 7.5 CO in a humidified atmosphere. Cultured BA F3 pro B cells and WeHi 3B myelomonocytic leukemia cells Whitehead Institute Cambridge Mass. were used. B cell culture medium was RPMI 1640 21870 Gibco supplemented with 10 v v fetal bovine serum FBS SH30088.03 Hyclone Logan Utah 2 v v L glutamine 25030 Gibco 1 v v penicillin streptomycin 15140 Gibco and 10 v v WeHi 3B conditioned medium. Leukemia cell medium was Iscove s modified Dulbecco s medium IMDM 12440 Gibco supplemented with 10 v v FBS 1 v v penicillin streptomycin and 25 M 2 mercaptoethanol 21985 Gibco . WeHi 3B conditioned media was prepared by collecting media from WeHi 3B cells grown in T75 flasks 3 days after seeding spinning media down at 1000 rpm for 7 minutes and collecting the supernatant. After collection the media was filtered through a 0.2 m vacuum filter bottle aliquotted the media and stored at 20 C. for future use in B cell culture.

Two lines of MCF7 epithelial breast cancer cells were cultured one of which was transfected with a construct expressing the red fluorescent protein mCherryfused to the mouse ornithine decarboxylase PEST sequence and three copies of the SV40 large T antigene nuclear localization sequence NLS under the control of the p21 promoter. Selection with blasticidin established a stable clonal cell line. A second line was not transfected. MCF7 culture medium for the non transfected line was RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 v v FBS 1 v v L glutamine and 1 v v penicillin streptomycin. Culture medium for the transfected cell line additionally contained 5 g mL blasticidin ant b1 1 InvivoGen San Diego Calif. .

For experiments using CellTracker dyes either CellTracker Green CMFDA C7025 Invitrogen or CellTracker Orange CMRA C34551 Invitrogen were used at concentrations of 5 10 M and stained per product datasheet unless noted otherwise. Prior to injection into the device cells were re suspended in standard culture medium at total cell concentrations of 1 10 10cells mL. HL 60 cells were similarly stained.

For whole cell fluorescence sorting a majority of cells with CellTracker Green and a minority with CellTracker Orange in a ratio of 50 1 to demonstrate the removal of rare cells from a background population. The two populations were mixed before injection into the device. For localization based sorting a non transfected population of MCF7 cells was double stained with CellTracker Green 2.4 M and CellTracker Orange 0.4 M staining the entire cell. The double stained population was mixed with a population of transfected MCF7 cells expressing nuclear confined mCherry fluorescence. The low concentration of CellTracker Orange was used to roughly match the mCherry fluorescence levels in the transfected cells for demonstration purposes. Alternatively a single population of HL 60 cells in 20 mL of bovine calf serum containing HL 60 media in a cell culture dish for 15 minutes with Hoechst added to a final concentration of 5 g mL Hoechst 33258 Molecular Probes to stain the nuclei of the cells. All cells were washed in Dulbecco s phosphate buffered saline PBS Gibco .

A fraction of cells was placed in a culture dish containing PBS while remaining cells were placed in a culture dish containing bovine calf serum containing HL 60 media. Concanavalin A Con A Alex Fluor 488 conjugate Invitrogen was added to the cells in the PBS containing dish to achieve a final concentration of 50 g mL. The Con A staining was preferentially confined to the membrane. The cells were incubated for 20 minutes. The Con A stained cells were washed twice in PBS and recombined with the cell population stained solely with Hoechst yielding a mixture of nuclear and nuclear membrane stained cells. The two populations were recombined in fresh bovine calf serum containing HL 60 media until injection into the device.

HL 60 cells were applied to the sorting device in concentrations of approximately 1 10 mL in bovine calf serum containing HL 60 media and cells were distributed within the wells of the device. Prior to injection with cells PBS was injected into the device to flush it ethanol injections followed for cleaning the device and then rinses were conducted with additional PBS. 7.5 bovine serum albumin BSA Invitrogen in PBS was injected into the chamber and incubated for 45 minutes at 37 C. to minimize HL 60 adherence to the PDMS. The device was flushed with PBS in order to clear cells outside wells via flow. PBS was left in the chamber during fluorescence imaging in order to reduce background fluorescence levels.

Cells were imaged by fluorescence microscopy technique to locate cells of interest. A 514 nm argon laser power levels between 100 180 mW was coupled to the device and the beam was focused onto individual wells through a 10 objective Edmund Optics with a nominal numerical aperture NA of 0.25 though the focused beam NA was approximately 0.08 0.1 to produce a spot size roughly equivalent to size of the HL 60 cells which were approximately 8 10 m in diameter. Beam diameters larger than the target waste power as power would not be incident on the target and beam diameters smaller than the target produce smaller net pushing forces due to optical gradient forces opposing the pushing of the target. Additionally spot sizes smaller than the target produce unnecessarily high local intensity spots potentially damaging cells. Upon focusing by the laser beam targeted cells were levitated out of their wells by the optical scattering force. After levitation of a target cell the laser was turned off and the levitated cell was removed by the flow field at a flow velocity of approximately 200 m s for downstream collection.

Alternatively cells were injected into a 100 L sample loop via the injection port valve assembly and the cell suspension was pumped into the device at a flow rate of 100 L min with the syringe pump. After the cell suspension filled the device flow was stopped for 5 min. allowing cells to sediment into the wells. Fresh media was pumped through the second syringe pump into the purging input of the device at 20 L min removing cells residing outside the microwell array. Using the second input to provide the purging media avoided introduction of residual cells still in tubing leading to the cell loading input. Software developed for this purpose as described above was used to scan the entire array inspect and mark individual sites and return to specific sites to remove cells using the laser. During removal a flow rate of 5 L min was used and 100 mW of laser power was applied to each cell until the cell was levitated high enough that the flow displaced the cell and carried it downstream.

A microfluidic chamber comprising a PDMS well array was constructed as outlined in . One embodiment of a packaging scheme of the constructed device is schematically depicted in . The chip can be coupled to a detection analysis apparatus for example a fluorescence microscope and CCD camera and optical sorting module the laser as schematically depicted in and an embodiment of a layout of the microfluidic network and interface is depicted in .

Passive cell loading via sedimentation and subsequent flushing deposits single cells or a desired number of cells in individual wells . The number of cells deposited can be fixed or random and in some embodiments is biased by controlling cell concentration and well size.

Such a setup can provide for visualizing cells using any desired microscopy technique such as for example phase contrast microscopy or fluorescence microscopy or others and positions of cells of interest are noted. Cells whose removal from the device is desired can be removed via application of an optical scattering force by focusing the laser onto the particular cell resulting in the cell s egress into the flow .

According to this embodiment of the invention the focusing of the laser into a low divergence shape results in gradient forces that are significant in the lateral direction but miniscule in the axial direction. In this case the radiation pressure induced onto the cell by photon scattering is greater than the axial gradient force. Therefore when the beam is focused onto a cell the lateral gradient force quickly translates the cell to the lateral beam center and the scattering force causes the cell to levitate axially.

In some embodiments such cellular manipulation offers advantages over traditional optical tweezers. For example while many high numerical aperture lenses used for 3 D optical trapping must be used through substrates of specified usually thin thickness and have short working distances the low divergence of the beam allows for longer working distances and actuation ease is much less sensitive to substrate thickness. In the embodiment described hereinabove the beam was readily focused through a 2 mm PDMS substrate whose thickness varied throughout the device and achieved adequate actuation. Another example of an advantage to the devices described herein is that the focused spot sizes are larger than those typically used in optical tweezers applications which can lower peak optical intensities and thus mitigate cell damage. Selective levitation of a single cell from a microwell without perturbing cells in neighboring wells was readily accomplished for example as demonstrated in the following example.

In one embodiment of such a device the optical intensity and energy density levels applied to the cells are orders of magnitude below those found harmful in conventional high numerical aperture optical tweezers and thus such approach is unlikely to damage the applied cells.

A microfluidic chamber as described in Example 1 was loaded with fluorescently tagged HL 60 cells. Orange and green labeled HL60 cells were randomly applied to the device and the cells were imaged under phase contrast microscopy and fluorescence microscopy to determine respective placement of green versus orange cells in particular wells . Application of the laser to individual wells under flow conditions enabled the specific removal of orange labeled cells.

The actual process of cell removal has two qualitative phases first after the laser is focused onto the cell the gradient force in the lateral beam dimension quickly drags the cell laterally into the beam center. Next the scattering force overwhelms gravity and the small axial gradient force and the cell is levitated up into the flow field. As the cell is levitated away from the laser focus the local intensity and lateral gradient force drop due to beam divergence and eventually Stokes drag from the fluid flow overcomes the lateral gradient force releasing the cell into the flow stream . A single cell can in general even be removed selectively from a well with multiple cells a testament to the tight localization of the optical force.

Another sort was conducted using nuclear stained and membrane stained cells . Membrane stained cells were identified via fluorescence and phase contrast microscopy yellow circles in A panels and sorted as above from cells with exclusively nuclear staining. This demonstrates image based sorting based upon localization an assay that cannot be performed using flow cytometry.

While whole cell fluorescence based sorting has been conducted by other means known in the art an image based approach to whole cell fluorescence based sorting could allow sorting based on single cell fluorescence levels monitored over time which to date is not accomplished in a straightforward manner.

To pursue this it was desirable an image thousands of single cells and release single target cells from their trap sites based on whole cell fluorescence. After loading the microwell array with a 50 1 ratio of CellTracker Green CellTracker Orange labeled cells the entire array was scanned under brightfield and fluorescence illumination and the images were inspected to determine the location of orange labeled cells. Array sites containing orange labeled cells were noted buffer flow was re instated and orange labeled cells were selectively levitated into the flow field for removal circled cells . The process of releasing a cell in some embodiments takes about 18 45 seconds with selecting and scanning to an array site aligning the laser to the cell and levitating and releasing a cell taking about 10 seconds 5 seconds and 3 30 seconds respectively. Attempting removal of 60 70 cells per hour is feasible which is an embodiment of this invention for useful throughput in applications where 10 s to 100 rare cells are desired. The results obtained herein demonstrate that a more than 10 000 site array can be iteratively imaged using fluorescence to predicate single cell sorting decisions.

FACS cannot resolve localization of a fluorophore within a cell. Such localization can be important when studying translocation events of proteins within cells or protein localization among other applications. To demonstrate a sort predicated on fluorescence localization a mixed population of MCF7 cells exhibiting nuclear fluorescence and MCF7 cells double stained with CellTracker Orange and Green which exhibited diffuse whole cell fluorescence was imaged and sorted . The green double stain served to demonstrate sorting verification. Selective removal of the nuclear fluorescent cells was achieved for this experiment despite the fact that the diffuse fluorescent signal was spectrally indistinguishable from the nuclear signal. A slightly higher power 150 mW was utilized to image these cells as they were slightly larger in comparison to BA F3 cells although the short removal times for the two cells 6 s and 12 s suggest that they could have also been removed with a typical exposure of 100 mW for 20 30 s. Thus spatial and temporal fluorescence information can be obtained from multiple channels with any other image data i.e. brightfield images as shown in to allow sorting of cells based on phenotypes far more complex than is practical or possible with FACS.

The beam was focused so that the beam waist was roughly equal to the cell diameter 9 m . In some embodiments a choice is made not to use a larger beam waist in that in some circumstances it may waste power e.g. with photons missing the cell. In some embodiments a choice is made not to use a smaller beam waist in order to avoid high local intensities and increase the axial gradient force which in some embodiments competes against the levitating scattering force.

In some embodiments levitation and release of a cell from a well takes about 15 20 seconds or in some embodiments from about 3 to 30 seconds. In some embodiments variations in cell size and shape affect the timing of levitation and release of a cell from a well.

In some embodiments as the cell diameter approaches the well diameter Stokes drag wall effects become more significant leading to longer removal times for larger cells in the population.

In some embodiments quickest removal is of significantly aspheric cells such as those undergoing mitosis as their asymmetry makes them easier to remove via the fluid flow after they are levitated slightly.

In some embodiments removal efficiency may be determined which in some embodiments represents the percentage of cells successfully removed from a well out of the total number of cells for which removal was attempted. In some embodiments such efficiency may vary between 25 and 100 depending on the well dimensions used.

In some embodiments as exemplified herein 100 removal efficiency was achieved by using wells 30 m in diameter and 35 m in depth.

The methods devices apparatuses of this invention allow for straightforward image based inspection and sorting of thousands of cells. The methods devices apparatuses of this invention allow for simple scalability to large sizes with minimal additional complexity. Sorting of cells from a functional 10 000 site array was shown feasible herein and fabricating larger arrays is trivial.

A limitation of further scaling may be array inspection speed and image processing time to make sorting decisions which in turn may be improved upon depending upon the sorting decisions required and other parameters as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. In some embodiments data mining is readily accomplished possibly constrained by similar considerations for any existing array based method inspection and data processing time rather than by the specific technology used.

Array inspection time ultimately dictates the temporal resolution of assays. Exemplified herein is the visualization of a 10 000 site array under brightfield illumination and two fluorescence wavelengths in about 25 minutes when using a 10 objective lens. Faster image based screening can be readily obtained in specific types of assays with minor modifications.

In temporal whole cell fluorescence applications where total cell fluorescence signal is the critical information to capture simply placing a 0.5 de magnifier before the CCD while using the same 10 objective lens could reduce this time by a factor of 4. Wells could likely be packed more densely reducing the center to center distance between 30 m diameter wells from 65 m to 45 m would double the area density of trapped cells. With these two simple changes we could achieve an eightfold increase in sampling rate for a given number of cells yielding a 3 minute inspection time for a 10 000 site array. Using a larger CCD could further increase the rate.

Cell removal is currently simple and straightforward software stores locations of target cells and scans the automated stage back to target sites for removal automatically. Automating fine laser alignment which is now done manually immediately before cell release would quicken release by 5 7 s per site. Using slightly higher laser powers briefly to overcome surface interactions may also quicken cell release by a few seconds. The most dramatic improvements could be made by incorporating multiple beams allowing quasi parallel release. For instance we could use a four beam system with 125 mW beams and independently steer the beams via mirrors. This off chip complexity is easily abstracted from the user and provides a realistic avenue for scale up in release. These two changes could reduce the average total removal time per cell to 10 s making removal of 100 300 cells per hour practical independent of the type of imaging assay employed. In addition microwells need not be arranged in a grid like fashion for large array type experiments microwell traps could be positioned throughout a substrate to enable addressable retrieval of particular cells in arbitrary alternative experiments. The technique generalizes easily to any application where the goal is to position cells in an environment observe them using microscopy and later retrieve particular cells.

The simplicity of the optical system depicted herein allowed for straightforward incorporation into widely used microscopes.

Cell viability and potential for cell damage is a point of concern when using any cell manipulation technique. Use of a weakly focused 980 nm beam for up to 30 s at power levels of 100 mW for cell manipulation is considerably gentler than parameters in many optical tweezers applications where the beam is focused to micron sized spots sometimes at power levels up to 1 W for longer durations. Considerable effort has been made to determine cell damage thresholds for optical manipulation. Studies have considered metrics including post exposure clonability motility DNA damage and viability and the methods devices apparatuses for cell sorting can be compared utilizing existing methods versus those of this invention Liang H. et al. Biophys J 1996 70 1529 1533 Neuman K. C. et al. Biophys J 1999 77 2856 2863 Liu Y. et al. J. Biophys J 1996 71 2158 2167 Mohanty S. K. et al Radiation Research 2002 157 378 385 Wang M. M. et al. Nature Biotechnology 2005 23 83 87 . Table 1 presents various parameters at onset of cell damage reported previously and those obtained using an embodied device of this invention.

These health studies did not explicitly separate thermal damage effects from strictly photon damage effects. This is largely because in general heating due to optical tweezers is influenced heavily by absorption of the trapping medium and typical temperature rises in water have been reported between 1 10 K 100 mW optical power with the lower end of the range reported for cell manipulation.

The large spot size used in the methods devices apparatuses of this invention result in power and energy densities orders of magnitude lower than reported damage thresholds. Further three of the examples in Table 1 use wavelengths of 1064 nm. Liang et al. showed that the 990 nm wavelength is considerably less harmful than 1064 nm so damage thresholds from Liu and Mohanty may be more pessimistic than those possible at 980 nm. Therefore the methods devices apparatuses of this invention provide for healthy viable cell sorting

