---

title: Direct synthesis of calcium borohydride
abstract: A method is disclosed for directly preparing an alkaline earth metal borohydride, i.e. Ca(BH), from the alkaline earth metal hydride and the alkaline earth metal boride. The borohydride thus prepared is doped with a small portion of a metal chloride catalyst compound, such as RuCl, TiCl, or a mixture of TiCland palladium metal. The process provides for mechanically mixing the dry reagents under an inert atmosphere followed by charging the mixed materials with high pressure hydrogen at about 70 MPa while heating the mixture to about 400° C. The method is relatively simple and inexpensive and provides reversible hydride compounds which are free of the usual contamination introduced by prior art wet chemical methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07608233&OS=07608233&RS=07608233
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07608233
owner_city: Livermore
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070524
---
This application claims priority to prior provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 901 248 originally filed Feb. 12 2007 entitled SOLID STATE SYNTHESIS OF CALCIUM BOROHYDRIDE AND ITS USE FOR REVERSIBLE HYDROGEN STORAGE from which benefit is claimed.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 between the United States Department of Energy and Sandia Corporation for the operation of the Sandia National Laboratories.

This invention relates to a method direct synthesis of metal borohydride compounds. More particularly this present invention relates to a method for directly producing a calcium borohydride.

As the cost of energy continues to soar increasing interest is directed toward the development of new sources of fuels. The continuing and ever increasing consumption of fossil resources is of particular concern due both to the consequences of increased global demand for dwindling reserves of easily obtained petroleum oil and the continuing and growing threat of global warming. In particular the amount of petroleum oil refined and burned as gasoline in order to fuel automobiles in this country and the amount of natural gas coal and petroleum fuel for central electric power generating stations continues to increase with no end in sight. An alternative fuel for either or both of these applications is especially desired in view of the amounts of resources consumed and the amount of greenhouse gases generated annually as a result of converting these fuels into energy through combustion.

One possible and very attractive alternative fuel is hydrogen since it produces only water vapor as a byproduct when burned. However storage of hydrogen for automotive applications is problematic. Storage of hydrogen as a metal hydride has been extensively investigated for at least the last 40 years. Unfortunately because of thermodynamic and kinetic constraints the essential properties needed for a hydride storage material high hydrogen capacity low reaction enthalpy reversibility and low desorption temperature are very difficult to satisfy simultaneously.

Simple binary hydride compounds such magnesium hydride MgH have been shown promise in that it exhibits good hydrogen reversibility fast reaction kinetics and a relatively high hydrogen capacity 7.6 wt . Unfortunately MgHreaches a hydrogen equilibrium pressure of 1 bar at a temperature of 300 C. a temperature well above what is believed to be an operating temperature upper limit of about 120 C. for automobile applications.

In order to overcome this shortcoming several complex metal hydride compounds have been investigated including materials known as alanates. Moreover borohydride compounds particularly calcium borohydride are being investigated for their utility to reversibly store and release hydrogen on demand. Unfortunately reasonably pure calcium borohydride is not easily prepared. Several of the accepted prior art methods include using diborane BH gas see U.S. Pat. Nos. 2 545 633 and 3 224 832 a potentially dangerous material due to its ability to spontaneously ignite in moist air and as a causative agent for respiratory distress. Current methods appear to utilize sodium borohydride and calcium chloride as precursor materials L. V. Titov Synthesis of calcium borohydride 1969 v. 13 7 pp. 1797 1800 

In an embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for preparing an alkaline earth metal borohydride in a three step process for direct synthesis of an alkaline earth metal borohydride.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention there is provided a method of producing an alkaline earth borohydride comprising mechanically milling and compacting powders of a metal boride powder with an alkaline earth metal hydride followed by high pressure hydrogenation.

In another aspect of this invention there is provided a method for preparing an alkaline earth metal borohydride wherein the first step comprises mechanical milling powders of the precursor materials the second comprises mechanically compacting the milled powders and the third step comprises high pressure hydrogenation of the compacted powders at an elevated temperature.

In a further aspect of this invention the first step of the method is performed with dry powders i.e. without a solvent or any other suspension aid in a dry inert atmosphere such as argon. The method is further accomplished by subjecting the reagent materials to a milling means that consists of a ball mill a plate or impact grinder a blade rod or whisk mixer blender or agitator.

In still another aspect of the invention the second step comprises compacting the milled powders into a pressed pellet.

In yet another aspect of the invention the third step comprises exposing pressed pellets to high pressure hydrogen gas at a temperature above about 400 C.

In another aspect of this invention there is provided a method of producing an alkaline earth metal borohydride comprising mechanically milling powders of a metal boride powder with an alkaline earth metal hydride and a metal chloride catalyst compound.

In a particular embodiment of the invention the synthesis of alkaline earth borohydrides comprises mixing powders of a simple alkaline earth metal hydride e.g. CaH with the equivalent alkaline earth boride e.g. CaB in a roughly 1 2 molar ratio of the hydride to the boride. A small amount of metal chloride compound typically TiCl RuCl or a mixture of palladium metal and TiCl is added to this mixture which is then ball milled under an inert atmosphere. While not attempted other inert dry gases such as helium are also believed to be effective . Milling is carried out at or near room temperature.

After milling the mixed powders are compacted in the hydraulic press and formed into one or more pellets which are then placed in a commercial stainless steel autoclave and the vessel purged and filled with hydrogen and heated in order to initiate a reaction to provide the borohydride.

By way of example the powders of the present invention were milled in a high energy ball mill such as are available from SPEX CertiPrep Inc. 203 Norcross Avenue Metuchen N.J. 08840 . A SPEX 8000 series mixer miller using tungsten carbide balls and operated at a weight ratio of powders to mill balls of about 1 9 was found to be suitable. A single batch of mixed powders comprised about 3 grams of material per run.

The powders were milled at near room temperature under high purity argon gas atmosphere. After milling the powder was transferred into an argon filled glove box and then into a mold assembly and the powders pressed into pellets. The pressed pellets were then transferred to a stainless steel commercial autoclave type vessel and exposed to high purity 99.999 hydrogen gas pressurized to several hundred atmospheres while the autoclave vessel and its contents are heated externally with electrical tape. Pressure measurements were taken using a calibrated pressure transducer for the absorption half cycle and or a calibrated capacitance manometer for the desorption half cycle. Data was recorded with a computer.

Calcium borohydride was produced by combining 1.58 grams of CaBwith 1.26 grams of CaHpowder molar ratio of 1.0 2.0 and about 0.16 grams or ca. 4w 0 of RuClcatalyst. This mixture was mechanically milled in a tungsten carbide lined steel vial with several tungsten carbide balls in a SPEX mill SPEX 8000 packed at a powder to ball weight ratio of about 1 9. The process was carried out at room temperature and under an argon atmosphere. The mixture of powders was milled for about 30 minutes.

The mixture is milled under a dry argon atmosphere. After milling the milled powder was transferred into a stainless steel punch and die assembly and formed into pellets. Powder compacting was done using a CARVER LABORATORY PRESS or any similar bench type hydraulic press having a gauge clamping force of about 1 ton. The pellets were then placed into an AE Closure Pressure Vessel manufactured by the Autoclave Engineers Fluid Component Division of Snap Tite Inc. Erie Pa. having an internal volume of about 100 cm. Once sealed in the vessel the pellets were exposed to high purity 99.999 hydrogen gas and pressurized to between about 80 atm and about 100 atm after which the vessel and its contents were heated externally to about 400 C. 440 C. to initiate the reaction CaB 2CaH 4 8 wt catalyst 10H 3Ca BH . 1 

The pellets were heated to 400 C. in a hydrogen atmosphere of 70 MPa 700 bar Hpressure in a commercial autoclave and the pellet changes color from brown to grey during the reaction. Heating continued for up to 48 hours. Pressure measurements were taken by using a calibrated pressure transducer for the absorption half cycle and a calibrated BARATRON type capacitance manometer for the desorption half cycle. Data was recorded with a computer.

A Raman spectrum of the synthesized powders is shown in . The Raman peak we observe at 2300 cmis in agreement with values of the BH symmetric stretching mode in Na K Rb and Cs borohydrides as shown by G. Renaudin et al. Structural and spectroscopic studies on the alkali borohydrides MBH M Na K Rb Cs . v. 375 2004 pp. 98 106 . In these materials the BHsymmetric stretch vibrations were found to appear between 2250 cmand 2400 cm. The observed Raman peak at 2300 cmfor the compound of the present embodiment is also in accordance with the values calculated by K. Miwa et al. Thermodynamical stability of calcium borohydride Ca BH v. 74 2006 pp. 155122 1 155122 5 for the Ca BH structure.

The sample of prepared calcium borohydride was analyzed by thermogravimetric analysis TGA and differential scanning calorimetry DSC . shows both a DSC curve and a TGA curve for a composition similar to the X ray diffraction pattern in . More particularly the DSC curve in shows two endothermic phase transitions at 140 C. and 350 C. while the TGA curve shows a weight loss at 350 C. presumed to be most likely related to hydrogen release from calcium borohydride since calcium hydride decomposes at higher temperatures. In order to verify this assumption we collected X ray diffraction data at two points in the curve at 150 C. and at 400 C. It was found that at 150 C. the X ray diffraction pattern is similar to the starting sample. However at 400 C. the X ray diffraction pattern corresponds to CaBand CaHwithout Ca BH present. Thus upon release of hydrogen calcium borohydride has completely decomposed to form CaBand CaH i.e. the reverse of above formula I which we know now is the starting mixture to synthesize calcium borohydride at 70 MPa and 440 C. Furthermore above reaction formula in b is at least close to fully reversible at the described reaction conditions. Thus this material can be used as a reversible hydrogen storage material for on board storage if using a commercially available high pressure tank 70 MPa .

Therefore a new and novel method for the preparation of complex alkaline earth metal borohydride compounds has been demonstrated. To the extent necessary to understand or complete the disclosure of the present embodiment of the invention all publications patents and patent applications mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference therein to the same extent as though each were individually so incorporated.

Having thus described exemplary embodiments of the present invention it should be noted by those skilled in the art that the disclosures herein are exemplary only and that various other alternatives adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments as illustrated herein but is only limited by the following claims.

