---

title: Electromagnetically detecting thin resistive bodies in shallow water and terrestrial environments
abstract: A technique includes using a first sensor to perform a first electromagnetic field measurement to obtain first data, which is indicative of the presence of a resistive body. The first data is relatively sensitive to an effect that is caused by an air layer boundary. The technique includes using a second sensor to perform a second electromagnetic field measurement to obtain second data, which is indicative of the presence of the resistive body. The second data is relatively sensitive to the effect, and the first and second sensors are either both magnetic field sensors or both electric field sensors. The technique includes combining the first and second data to generate third data, which is relatively insensitive to the effect and is indicative of the presence of the resistive body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07860655&OS=07860655&RS=07860655
owner: WesternGeco L.L.C.
number: 07860655
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070718
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 457 623 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 657 391 entitled ELECTROMAGNETICALLY DETECTING THIN RESISTIVE BODIES IN SHALLOW WATER AND TERRESTRIAL ENVIRONMENTS which was filed on Jul. 14 2006 and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention generally relates to electromagnetically detecting thin resistive bodies in shallow water and terrestrial environments.

One technique to locate an oil reservoir beneath the sea floor is to measure electromagnetic fields that are produced by a controlled electromagnetic source. More specifically in a technique called controlled source electromagnetic CSEM surveying an electrical dipole i.e. a controlled electromagnetic source may be towed by a surface vessel a short distance above the sea floor. Measurements of the resulting electric and or magnetic fields are then measured using receivers which may be deployed for example on the sea floor. Ideally the presence of a thin resistive layer such as an oil reservoir affects the measured electric and magnetic fields in a way that can be detected from the measured data.

CSEM surveying typically is limited to deep water as a phenomenon called an air wave effect as referred to in the literature currently limits the use of CSEM surveying in shallow water environments. More specifically the electromagnetic fields that are produced by the electric dipole interact with the air sea interface to generate electromagnetic energy or air waves which diffuse from the sea surface down to the receiver. For shallow water the air waves dominate the measured electromagnetic data so that the presence of a thin resistive body may not be readily discernible from the data. Similar challenges limit the application of CSEM surveying to terrestrial environments.

Thus there is a continuing need for better ways to process data that is generated by controlled source electromagnetic surveying in shallow water and terrestrial environments.

In an embodiment of the invention a technique includes using a first sensor to perform a first electromagnetic field measurement to obtain first data which is indicative of the presence of a resistive body. The first data is relatively sensitive to an effect that is caused by an air layer boundary. The technique includes using a second sensor to perform a second electromagnetic field measurement to obtain second data which is indicative of the presence of the resistive body. The second data is relatively sensitive to the effect and the first and second sensors are either both magnetic field sensors or both electric field sensors. The technique includes combining the first and second data to generate third data which is relatively insensitive to the effect and is indicative of the presence of the resistive body.

Advantages and other features of the invention will become apparent from the following drawing description and claims.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention a system that is depicted in may be used for purposes of performing a controlled source electromagnetic CSEM survey in relatively shallow water. The survey is useful for locating a thin resistive body such as the exemplary resistive body that is depicted in . The survey uses a controlled towed electromagnetic dipole which may be towed from a surface ship for example. In general the electric dipole generates electromagnetic fields which are measured using receivers one receiver being depicted in that are located on a seabed floor . The resistive body generally produces stronger electric fields with increasing source receiver offset than if the resistive body is absent. Thus the electric field that is measured via the CSEM survey may be used as an indicator for purposes of locating thin resistive bodies such as hydrocarbon reservoirs gas reservoirs water aquifers etc.

A potential challenge associated with CSEM surveying is that relatively shallow water may produce an air wave effect due to a boundary between the sea surface and the air. A similar effect exists when the CSEM survey is conducted in a terrestrial environment. To desensitize the measured data to the air wave effect in accordance with some embodiments of the invention described herein two sets of measurements are collected using different survey configurations. These measurements are then combined to produce a set of measurement data which is relatively insensitive to the air wave effect.

More specifically referring to in accordance with some embodiments of the invention a CSEM survey technique includes performing first electromagnetic field measurements to obtain a first set of data which is relatively sensitive to the air wave effect and is relatively insensitive to resistive bodies pursuant to block . Next pursuant to the technique second electromagnetic field measurements are performed block to obtain a second set of data which is relatively sensitive to the air wave effect and is also relatively sensitive to resistive bodies. Thus both sets of measurements are sensitive to the air wave effect and only the second set of data is sensitive to resistive bodies.

Because both sets of measurements are sensitive to the air wave effect the first and second sets of data may be combined block in a way that effectively cancels out the air wave effect. This combination described further below generates a third set of data which is insensitive to the air wave effect and is sensitive to resistive bodies. Thus measurement based data is created which has an enhanced sensitivity to the resistive bodies.

Referring back to to perform a CSEM survey the electric dipole is towed at a depth z below the sea surface . A particular receiver such as the depicted receiver may be located at a depth h below the sea surface and may be separated from the electric dipole by a distance R. Given the parameters described above the electric and magnetic fields at the receiver may be approximately expressed as follows Eq. 1 where P represents a direct field response at the receiver which is produced by the electric dipole . It is assumed that the direct field is produced in a medium of uniform conductivity corresponding to that of the earth. Here the sea water has a uniform conductivity of and P represents a modified image term which is conceptually generated by a second electric dipole source also located in a earth of uniform conductivity but is positioned a distance approximately equal to 2z above the true electric dipole source . The term L in Eq. 1 represents the air effect or the lateral electromagnetic field which is attenuated as it travels straight upward from the source to the air sea water interface travels laterally along the interface with the amplitude decreasing only through geometrical spreading and then is attenuated as it travels down from the air sea water interface to the receiver . Thus the component L in Eq. 1 represents the air wave effect which may dominate and thus obscure the measured electric or magnetic fields if not for the techniques that are discussed herein.

For purpose of removing the air wave effect from the measured data or at least substantially diminishing the impact of the air wave effect in accordance with some embodiments of the invention two sets of electromagnetic field measurements that derived with different polarizations are combined. More specifically in accordance with some embodiments of the invention two CSEM surveys are performed using two different survey configurations an inline survey configuration in which the electric dipole is in line with the receiver and other such receivers and a broadside or crossline survey configuration in which the electric dipole is orthogonal with respect to the orientation of the receiver and other such receivers . As described further below the inline survey configuration is relatively sensitive both to resistive bodies and to the air wave effect while the crossline survey configuration is also relatively sensitive to the air wave effect but is relatively insensitive to resistive bodies. Therefore in accordance with some embodiments of the invention the electric fields or alternatively the magnetic fields if magnetic field measurements are used that are measured via the crossline configuration are subtracted from the electric fields that are measured via the inline configuration to derive electric fields that are relatively more sensitive to the resistive bodies and relatively less sensitive to the air wave effect as compared to the electric fields derived from the inline or crossline configuration only .

Turning now to the more specific details the inline survey configuration measures a lateral wave L which has the following form 

It is noted that Eqs. 2 3 and 4 depict the lateral waves Land Lwhen electric fields are measured. However magnetic fields may also be measured and processed in a similar manner in accordance with other embodiments of the invention.

As can be seen from comparing Eq. 2 to Eq. 4 the crossline lateral wave Lis twice as large as the inline lateral wave L. This result coupled with the fact that the inline configuration is sensitive to thin resistive bodies while the crossline configuration is not gives rise to the result that the reservoir response may be enhanced by multiplying the measured inline response by two and subtracting off the measured broadside response. Thus the resultant electromagnetic field called E below may be derived as follows 2 Eq. 5 where E represents the measured inline electric field and E represents the measured crossline electric field. Therefore the computed Eelectromagnetic field magnitude may be used as an indicator for resistive bodies such as oil reservoirs gas reservoirs and high quality fresh water aquifers as just a few examples.

Referring to to summarize in accordance with some embodiments of the invention a CSEM survey based technique may generally be used to produce electric field data which is sensitive to resistive bodies and relatively de sensitive to the air wave effect. Pursuant to the technique inline CSEM survey measurements are performed block to obtain inline electric field measurements and crossline CSEM survey measurements are also performed block to obtain crossline electric field measurements. The crossline electric field measurements are then subtracted block from the inline electric field measurements after the inline electric field measurements are multiplied by two to generate a calculated electric field that is not generally not sensitive to the air wave effect.

The technique is relatively more accurate if the two data sets with different polarizations are obtained such that the measurements occupy the same position simultaneously. However if the two data sets are collected at different times then the technique may be susceptible to positioning errors. Orientation uncertainties in both the source and the receiver may introduce additional error.

One technique for reducing the errors attributable to positioning and rotation is to calculate the impedance which is defined as the ratio between orthogonal components of the measured electric and magnetic fields. Assuming the orientations for the y and x axes which are depicted in and inline impedance Zmay be described as follows Eq. 6 where E represents the component of the electric field which was measured in the x direction in the inline survey configuration and H represents the magnitude of the magnetic field in the y direction which was obtained in the inline survey configuration.

A crossline impedance Zmay be described as follows Eq. 7 wherein E represents the y component of the electric field measured in the crossline survey configuration and H represents the x component of the magnetic field measured in the crossline survey configuration.

Positioning errors may further be minimized by rotating the electric and magnetic field data prior to calculation of the impedance to the minimum and maximum of the polarization ellipses.

After the Zand Zimpedances are calculated a difference impedance called Z may be computed as follows . Eq. 8 Note that in the impedance calculation the factor of two is dropped out due to the normalization effect of the impedance. The Zimpedance may thus be used as an indicator of a resistive body.

Referring to to summarize a technique that is based on impedances may be used to detect a resistive body. Pursuant to the technique inline measurements are made to obtain inline electric and magnetic field measurements pursuant to block . Next crossline measurements are performed block to obtain crossline electric and magnetic field measurements. The electric and magnetic field measurements may then be rotated pursuant to block to the minimum and maximum of the polarization ellipses. The inline block and the crossline block impedances are then determined. Subsequently the crossline impedances may be subtracted from the inline impedance to generate an impedance that is not subject to the air effect pursuant to block .

For terrestrial cases in which the both the source and receivers are on the land surface z is equal to h is equal to zero see . Under these conditions if it is assumed that both the source and the receiver are located just below the surface then the inline and crossline impedance equations reduce to the following 

In the terrestrial case although the signal reduction is entirely due to geometrical falloff the same factor of two differences between the two polarizations exists. Thus the differencing methods that are described above also may be used for land based measurements.

A simulation was conducted in a simulated marine environment for purposes of demonstrating the techniques described herein. In particular a marine model the specifics which are described in the table of includes a thirty meter water layer of electrical resistivity of 0.33 ohm m which overlays a half space of electrical resistivity of 0.7 ohm m. This constitutes the background model. The reservoir or resistor model includes a 100 meter thick resistive layer of 20 ohm m a depth of 2000 m below the seabed.

In the simulation the data was simulated for a horizontal electrical dipole source of unit moment aligned in the x and y directions operating at a frequency of 0.1 Hz located 15 meters above the seabed. Measurements of the horizontal electric and magnetic fields were taken every 500 meters along the x axis from 500 meters to 15 000 meters relative to the source.

The crossline results show no discernable difference between the background and reservoir models and the inline results demonstrate only a small difference that would be difficult to detect in field data. However the computed differences for the two models show large variations between each other. In addition these differences are well above a theoretical noise level and thus should be measurable.

Referring to in accordance with some embodiments of the invention a computer may be used for purposes of determining the above described electric fields magnetic fields impedances rotating the electric and magnetic fields displaying plots of the electric fields and or impedances etc. depending on the particular embodiment of the invention. The computer may include for example a processor one or more microprocessors or controllers as examples that is coupled to a memory of the computer . The memory may be formed partially by semiconductor memory mass storage etc. depending on the particular embodiment of the invention. The memory stores program instructions that when executed by the processor causes the computer to perform one or more of the functions that are enumerated above. In addition the memory may include data such as electric field data magnetic field data impedances etc. depending on the particular embodiment of the invention.

Other embodiments are within the scope of the appended claims. For example in accordance with some embodiments of the invention the above described survey data processing techniques such as the techniques and which are depicted in and may be used in conjunction with deep water i.e. a water depth in the range of one to three kilometers for example surveying where the source and receivers have relative large offsets offsets in the five to fifteen kilometer range as an example which may cause the surveying data to be significantly influenced by the air wave effect. As can be appreciated by one skilled in the art the influence of the air wave effect on the survey data before processing in accordance with one of the data processing techniques described herein depends on a number of factors such as the source to receiver offset the resistivity of the sea bed the frequency of the electromagnetic energy used in the surveying etc.

As another example of another possible embodiment of the invention the airwave effect may be bucked or cancelled using two measurements at different distances from the source using two receivers that have the same polarization. More specifically in accordance with some embodiments of the invention the measurements made for the electric dipole sources at two different horizontal distances along a line may be combined to remove the airwave effect. The airwave effect is removed because the spatial change in amplitude of the airwave is predictable with a simple analytic expression which is set forth below. Because the response of the reservoir seafloor has different characteristics in terms of its spatial variations applying the appropriate geometrical corrections to and combining two separate data points along the line remove the airwave effect while maintaining the response of the targets at depth.

More specifically in accordance with some embodiments of the invention according to Eq. 2 the airwave depends only on the horizontal distance between the source and receiver called R and the depth of the transmitter called z . Therefore if fairly accurate estimates of the source position R and the transmitter depth z are known the airwave effect may be cancelled or bucked out by combining multiple measurements. For example two measurements called E and E may be combined to generate a measurement called E that is relatively insensitive to the airwave effect as set forth below 

The usefulness of the above described approach relies on the reservoir response having a different geometrical fall off versus source receiver separation as compared to the airwave which is generally the case. In addition because the positioning of the source may be prone to errors which are quantifiable the upper and lower bounds on the bucked fields may be provided by computing the results with associated errors in positioning. The same process may be applied to the crossline electric fields as well as the inline and crossline magnetic fields to remove airwave effects from those measurement configurations. It is noted that the cancellation of the airwave effect is best achieved where the measurement is dominated by the airwave.

Thus referring to in accordance with some embodiments of the invention a technique includes performing block first electromagnetic field measurements at a first position along a line to produce first data and performing block a second electromagnetic field measurement at a second position along the line to produce second data. The measurements are associated with the same type of receiver i.e. the measurements are either electric field measurements or magnetic field measurements and are associated with the same receiver polarization i.e. inline or crossline . The first and second data may then be combined block to generate third data which is insensitive to the airwave effect and is sensitive to resistive bodies.

The technique may be performed by software instructions that are executed by the computer see and may be stored for example in the memory . Additionally to overcome potential errors that may be introduced due to incorrect positioning of the source the positioning problem may be mitigated by calculating the impedances for the tow line from the electromagnetic field measurements as described above.

While the present invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure will appreciate numerous modifications and variations therefrom. It is intended that the appended claims cover all such modifications and variations as fall within the true spirit and scope of this present invention.

