---

title: Community based digital content auditing and streaming
abstract: In one embodiment, a system and method is illustrated and includes receiving auditing data relating to a piece of digital content, associating the auditing data with the piece of digital content to create audited digital content, receiving a content request pertaining to the audited digital content from a requester, checking a permission associated with the audited digital content, the permission to determine an exchange basis upon which the audited digital content is provided to the requester, and where the exchange basis defines the condition upon which the audited digital content may be accessed, and providing the audited digital content to the requester according to the exchange basis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07797352&OS=07797352&RS=07797352
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 07797352
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070619
---
This is a non provisional patent application that is related to United States Patent Application titled AGGREGATING CHARACTERISTIC INFORMATION FOR DIGITAL CONTENT application Ser. No. 11 444 642 United States Patent Application titled AUTOMATIC VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS USING A RATING SYSTEM application Ser. No. 11 669 002 and United States Patent Application titled VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS FOR STREAMING MEDIA application Ser. No. 11 724 871 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone in the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software data and or screenshots that may be illustrated below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2007 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.

The present application relates generally to the technical field of algorithms and programming and in one specific example to the auditing of digital content and the setting of permissions for this digital content.

People may view digital content distributed across networks through any one of a number of means. Some websites display digital content in the form of audio and or video content to anyone willing to download or otherwise access this digital content. In some cases this content is placed on a website by ordinary persons with little or no training in techniques used to generate digital content such as movies and the like. In other cases individuals with such training may place their digital content onto a web site. This digital content may be placed even though there are copyrights or other legal protections associated with this digital content.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of an embodiment of the present invention. It may be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention will be practiced without these specific details.

The leading digit s of reference numbers appearing in the Figures generally corresponds to the Figure number in which that component is first introduced such that the same reference number is used throughout to refer to an identical component which appears in multiple figures. Signals and connections may be referred to by the same reference number or label and the actual meaning will be clear from its use in the context of the description.

The distribution of digital content in the community content world is a well known phenomenon. Web sites such as YOUTUBE have allowed users e.g. members of a viewing community and or authors owners of digital content to distribute their digital content in ways not previously imagined. These websites and the members of the viewing communities that supports them provide for ways to allow users to state their likes or dislikes regarding particular pieces of digital content by for example tagging this content.

In some embodiments a system and method is illustrated to allow users e.g. both content authors owners and content viewers to identify tag monetize and distribute highlights of digital content. This digital content may include for example video files audio files audio video files electronic documents electronic slides eXtensible Markup Language XML based data such as Really Simple Syndication RSS feeds graphics files or other suitable forms of digital content. This content may be posted within for example the previously referenced community content world. The system may allow viewers to mark sections of long form content e.g. full length piece of digital content such as a movie or song through tagging them as piece of digital content e.g. highlights . These highlights may then be made available to other viewers who can in turn add tags to rate them or otherwise associate various permissions with them. Metadata may be associated with these highlights for the purpose of establishing these permissions. Further in some embodiments these highlights can be combined to create new collections of highlights that can in turn be selected tagged ordered viewed and or again have permissions associated with them. Moreover these highlights can be monetized by the content owners or authors based on a variety of parameters such as for example the number of times the highlight has been viewed the rating associated with the highlight and a number of other factors.

With regard to the owner authors of digital content in some cases the system and method illustrated herein allows them to monetize the highlights rather than just the long form content. Further the system and method shown herein allows these persons to use viewers as highlight creators both reducing the cost of highlight creation and taking advantage of community based publicity for what is actually a highlight. Put another way the system and method illustrated herein allows owner authors of content to leverage many of the properties of community content world for economic gain.

As to viewers of this digital content some embodiments of the system and method illustrated herein allow viewers to review highlights where otherwise these viewers would not have this option. Further these viewers may be able to view these highlights without having to pay for the entire piece of digital content e.g. without having to pay for the entire long form content . Additionally viewers themselves may be empowered to generate highlights via for example tagging.

Some embodiments may include allowing online long form video viewers to select and tag segments of the long form content. This in turn allows the digital content owner author to learn what aspects e.g. highlights or pieces of digital content of their content is more appealing to a particular community e.g. the online community where their particular piece of digital content is posted . Further the tagging may allow for an author user to more easily access their content. In some embodiments however this tagging may be controlled by permissions set by the digital content owner author such that the owner author may control the tagging activities of viewers.

Example embodiments may include the monetization of these highlights. For example a flexible pricing model may be employed by the digital content owner author based upon factors such as whether these highlights are part of a pre release versus a re run the title the actors e.g. the popularity of one actor versus another what the highlight is used for media factors e.g. length of highlight number of bits served etc. community factors e.g. top rated popularity or type of highlight e.g. video and audio video only audio only etc. .

In some embodiments the tags associated with a piece of digital content e.g. tagging data is aggregated such that a histogram may be generated reflecting this tagging data as for example audit data. A histogram may reflect user preferences regarding a piece of digital content over some predefined period of time. The audit data contained in the histogram could for example include the number of times a piece of digital content was viewed by a user the number times it was downloaded the number times it was recommended to third parties a rating value for the digital content or segments thereof or some other suitable type of audit data. Through generating this histogram a monetary value could be associated with this digital content such that the higher the rating the more valuable the digital content and the more costly to access.

Not only may entire pieces of digital content have an audit value attached to them but segments of digital content might as well. For example it may be the case that a particular guitar riff in a song may be fairly popular and noteworthy such that people may listen to it very often. And again it may be the case that a particular scene from a movie might be more popular than the entire movie itself. The audit values for this guitar riff or scene from a movie might be relatively high relative to the song that the guitar riff is from and the movie that the scene is from. That is for example a histogram tracking downloads of this guitar riff or movie scene might show a lot of downloads over a very short period of time denoting the popularity of the guitar riff or scene from the movie.

In some case the ability to access an entire piece of digital content or a portion of this digital content for the purpose of providing data for a histogram may be based upon certain permissions associated with the digital content. For example if one cannot download e.g. does not have the permission to do so a piece of digital content then a histogram regarding downloading may not be generated. The author owner of the digital content ultimately maintains control over what can be done with the highlights or even the long form versions of the digital content.

Once this digital content is uploaded then one or more users utilizing one more computer systems e.g. and may make a content review request and then provide auditing data regarding the digital content that is reviewed. For example a user using a computer system may make a content review request and transmit this content review request across a network to the community based content server . Once the content e.g. digital content is provided for viewing on the computer system a user may be free to generate auditing data . This auditing data may be for example data in the form of the recorded views or number of times a user views a particular piece of digital content rating data recommendation data or other suitable types of data wherein the digital content is audited or reviewed in some manner. Similarly a user utilizing a computer system may provide a content review request and then also generate auditing data . Further a user utilizing a computer system may make a content review request and then subsequently provide auditing data .

In some cases a user may want to actually retrieve a copy of the audited digital content. In such cases a user utilizing a computer system may make a content request . In response the user utilizing the computer system may be provided with audited digital content . The determination of whether the user utilizing the computer system is actually eligible to be provided with the audited digital content may be based upon certain permissions. These permissions may be permissions in the form of for example determining whether or not a particular user is barred from receiving the audited digital content whether or not they can receive segments of the audited digital content whether or not users may actually purchase the entirety of the audited digital content or segments thereof. In certain cases these purchases may be based upon for example the auditing data e.g. or and more specifically the number of times the digital content has been used rated e.g. the ratings value associated with the content or some other suitable basis upon which to monetize the audited digital content . As will be more fully discussed below the audited digital content may be in the form of a metadata and an associated digital content file or a media stream containing the metadata and a portion of the digital content file. This digital content file may contain highlights e.g. a segment of a piece of digital content or even the entire long form version of the digital content.

Further a number of other textboxes and labels for these textboxes are provided to allow a user to engage in certain activities when generating a digital content upload. For example textbox is illustrated wherein the name of an author can be placed which here is Spielberg. Further the title of a piece of digital content may be entered into textbox which here is Jaws. Moreover the duration of a particular piece of digital content may be entered for example into textbox . This duration may be delimited by for example semicolons or some other suitable character. Further in certain cases where an author of digital content may choose to rate the digital content that is select a rating permission then rating information may be entered into textbox . Here the rating values are delimited again with semicolons. Once a record is generated a widget in the form of button may be executed or if the user decides to enter a new record or otherwise start over a button may be executed. Collectively may be referred to as content type information.

Some embodiments may include the permission utilized by operation generated at the time that a piece of digital content is uploaded see e.g. . Specifically while for example monetization may be determined based upon criteria such as historical use see e.g. below in some embodiments an author owner of digital content may choose to set certain static permissions that do not change and hence set a static exchange basis. For example an author owner may choose to always allow their uploaded digital content to be segmented or to never be sold. See e.g. below. 

In some embodiments once the audited digital content is played the metadata associated with this audited digital content is updated based upon how the digital content is played or otherwise accessed e.g. if it is rated provided to a third party or accessed in some other way permissions permitting . This metadata file is updated such that if another peer should request this audited digital content then the metadata will reflect the most recent access of the digital content e.g. by ordinary peer device .

Once operations through are executed in parallel or in sequence an operation is executed. This operation as will be more fully described below may be used to determine peak usage times or other information that may be germane for the purposes of monetizing or otherwise attaching a monetary value to a particular piece of audited digital content. Next an operation is executed that in effect associates a monetary value with a particular piece of audited digital content or segment thereof. This association may be ultimately based upon rules supplied as a monetization rule set that is provided to an operation that acts to receive this monetization rule set . Once received by the operation the operation may be provided with data residing within the monetization rule set for it to make the association between the audited digital content and a particular monetary value. Once the monetization engine executes an operation is executed that generates exchanged information. This exchanged information may not only be for example a monetary value associated with a particular piece of audited digital content but additionally may contain information relating to other types of bases for exchange. That is for example in certain cases an author of a particular piece of audited digital content may not wish that the audited digital content or segment thereof be monetized but rather is willing to freely provide the audited digital content for viewing by for example a user utilizing a computer system . Further this exchanged information may include for example certain other types of limitations or other permissions that may enable disabling one from viewing or otherwise utilizing a particular piece of audited digital content.

In some embodiments the monetization rule set contains a set of instructions for determining the monetary value for collection of audit data. For example the monetization rule set may be an XML based or a character delimited flat file denoting a range of monetary values to be associated to or mapped to the range percentile values representing where a particular piece of audited digital content falls historically relative to other pieces of audited digital content. In some cases this monetization rule set may contain some multiplier value such that the product of this multiplier value and the percentage value is a monetary value to be associated with a piece of audited digital content. Still further in some embodiments monetization rule set may contain map number of monetary values to be mapped to a range of percentile values such that one monetary value may map to multiple percentile values.

In some embodiments in addition to the tags displayed in additional permission tags may also be displayed in the metadata file relating to the various permissions associated with the audited digital content shown by the metadata in metadata file . These permission tags may be used in conjunction with or in lieu of the tags displayed in . These permission tags may be illustrated as follows 

As is illustrated above these permission tags may describe various boolean values denoting what permissions exist for a particular piece or segment of audited digital content. These segments may be denoted by a TR value or range of TR values. For example the rating tag denotes that this piece of audited digital content may be rated by a user. Further the segment tag points to the fact that the piece of audited digital content may segmented that is divided into smaller pieces of audited digital content. Additionally the audited digital content may not be sold as illustrated by the sell tag. The audited digital content may not be provided to a third party as shown by the illustrated third party tag. Through these permissions an author owner of audited digital content may control how segments of their audited digital content are ultimately used by other users such as members of a viewing community. A character delimited flat file may be used in lieu of the above shown tags.

In one embodiment a system and method is illustrated and includes an operation that when executed facilitates receiving auditing data relating to a piece of digital content e.g. operation associating the auditing data with the piece of digital content to create audited digital content e.g. operation receiving a content request pertaining to the audited digital content from a requester e.g. operation checking a permission associated with the audited digital content the permission to determine an exchange basis upon which the audited digital content is provided to the requester and where the exchange basis defines the condition upon which the audited digital content may be accessed e.g. operations and providing the audited digital content to the requester according to the exchange basis e.g. operation .

Some embodiments may include the various databases e.g. and being relational databases or in some cases On Line Analytical Processing OLAP based databases. In the case of relational databases various tables of data are created and data is inserted into and or selected from these tables using a Structured Query Language SQL or some other database query language known in the art. In the case of OLAP databases one or more multi dimensional cubes or hyper cubes containing multidimensional data from which data is selected from or inserted into using a Multidimensional Expression Language MDX may be implemented. In the case of a database using tables and SQL a database application such as for example MYSQL MICROSOFT SQL SERVER ORACLE 8I 10G or some other suitable database application may be used to manage the data. In this the case of a database using cubes and MDX a database using Multidimensional On Line Analytic Processing MOLAP Relational On Line Analytic Processing ROLAP Hybrid Online Analytic Processing HOLAP or some other suitable database application may be used to manage the data. The tables or cubes made up of tables in the case of for example ROLAP are organized into an RDS or Object Relational Data Schema ORDS as is known in the art. These schemas may be normalized using certain normalization algorithms so as to avoid abnormalities such as non additive joins and other problems. Additionally these normalization algorithms may include Boyce Codd Normal Form or some other normalization or optimization algorithm known in the art.

Some example embodiments may include the above illustrated operations being written as one or more software components. Common to many of these components is the ability to generate use and manipulate the above illustrated UI elements layout elements and the data associated therewith. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server or peer computer systems. These various components can be implemented into the system on an as needed basis. These components may be written in an object oriented computer language such that a component oriented or object oriented programming technique can be implemented using a Visual Component Library VCL Component Library for Cross Platform CLX Java Beans JB Enterprise Java Beans EJB Component Object Model COM Distributed Component Object Model DCOM or other suitable technique. These components are linked to other components via various Application Programming Interfaces APIs and then compiled into one complete server and or client application. The method for using components in the building of client and server applications is well known in the art. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols as distributed computing components.

Some example embodiments may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of the above illustrated components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a GUI . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The various levels can be written using the above illustrated component design principles and can be written in the same programming language or different programming languages. Various protocols may be implemented to enable these various levels and the components contained therein to communicate regardless of the programming language used to write these components. For example an operation written in C using Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA or Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP can communicate with another remote module written in JAVA . Suitable protocols include SOAP CORBA and other protocols well known in the art.

Some embodiments may utilize the Open Systems Interconnection Basic Reference OSI model or TCP IP protocol stack model for defining the protocols used by a network to transmit data. In applying these models a system of data transmission between a server and client or between peer computer systems is illustrated as a series of roughly five layers comprising an application layer a transport layer a network layer a data link layer and a physical layer. In the case of software having a three tier architecture the various tiers e.g. the interface logic and storage tiers reside on the application layer of the TCP IP protocol stack. In an example implementation using the TCP IP protocol stack model data from an application residing at the application layer is loaded into the data load field of a TCP segment residing at the transport layer. This TCP segment also contains port information for a recipient software application residing remotely. This TCP segment is loaded into the data load field of an IP datagram residing at the network layer. Next this IP datagram is loaded into a frame residing at the data link layer. This frame is then encoded at the physical layer and the data transmitted over a network such as an internet Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or some other suitable network. In some cases internet refers to a network of networks. These networks may use a variety of protocols for the exchange of data including the aforementioned TCP IP and additionally ATM SNA SDI or some other suitable protocol. These networks may be organized within a variety of topologies e.g. a star topology or structures.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a Central Processing Unit CPU a Graphics Processing Unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or a Cathode Ray Tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a User Interface UI cursor controller e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device e.g. a transmitter .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions illustrated herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device using any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP .

The term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies illustrated herein. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

In some embodiments entire portions or segments of digital content are assigned permissions and audited by users. The permissions are established by author owners of the digital content. The audits performed on this digital content can include rating the digital content using the digital content downloading the digital content providing or otherwise recommending the digital content to a third party or some other permitted use. Once audited these portions or segments of digital content are for example available for download as audited digital content. In some embodiments a monetary value may be associated with the audited digital content such that a monetary fee may be charged for being allowed to execute the permission to download a piece of audited digital content. In many cases this monetary fee may be based upon the audit data as reflected in for example a histogram.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

