---

title: Network-based access and control of home automation systems
abstract: A device may include a memory to store a home automation graphical application and a processor to operate based on the home automation graphical application to establish via a network a communication link with a home automation system, and provide a graphical user interface to permit a user to view state information of home devices or modify home automation configuration data to control home devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08310335&OS=08310335&RS=08310335
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08310335
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070907
---
Home automation systems are increasingly becoming an attractive option for controlling devices such as appliances heating and cooling systems lights entertainment systems and security systems in the home. In one case for example a user may wish to program a turning on or a turning off of a device such as a light. In another case for example a user may wish to program more sophisticated operations such as setting a temperature in a room. Some home automation systems may include a central control unit that controls each of these devices.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Also the following description does not limit the invention.

User device may be a device that is capable of communicating with a network such as network . For example user device may include a portable communication device such as a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer or a mobile phone. In other instances user device may include a stationary communication device such as a desktop computer. User device may communicate with network for example via a wireless and or wired connection.

Network may include one or more series of nodes interconnected by communication links. For example network may include a wireless network a private network a wide area network WAN the Internet an intranet a switched network etc. Network may include a combination of networks. Network may connect with service provider server for example via a wireless and or wired connection.

Service provider server may include a device such as a computer system that is capable of communicating with network and network terminal . In one implementation service provider server may be a single device. In another implementation service provider server may include multiple devices that are either co located or remotely located. In one implementation service provider server may be a Web server. Service provider server may connect to network terminal for example via a wireless and or wired connection.

Network terminal may include any device capable of connecting other devices to a network such as network and or service provider server . For example network terminal may be an optical network terminal or a modem e.g. cable or Digital Subscriber Line DSL modem or another type of modem and may operate as an intermediary component between service provider server and home router . Home router may include any device capable of connecting network terminal and home automation system . For example home router may be a wireless router. In another implementation home router may be a wired router. In one implementation home router may be an Internet Protocol IP wired wireless router. Home router may also provide firewall functionality such as packet filtering and protection against rogue attacks.

Home automation system may include multiple components that allow a user to access and control the operation of a home device. In one implementation home automation system may include a central controller such as central control unit and a component connected to a home device such as slave unit . In such an implementation the user may access and control the operation of a home device via central control unit .

Central control unit may include any logic capable of communicating with and or controlling a home device. Logic as used herein may include hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software. For example central control unit may be a display and keypad module mounted on a wall. In other instances central control unit may a desktop module.

In one implementation central control unit may control a home device via slave unit . For example central control unit may establish a communication link to slave unit . In one implementation the communication link may be a wireless link e.g. radio frequency RF . Additionally or alternatively the communication link may be a wired link e.g. a 110 Volt AC line of a wall socket . Central control unit may communicate with slave unit using a standard protocol e.g. X10 or a proprietary protocol e.g. an RF protocol or a wired protocol .

Slave unit may include a component to transmit and or receive information from central control unit . The type of control that slave unit may provide may depend on the home device to which slave unit is connected. For example slave unit of floor lamp may control the turning on and the turning off of floor lamp . However for example slave unit of ceiling light may control the turning on and the turning off of ceiling light as well as controlling the level of light e.g. dimming or for example slave unit of stereo may control various operations such as selecting a compact disc CD in a CD changer or selecting a radio station. Ceiling light stereo and floor lamp are examples of home devices that a user may manage via central control unit .

Although illustrates exemplary components of system in other implementations system may include additional fewer or different components than are depicted in . For example home automation system may not include central control unit . That is home automation system may include components having a peer to peer relationship and not a master slave relationship. So for example when home automation system includes components having a peer to peer relationship user device may connect to the peer to peer component to manage and control home devices connected thereto. In this regard since most home automation systems operate analogous to a network it is to be understood that numerous variations may exist with respect to home automation system as described herein.

Additionally it is to be understood that a single component may be implemented as multiple distributed components. For example home automation system may include central control unit for each floor or room of a home. Additionally or alternatively home automation system may include additional devices such as remote controls that allow the user to control a home device.

Depending on the implementation of home automation system modifications to home automation system may be useful so that central control unit is connectable to network via home router and network terminal . For example central control unit may include a network interface card or some other type of network interface adapter logic. Further depending on the implementation of home automation system protocol translation and or protocol logic may be useful. For example in one implementation home automation system may include logic for using transmission control protocol TCP IP. Additionally depending on the implementation of home automation system home automation system may use remote access logic such as a remote access application so that user device may access and control for example central control unit .

Housing may include a structure configured to contain components of user device . For example housing may be formed from plastic and configured to support microphone speaker keypad function keys and display .

Microphone may include any component capable of transducing air pressure waves to a corresponding electrical signal. For example a user may speak into microphone during a telephone call. Speaker may include any component capable of transducing an electrical signal to a corresponding sound wave. For example a user may listen to music through speaker .

Keypad may include any component capable of providing input to user device . Keypad may include a standard telephone keypad. Keypad may include one or more special purpose keys. In one implementation each key of keypad may be for example a pushbutton. A user of user device may utilize keypad for entering information such as text phone numbers or activating a special function.

Function keys may include any component capable of providing input to user device . Function keys may include a key that permits a user to cause user device to perform one or more operations. The functionality associated with a key of function keys may change depending on the mode of user device . For example function keys may perform a variety of operations such as placing a phone call playing various media or accessing an application. Function keys may include a key that provides a cursor function and a select function. In one implementation each key of function keys may be for example a pushbutton.

Display may include any component capable of providing visual information. For example in one implementation display may be a liquid crystal display LCD . In another implementation display may be any one of other display technologies such as a plasma display panel PDP a field emission display FED a thin film transistor TFT display etc. Display may be utilized to display for example text images and or video information.

Although illustrates exemplary components of user device in other implementations user device may include fewer additional and or different components than depicted in . In still other implementations one or more components of user device may include the capabilities of one or more other components of user device . For example display may be used as an input device e.g. a touch screen . Additionally or alternatively the external components may be arranged differently than the external components depicted in .

Processor may include a processor a microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Main memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor . ROM may include a ROM device or another type of static storage device that may store static information and instructions for use by processor . Storage device may include a magnetic and or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive.

Input device may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to the device such as a keyboard a button a mouse a pen a microphone voice recognition and or biometric mechanisms etc. Output device may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator including a display one or more light emitting diodes LEDs a printer a speaker etc. Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables the device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with another device or system via a network such as network .

As will be described in detail below the device shown in as described herein may perform certain operations relating to the access and management of home automation system . The device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as main memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a physical or logical memory device and or carrier wave.

The software instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in main memory may cause processor to perform processes that will be described later. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Home automation module may include a setup module a control module and a status module . It will be appreciated that user device may include other modules not illustrated that aid in providing remote access and control of central control unit of home automation system .

Given the wide variety of home automation systems available today home automation module may operate in accordance with an application programming interface API in order for home automation module to provide an interface to central control unit and or slave units . The API may provide an interface to access and control various resources and services of central control unit and or slave units . The API may also provide an interface to access the networking capability of central control unit and or slave units and to allow a user to remotely access central control unit and or slave units via home automation module . Home automation module may include a GUI component to allow a user of user device to connect to central control unit .

Setup module may provide a user of user device the capability to initialize various parameters associated with home automation system . For example setup module may provide a GUI component that allows the user to create a graphical representation of home automation system and or the home devices connected thereto.

Setup module may access and or store configuration information from home automation system . For example central control unit may identify each room of a home as a zone and within each zone may include zero or more slave units . In other implementations central control unit may identify each floor of a home as a zone or a zone could represent indoor or outdoor regions etc. In such an implementation setup module may provide a user with a graphical representation of this configuration. Additionally setup module may identify the type of home device connected to slave unit . For example setup module may indicate that a home device connected to slave unit is a light. Setup module may also provide the user with various customization features that provide a more user friendly environment for managing the operation of home automation system as will be described below in reference to .

Control module may provide a GUI component that allows a user of user device to control various settings associated with the control of home devices connected to slave units . For example a user may be able to control when a home device e.g. ceiling light turns on and or turns off. Depending on the home device more sophisticated parameters may be controlled. For example a user of user device may be able to turn on stereo select a CD from a CD changer and have stereo play the selected CD at a certain time.

Control module may provide a GUI component that allows a user of user device to control various settings based on for example the home device the category of the home device e.g. lights entertainment indoor outdoor etc. by room e.g. a room in the home by floor e.g. an entire floor of the home by home e.g. a global setting such as turning every device on or off by time of day e.g. day time or night time by day e.g. weekend work day Monday through Sunday and or by week.

Status module may provide a GUI component that allows a user of user device to view state information associated with for example a home device e.g. floor lamp a room e.g. a room in the home a floor e.g. an entire floor in the home a home e.g. all rooms in the home and or all devices in the home and or outside of the home or by a category of a home device e.g. lights entertainment indoor outdoor etc. . In this way a user may determine the operational status of any and all home devices connected to home automation system . For example a user may determine whether ceiling light is on or off. Depending on the home device other operational statuses may be determined. For example when the home device is a security camera it may be possible to view video captured by the security camera on display of user device .

Although illustrates exemplary functional capabilities operable on user device in other implementations fewer additional and or different functional capabilities than those depicted in may be employed. In still other implementations one or more functional capabilities may be operable on other devices of system . For example service provider server may include one or more of the functional capabilities described above. In such an instance user device may connect to service provider server to access control and or manage one or more aspects of home automation system .

In Block user device may establish a communication link via a network such as network with a central control unit of a home automation system such as central control unit of home automation system . In one implementation home automation module may include a GUI component that allows a user to connect to central control unit . In another implementation user device may include for example a web browser or some other type of GUI component to connect to central control unit .

In Block user device may access and receive home automation configuration data from central control unit . For example the home automation configuration data may include any data relating to the operation of home automation system and the managing and controlling of the home devices connected thereto. For example home automation configuration data may include data such as setup data control data and status data related to central control unit slave units and or the home devices connected thereto

In Block user device may convert the home automation configuration data to graphical home automation configuration data that may be displayed on display of user device . Depending on the format of the home automation configuration data stored in home automation system e.g. configuration data stored in central control unit the home automation configuration data may be converted into a format that is displayable in a graphical format on display . The format of the graphical home automation configuration data may be based on the implementation of home automation module the operating system of user device etc.

In Block user device may manage and control home automation system . For example a user may be able to setup control and or determine status information for any home device connected to home automation system using a GUI component such as home automation module as described herein. For example as described and illustrated in reference to . user device may assign icons to represent a home device control the turning on and the turning off of a home device and view state information such as whether a home device is on or off.

In Block user device may re convert the graphical home automation configuration data to home automation configuration data. That is the graphical home automation configuration data may be converted back to the format of home automation system e.g. of central control unit .

In Block user device may store via the network such as network the home automation configuration data in central control unit of home automation system . For example when user device modifies the home automation configuration data e.g. changes a setting for a home device these changes may be stored in central control unit .

Although illustrates exemplary operations for accessing and controlling home automation system via network in other implementations fewer additional or different operations may be performed. For example in one implementation user device may be able to download a portion of home automation module from service provider server . That is when a user wants to view status information user device may only download status module . In another implementation a user may not download home automation module . That is user device may include home automation module .

Additionally or alternatively in reference to Block and or Block in other implementations user device may not establish a communication link with home automation system . For example service provider server may service requests from user device for accessing and managing home automation system . For example service provider server may include home automation module . In one implementation service provider server may retrieve the home automation configuration data associated with home automation system upon receiving the request. Additionally or alternatively service provider server may store the home automation configuration data associated with home automation system . In one implementation service provider server may periodically update the home automation configuration data by periodically communicating with home automation system . When necessary depending on the format of the home automation configuration data service provider server may convert the home automation configuration data associated with home automation system to graphical home automation configuration data. Additionally service provider server may update if needed the home automation configuration data on home automation system . For example service provider server may update the home automation configuration data when a user modifies the home automation configuration data.

Additionally or alternatively in reference to Block in other implementations the home automation configuration data may not be converted. For example depending on the implementation of home automation system and or central control unit home automation module may be configured to display the home automation configuration data on display without format conversion. In still other implementations the home automation configuration data may be converted by other devices of system such as service provider server .

Additionally or alternatively in reference to Block in other implementations the graphical user interface such as home automation module may reside on service provider server .

Additionally or alternatively in reference to Block in other implementations user device may not cause the home automation configuration data to be stored by home automation system . For example when a user does not modify the home automation configuration data user device may not store the home automation configuration data. For example when a user only views the status information of a home device user device may not store the home automation configuration data.

In Block service provider server may establish a communication link via a network such as network with user device . For example a user of user device may establish a connection with service provider via the Web or some other network. A user may log into service provider server and service provider server may verify user log in information. When service provider server authenticates a user of user device service provider server may establish a communication link with user device .

In Block service provider server may receive via network a request from user device for application software such as home automation module . For example user device may navigate through links of service provider server to request home automation module . In one implementation user device may request a component of home automation module such as status module . In other implementations user device may request all of the components of home automation module .

In Block service provider server may transmit via network one or more portions of home automation module to user device .

In Block service provider server may receive a request via network from user device to store graphical home automation configuration data. For example user device may want to store graphical home automation configuration data associated with setup module and or control module of home automation module . For example as described in reference to . user device may generate graphical home automation configuration data when accessing and managing home automation system with home automation module .

In Block service provider server may store the graphical home automation configuration data. For example service provider server may store the graphical home automation configuration data on storage device . In other examples service provider server may store home automation configuration on home automation system that may cause home automation system to control the operation of a home device. For example when a user controls the operation of a home device with control module the graphical home automation configuration data of control module may be converted by service provider server and stored on home automation system .

Although illustrates exemplary operations for accessing and controlling home automation system via network in other implementations fewer additional or different operations may be performed. For example in other implementations service provider server may retrieve home automation configuration data and or have stored home automation configuration data. Service provider server may present this data to a user upon request. A user may access and manage his her home automation system via service provider server and when any modifications are made service provider server may store this data on home automation system which may cause a home device to operate for example differently based on new control settings.

Title bar may indicate to a user which portion of home automation system is accessed. For example title bar may indicate that a user is accessing a Setup Menu of setup module . Pull down menu may provide a user with access to various functions associated with initializing the graphical representation of home automation system and the home devices connected thereto. Selector menu may include component selector and home selector . For example a user may select a component of home automation system such as Central Module 1 . For example Central Module 1 may represent central control unit . Home selector for example may allow a user to select various regions of the home such as the entire home a floor of their home or a room of their home. For example a user may select a floor of their home such as Basement. In other instances a user may navigate by double clicking on various graphics in working space .

Zone may represent a room in a user s home. Home devices may represent a home device connected to home automation system . In this example working space may include default graphical configuration data such as zones and home devices which a user may view and edit as described below.

In this example GUI component depicts that a central control unit such as central control unit controls home devices in the basement. The basement of a user s home may include six zones i.e. six rooms where each zone may include zero or more home devices . The type of home devices may be viewed and or accessed by a user for initialization purposes.

In one implementation GUI component may provide home device type information based on the configuration data of central control unit to allow a user to know the type of home device that corresponds to home device . For example the configuration data of central control unit may include information such as Basement Zone 1 1 light type A 2 stereo 3 light type B. In this example 1 light type A may indicate that home device may include a light with dimming features and 3 light type B may indicate that home device may include a light without dimming features e.g. on off only . Based on this information a user may be able to select icons for each home device . That is a user may be able to identify that 1 light type A corresponds to ceiling light and 3 light type B corresponds to floor lamp as illustrated in . GUI component may also permit a user to rename certain items such as renaming Zone 1 to Game Room. 

Although . illustrate exemplary GUIs for setup module of home automation module in other implementations GUI components and or may include fewer different or additional graphical representations associated with home automation system and or home devices . Additionally or alternatively GUI components and or may include fewer different or additional functions than those described herein. Further it is to be understood that the graphical configuration data associated with setup module may be stored in for example user device or other components of system such as service provider server . In this way a user may not have to re initialize e.g. assign icons rename zones etc. the configuration data of home automation system each time home automation system is accessed and managed.

Title bar may indicate to a user which portion of home automation module is accessed. Pull down menu may provide a user with access to various functions associated with controlling home devices such as setting on and off times etc. Pull down menu may also allow a user to set control parameters in a global based floor based room based or individual home device based manner.

Selector menu may include component selector and home selector . For example a user may select a component of home automation system such as Central Module 1 . For example Central Module 1 may represent central control unit . Home selector for example may allow a user to select various regions of the home such as the entire home a floor of their home or a room of their home. For example a user may select a floor of their home such as Basement. In other instances a user may navigate by double clicking on various graphics in working space .

Working space may include the graphical representation of home devices and their corresponding control setting information. As described below controllers and may provide a user with a graphical interface to adjust and or control various parameters associated with the operation of home device such as ceiling light .

For example ceiling light may include controllers and . Controller may allow a user to set when ceiling light may turn on. Controller may allow a user to set when ceiling light may turn off. For example a user may set the time by for example double clicking on controller or to access a time window. Controller may allow a user to set a level of light ceiling light may have when turned on by sliding a slider of controller .

Although illustrates an exemplary GUI for control module of home automation module in other implementations GUI component may include fewer different or additional graphical representations of control settings components associated with home automation system and or home devices . Additionally or alternatively GUI component may include fewer different or additional functions than those described herein.

Title bar may indicate to a user which portion of home automation module is accessed. Pull down menu may provide a user with access to various functions associated with viewing status information such as global status views home floor views room views or an individual home device view. Selector menu may include component selector and home selector . For example a user may select a component of home automation system such as Central Module 1 . For example Central Module 1 may represent central control unit . Home selector for example may allow a user to select various regions of the home such as the entire home a floor of their home or a room of their home. For example a user may select a floor of their home such as Basement. In other instances a user may navigate by double clicking on various graphics in working space .

Working space may include the graphical representation of home devices and their corresponding status information. As described below status indicators and may indicate to a user the status of each home device such as whether home device is on off or other status information.

For example ceiling light may include status indicators and . Status indicator may indicate that ceiling light is currently on. Status indicator may indicate that ceiling light is at a twenty five percent 25 dim level. Further as illustrated in status indicator may indicate that stereo is off and status indicator may indicate that floor lamp is off.

Although illustrates an exemplary GUI for status module of home automation module in other implementations GUI component may include fewer different or additional graphical representations of status information components associated with home automation system and or home devices . Additionally or alternatively GUI component may include fewer different or additional functions than those described herein.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the teachings. The foregoing description however provides a user friendly environment for accessing and managing a home automation system via a network.

In addition while series of blocks have been described with regard to processes illustrated in and the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that aspects described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement aspects does not limit the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the implementations described herein unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a an and the are intended to include one or more items. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated list items.

