---

title: Methods for identifying inhibitors of solute transporters
abstract: Provided herein are methods for identifying and characterizing agents that alter the volume of a cell. Methods are provided for rapid screening and identification of an agent that alters the capability of a small, neutrally charged solute transporter to transport the solute across a cell membrane. The methods described herein may be used to identify and characterize inhibitors of urea transporters, to identify and characterize inhibitors of aquaporins, and to identify and characterize inhibitors of other small, neutrally charged solutes such as glucose.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09316633&OS=09316633&RS=09316633
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 09316633
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071116
---
This application is a U.S. national stage application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Patent Application PCT US2007 085017 accorded an international filing date of Nov. 16 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 859 665 filed Nov. 16 2006 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 859 666 filed Nov. 16 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 859 800 filed Nov. 16 2006 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DK35124 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Agents that alter the transport activity of small neutrally charged solutes by solute transporters and agents that alter transport of water by aquaporins are needed as therapeutic agents for increasing solute clearance in states of fluid overload and for treating diseases disorders and conditions such as hypertension. Methods for identifying and using agents that inhibit solute transporters and aquaporins are described herein.

Diuretics are administered widely in humans to increase renal salt and water clearance in a variety of conditions that are associated with total body fluid overload such as congestive heart failure and cirrhosis as well in normovolemic states such as hypertension and syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone SIADH . Most diuretics are inhibitors of salt absorption by kidney tubules such as a furosemide block of Na K 2Cl co transport in the thick ascending limb of Henle and a thiazide block of Na Cl co transport in the distal tubule. Recently a new type of diuretic called an aquaretic has been developed to increase renal water clearance in hyponatremia associated with fluid overload or SIADH see e.g. Goldsmith 95 14 B 23B 2005 Miller 54 345 53 2006 . Vasopressin 2 receptor V2R antagonist aquaretics have been approved for clinical use in some countries though not yet in the United States and aquaporin inhibitor aquaretics are under development.

Functional studies in knock out mice indicate a critical role for solute transporters such as urea transporters UTs in the urinary concentrating mechanism and in renal urea clearance. However potent and specific urea transport blockers have not been available. Accordingly a third type of diuretic is needed one that targets renal urea clearance mechanisms. Because urea is of at least equal importance to NaCl in the renal countercurrent mechanism for urinary concentration see e.g. Bankir et al. supra Masilamani et al. 6th Edition Brenner ed. Philadelphia Pa. WB Saunders Company pages 595 35 2000 such diuretics are needed for increasing solute clearance in states of fluid overload for treating hypertension and may also be useful in prolonging dialysis free survival in chronic renal insufficiency. Therapeutic molecules are needed that are capable of effectively increasing renal water and solute clearance in subjects who are exhibiting a water retaining state.

Thus a need exists for methods that permit rapid screening and characterization of large numbers of agents to identify agents that alter the transport activity of solute transporters such as agents that alter the transport activity of urea transporters. Methods are also needed in the art for rapid screening and identification of agents that alter the transport activity of aquaporins.

In one embodiment a method of identifying an agent that alters the volume of a cell is provided which method comprises a preparing a first indicator cell sample and a second indicator cell sample wherein each of the first and second indicator cell samples comprises one or a plurality of indicator cells combined with a first solution that comprises a neutrally charged solute in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution wherein the indicator cells are derived from a biological sample b contacting a candidate agent with the first indicator cell sample under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the indicator cell c subsequent to step b replacing the first solution from the first and second indicator cell samples with a second solution that lacks the neutrally charged solute to provide each of the first and second indicator cell samples in a substantially isosmolar solution and d subsequent to step c comparing a first level of indicator cell lysis in the first indicator cell sample to a second level of indicator cell lysis in the second indicator cell sample wherein a difference between the first and second levels indicates that the agent alters cell volume. In a certain embodiment the agent that alters cell volume is capable of altering transport of the solute by a transporter polypeptide across a cell membrane of the indicator cell. In a particular embodiment the transporter polypeptide is endogenously expressed by the indicator cell. Alternatively the indicator cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes the transporter polypeptide and that directs expression of the transporter polypeptide in the indicator cell.

In one specific embodiment the indicator cell is a red blood cell wherein the biological sample comprises red blood cells and wherein the red blood cell is a red blood cell of a mammal which is for example a human a non human primate a mouse a rat a dog or a cat. In a particular embodiment the biological sample is whole blood. In a particular embodiment altering transport of the solute across the cell membrane of the indicator cell comprises inhibiting transport of the solute by the transporter polypeptide across the cell membrane. In a specific embodiment the transporter polypeptide is a urea transporter wherein the urea transporter is a UT B transporter. In another embodiment the urea transporter is at least one UT A transporter selected from a UT A1 isoform UT A2 isoform UT A3 isoform UT A4 isoform and UT A5 isoform. In one embodiment the first level of indicator cell lysis is greater than the second level of indicator cell lysis thereby indicating that the agent is capable of altering transport of the solute by the urea transporter. In a specific embodiment the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the first indicator cell sample and wherein the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 40 of the indicator cells in the second indicator cell sample. In particular embodiments the solute is selected from urea a urea analogue glycerol a monosaccharide and a disaccharide wherein the urea analogue is selected from formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide. In one embodiment when the solute is a urea analogue the hyperosmolar solution comprises the urea analogue at a concentration of 1.0 1.5 M. In a particular embodiment the indicator cell is a mouse red blood cell and the solute is N methylurea and in another particular embodiment the indicator cell is a human red blood cell and the solute is acetamide. In a specific embodiment the solute is urea and the hyperosmolar solution comprises 2.0 3.0 M urea and the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the first indicator cell sample and the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 40 of the indicator cells in the second indicator cell sample.

In another embodiment of the method of identifying an agent that alters the volume of a cell the agent that alters cell volume is capable of altering transport of water by a transporter polypeptide across a cell membrane of the indicator cell. In a particular embodiment altering transport of water across a cell membrane comprises inhibiting transport of water across the cell membrane wherein inhibiting water transport across a cell membrane comprises inhibiting water transport by at least one aquaporin polypeptide. In specific embodiments the at least one aquaporin AQP polypeptide is selected from AQP1 AQP2 AQP3 and AQP4. According to this embodiment the first level of indicator cell lysis is less than the second level of indicator cell lysis thereby indicating that the agent is capable of inhibiting water transport by the at least one aquaporin polypeptide. The solute is selected from urea a urea analogue a monosaccharide and a disaccharide. In a particular embodiment urea is the solute and the hyperosmolar solution comprises 2.5 5.0 M urea and the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 41 of the indicator cells in the first indicator cell sample and the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the second indicator cell sample. In another specific embodiment a urea analogue is the solute and the hyperosmolar solution comprises the urea analogue at a concentration of 2.0 3.5 M. In a particular embodiment the solute is glucose and the hyperosmolar solution comprises glucose at a concentration of 2.0 3.5 M. In this embodiment of the method wherein an agent alters the volume of the cell and the agent is capable of altering transport of water across a cell membrane the first level of lysis determined indicates lysis of 0 to 41 of the indicator cells and the second level of lysis determined indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells.

According to particular embodiments of the methods described herein the candidate agent is a member of a combinatorial library. In a specific embodiment the candidate agent is a small molecule.

In another embodiment provided herein is a method of identifying an agent that inhibits transport of urea across a cell membrane of a cell which method comprises a preparing a first indicator cell sample and a second indicator cell sample wherein each of the first and second indicator cell samples comprises one or a plurality of indicator cells combined with a first solution that comprises urea or an analogue thereof in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution wherein the indicator cells are derived from a biological sample and wherein each indicator cell comprises at least one urea transporter polypeptide b contacting a candidate agent with the first indicator cell sample under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the at least one urea transporter polypeptide of the indicator cell c subsequent to step b replacing the first solution from the first and second indicator cell samples with a second solution that lacks urea to provide each of the first and second indicator cell samples in a substantially isosmolar solution and d subsequent to step c comparing a first level of indicator cell lysis in the first indicator cell sample with a second level of indicator cell lysis in the second indicator cell sample wherein the agent inhibits urea transport across a cell membrane if the first level of indicator cell lysis is greater than the second level of indicator cell lysis. In certain embodiments the at least one urea transporter polypeptide is endogenously expressed by the indicator cell and in other certain embodiments the indicator cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes the at least one urea transporter polypeptide and that directs expression of the at least one urea transporter polypeptide in the indicator cell. In one particular embodiment the at least one urea transporter is a UT B transporter. In other particular embodiments the at least one urea transporter is at least one UT A transporter selected from a UT A1 isoform UT A2 isoform UT A3 isoform UT A4 isoform and UT A5 isoform. In other specific embodiments the indicator cell is a red blood cell and the biological sample comprises red blood cells wherein the red blood cell is a red blood cell of a mammal. In particular embodiments the mammal is a human a non human primate a mouse a rat a dog or a cat. In certain embodiments the biological sample is whole blood. In certain embodiments of the method the candidate agent is a member of a combinatorial library. In certain particular embodiments the candidate agent is a small molecule. According to one embodiment of the method the solute is selected from urea a urea analogue glycerol a monosaccharide and a disaccharide wherein the urea analogue is selected from formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide. In a particular embodiment the solute is a urea analogue and the hyperosmolar solution comprises the urea analogue at a concentration of 1.0 1.5 M. In a certain embodiment the indicator cell is a mouse red blood cell and the solute is N methylurea and in another certain embodiment the indicator cell is a human red blood cell and the solute is acetamide. In one embodiment the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the first indicator cell sample and the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 40 of the indicator cells in the second indicator cell sample. In a more specific embodiment the solute is urea and the hyperosmolar solution comprises 2.0 3.0 M urea wherein the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the first indicator cell sample and wherein the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 40 of the indicator cells in the second indicator cell sample.

In another embodiment provided herein is a method of identifying an agent that inhibits transport of water across a cell membrane which method comprises a preparing a first indicator cell sample and a second indicator cell sample wherein each of the first and second indicator cell samples comprises one or a plurality of indicator cells combined with a first solution that comprises a neutrally charged solute in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution wherein the indicator cells are derived from a biological sample and wherein each indicator cell comprises at least one aquaporin polypeptide b contacting a candidate agent with the first indicator cell suspension under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the at least one aquaporin polypeptide of the indicator cell c subsequent to step b replacing the first solution from the first and second indicator cell samples with a second solution that lacks the neutrally charged solute to provide each of the first and second indicator cell samples in a substantially isosmolar solution and d subsequent to step c comparing a first level of indicator cell lysis in the first indicator cell sample with a second level of indicator cell lysis in the second indicator cell sample wherein the agent inhibits water transport across a cell membrane if the first level of indicator cell lysis is less than the second level of indicator cell lysis. In a specific embodiment the at least one aquaporin polypeptide is endogenously expressed by the indicator cell and in another specific embodiment the indicator cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes the at least aquaporin polypeptide and that directs expression of the at least one aquaporin polypeptide in the indicator cell. In certain specific embodiment the at least one aquaporin AQP polypeptide is selected from AQP1 AQP2 AQP3 and AQP4. In other specific embodiments the indicator cell is a red blood cell and the biological sample comprises red blood cells wherein the red blood cell is a red blood cell of a mammal. In particular embodiments the mammal is a human a non human primate a mouse a rat a dog or a cat. In certain embodiments the biological sample is whole blood. In certain embodiments of the method the candidate agent is a member of a combinatorial library. In certain particular embodiments the candidate agent is a small molecule. According to one embodiment of the method the solute is selected from urea a urea analogue glycerol a monosaccharide and a disaccharide wherein the urea analogue is selected from formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide. In a particular embodiment urea is the solute and wherein the hyperosmolar solution comprises 2.5 5.0 M urea wherein the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 41 of the indicator cells in the first indicator cell sample and wherein the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the second indicator cell sample. In another particular embodiment a urea analogue is the solute and wherein the hyperosmolar solution comprises the urea analogue at a concentration of 2.0 3.5 M. In still another embodiment the solute is glucose and wherein the hyperosmolar solution comprises glucose at a concentration of 2.0 3.5 M. According to these embodiments the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 41 of the indicator cells in the first indicator cell sample and wherein the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the second indicator cell sample.

In still another embodiment a method of identifying an agent that inhibits transport of a neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane of a cell is provided which method comprises a preparing a first indicator cell sample and a second indicator cell sample wherein each of the first and second indicator cell samples comprises one or a plurality of indicator cells combined with a first solution that comprises a neutrally charged solute in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution wherein the indicator cells are derived from a biological sample and wherein each indicator cell comprises at least one transporter polypeptide that is capable of transporting the solute across a cell membrane b contacting a candidate agent with the first indicator cell sample under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the at least one transporter polypeptide of the indicator cell c subsequent to step b replacing the first solution from the first and second indicator cell samples with a second solution that lacks the neutrally charged solute to provide each of the first and second indicator cell samples in a substantially isosmolar solution and d subsequent to step c comparing a first level of indicator cell lysis in the first indicator cell sample with a second level of indicator cell lysis in the second indicator cell sample wherein the agent inhibits transport of the solute across a cell membrane if the first level of indicator cell lysis is greater than the second level of indicator cell lysis. In a particular embodiment the solute is urea or an analogue thereof and the transporter polypeptide is a urea transporter polypeptide wherein the analogue of urea is selected from formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide. In one specific embodiment the at least one urea transporter is a UT B transporter and in another specific embodiment the at least one urea transporter is at least one UT A transporter selected from a UT A1 isoform UT A2 isoform UT A3 isoform UT A4 isoform and UT A5 isoform. In another specific embodiment the at least one solute is a monosaccharide and the transporter polypeptide is a glucose transporter polypeptide wherein the monosaccharide is selected from glucose fructose and galactose. In another specific embodiment in the monosaccharide is glucose and the glucose transporter is selected from GLUT1 GLUT2 GLUT3 and GLUT4. In further particular embodiments the indicator cell is a red blood cell.

In another embodiment of the method of identifying an agent that inhibits transport of a neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane of a cell the at least one solute is a glycerol and the transporter polypeptide is an aquaporin that is capable of transporting glycerol and water across a cell membrane wherein the aquaporin is selected from AQP3 AQP7 and AQP9. In certain specific embodiments the indicator cell further comprises an aquaporin that is capable of transporting water and is incapable of transporting glycerol wherein the aquaporin is selected from AQP0 AQP1 AQP2 AQP4 AQP5 AQP6 and AQP8. In this embodiment the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the first substantially isosmolar mixture and the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 40 of the indicator cells in the second substantially isosmolar mixture.

In certain particular embodiments of the methods described above and herein when the indicator cell is a red blood cell the first level of indicator cell lysis and the second level of indicator cell lysis are determined by spectrophotometry. In one particular embodiment spectrophotometry comprises measuring absorbance at 710 nm.

In another embodiment provided herein is a method of identifying an agent that inhibits transport of urea across a cell membrane which method comprises a preparing a first indicator cell suspension and a second indicator cell suspension wherein each of said first and second indicator cell suspensions comprises one or a plurality of cells suspended in a first solution that comprises urea or an analogue thereof in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution the indicator cells being derived from a biological sample and each comprising at least one urea transporter polypeptide b contacting a candidate agent with the first indicator cell suspension of a under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the at least one urea transporter polypeptide of the indicator cell c subsequent to step b diluting the first indicator cell suspension with a second solution to obtain a first substantially isosmolar mixture and diluting the second indicator cell suspension with the second solution to obtain a second substantially isosmolar mixture and d comparing a first level of indicator cell lysis in the first substantially isosmolar mixture to a second level of indicator cell lysis in the second substantially isosmolar mixture wherein the agent inhibits urea transport across a cell membrane if the first level of indicator cell lysis is greater than the second level of indicator cell lysis. In one specific embodiment the indicator cell endogenously expresses the at least one urea transporter polypeptide. Alternatively the indicator cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes the at least one urea transporter polypeptide and that directs expression of the at least one urea transporter polypeptide in the indicator cell. In particular embodiments the at least one urea transporter is a UT B transporter and in other particular embodiments the at least one urea transporter is at least one UT A transporter selected from a UT A1 isoform a UT A2 isoform a UT A3 isoform a UT A4 isoform and a UT A5 isoform. In certain embodiments the solute is selected from urea a urea analogue a monosaccharide and a disaccharide wherein the urea analogue is selected from formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide. In other particular embodiments the indicator cell is a red blood cell. In certain embodiments the candidate agent is a member of a combinatorial library and in particular embodiments the candidate agent is a small molecule. In specific embodiments the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the first substantially isosmolar mixture and the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 40 of the indicator cells in the second substantially isosmolar mixture. In particular embodiments the solute is a urea analogue and the hyperosmolar solution comprises the urea analogue at a concentration of 1.0 1.5 M wherein in certain embodiments the urea analogue is acetamide or N methylurea. In a more specific embodiment the indicator cell is a murine red blood cell and the solute is N methylurea and in another specific embodiment the indicator cell is a human red blood cell and the solute is acetamide. In one embodiment when the solute is urea and the hyperosmolar solution comprises 2.0 3.0 M urea the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the first substantially isosmolar mixture and the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 40 of the indicator cells in the second substantially isosmolar mixture.

Also provided herein is a method of identifying an agent that inhibits transport of water across a cell membrane comprising a preparing a first indicator cell suspension and a second indicator cell suspension wherein each of said first and second indicator cell suspensions comprises one or a plurality of cells suspended in a first solution that comprises a neutrally charged solute in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution the indicator cells being derived from a biological sample and each comprising at least one aquaporin polypeptide b contacting a candidate agent with the first indicator cell suspension of a under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the at least one aquaporin polypeptide of the indicator cell c subsequent to step b diluting the first indicator cell suspension with a second solution to obtain a first substantially isosmolar mixture and diluting the second indicator cell suspension with the second solution to obtain a second substantially isosmolar mixture and d comparing a first level of indicator cell lysis in the first substantially isosmolar mixture to a second level of indicator cell lysis in the second substantially isosmolar mixture wherein the agent inhibits water transport across a cell membrane if the first level of indicator cell lysis is less than the second level of indicator cell lysis. In one specific embodiment the indicator cell endogenously expresses the at least one aquaporin polypeptide. Alternatively the indicator cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes the at least aquaporin polypeptide and that directs expression of the at least one aquaporin polypeptide in the indicator cell. In certain embodiments the at least one aquaporin AQP polypeptide is selected from AQP1 AQP2 AQP3 and AQP4. In other particular embodiments the indicator cell is a red blood cell. In certain embodiments the candidate agent is a member of a combinatorial library and in particular embodiments the candidate agent is a small molecule. In certain embodiments the solute is selected from urea a urea analogue a monosaccharide and a disaccharide wherein the urea analogue is selected from formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide. In one embodiment when the solute is urea and the hyperosmolar solution comprises 2.5 5.0 M urea the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 41 of the indicator cells in the first substantially isosmolar mixture and the second level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the second substantially isosmolar mixture. In another specific embodiment when the solute is a urea analogue the hyperosmolar solution comprises the urea analogue at a concentration of 2.0 3.5 M. In still another specific embodiment the solute is glucose and the hyperosmolar solution comprises glucose at a concentration of 2.0 3.5 M. In these embodiments the first level of indicator cell lysis indicates lysis of 0 to 41 of the indicator cells in the first substantially isosmolar mixture and the second level of lysis determined indicates lysis of 41 to 100 of the indicator cells in the second substantially isosmolar mixture.

Also provided herein in another embodiment is a method of identifying an agent that inhibits transport of a neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane which method comprises a preparing a first indicator cell suspension and a second indicator cell suspension wherein each of said first and second indicator cell suspensions comprises one or a plurality of cells suspended in a first solution that comprises a neutrally charged solute in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution the indicator cells being derived from a biological sample and each comprising at least one transporter polypeptide that is capable of transporting the solute across a cell membrane b contacting a candidate agent with the first indicator cell suspension of a under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the at least one transporter polypeptide of the indicator cell c subsequent to step b diluting the first indicator cell suspension with a second solution to obtain a first substantially isosmolar mixture and diluting the second indicator cell suspension with the second solution to obtain a second substantially isosmolar mixture and d comparing a first level of indicator cell lysis in the first substantially isosmolar mixture to a second level of indicator cell lysis in the second substantially isosmolar mixture wherein the agent inhibits transport of the solute across a cell membrane if the first level of indicator cell lysis is greater than the second level of indicator cell lysis. In one particular embodiment the solute is urea or an analogue thereof and the transporter polypeptide is a urea transporter polypeptide wherein the urea analogue is selected from formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide. In a specific embodiment the solute is urea and the at least one transporter polypeptide is a UT B transporter and in another specific embodiment the solute is urea and the at least one transporter polypeptide is at least one UT A transporter selected from a UT A1 isoform a UT A2 isoform a UT A3 isoform a UT A4 isoform and a UT A5 isoform. In still another specific embodiment the solute is a monosaccharide and the transporter polypeptide is a glucose transporter polypeptide wherein the monosaccharide is from glucose fructose or galactose and wherein the glucose transporter is selected from GLUT1 GLUT2 GLUT3 and GLUT4. In certain embodiments the indicator cell is a red blood cell.

In certain particular embodiments of the methods described above and herein when the indicator cell is a red blood cell the first level of indicator cell lysis and the second level of indicator cell lysis are determined by spectrophotometry. In one particular embodiment spectrophotometry comprises measuring absorbance at 710 nm.

Also provided herein in another embodiment is a method for treating a disease or disorder associated with a fluid retention imbalance comprising administering to a subject a composition comprising a pharmaceutically suitable excipient and a compound that inhibits transport of a neutrally charged solute by a solute transporter across a cell membrane. In certain embodiments the disease or disorder is selected from a cardiovascular disease syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention diabetes and abnormal uresis. In a particular embodiment the neutrally charged solute is urea and the transporter is a urea transporter.

In another embodiment a method is provided for treating a disease or disorder associated with a fluid retention imbalance comprising administering to a subject a composition comprising a pharmaceutically suitable excipient and a compound that inhibits transport of water by an aquaporin across a cell membrane. In certain embodiments the disease or disorder is selected from a cardiovascular disease syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention diabetes and abnormal uresis.

Also provided herein is a method for treating a disease or disorder associated with a urea clearance insufficiency comprising administering to a subject a composition comprising a pharmaceutically suitable excipient and a compound that inhibits transport of urea by a urea transporter across a cell membrane.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an agent includes a plurality of such agents and reference to the cell includes reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. The term about when referring to a number or a numerical range means that the number or numerical range referred to is an approximation within experimental variability or within statistical experimental error and thus the number or numerical range may vary between 1 and 15 of the stated number or numerical range. The term comprising and related terms such as comprise or comprises or having or including is not intended to exclude that in other certain embodiments for example an embodiment of any composition of matter composition method or process or the like described herein may consist of or consist essentially of the described features.

Provided herein are rapid and reproducible methods of identifying and characterizing potent specific agents that alter the volume of a cell particularly agents that alter the transport of small neutrally charged solutes i.e. lipid insoluble nonelectrolytes across a cell membrane and agents that alter transport of water across a cell membrane. The agents thus identified may be useful for treating diseases disorders and conditions related to aberrant transport of water and or aberrant transport of small neutrally charged solutes. Examples of such diseases disorders and conditions include diabetes conditions related to renal insufficiency hypertension fluid retention cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH and other renal cardiovascular and metabolic diseases and disorders.

The amount of water in the various compartments of a cell is controlled physiologically by homeostasis. To maintain osmotic homeostasis water is rapidly equilibrated across a cell membrane. Transmembrane proteins called aquaporins facilitate transport of water across cell membranes. Another process important to maintaining homeostasis of cell and body fluid compartments is transport or movement of small neutrally charged hydrophilic lipid insoluble molecules across cell membranes. Specific transmembrane transport proteins selectively transport small lipid insoluble molecules across cell membranes. As noted above certain diseases disorders and pathological conditions are related to are caused by or result from aberrant transport of water or a small neutrally charged solute or both.

The methods described herein have value in high throughput screening that is in automated screening of a large number of candidate agents that alter transport of a small neutrally charged solute or water in one or more cell types. The method may be used to screen synthetic or natural product libraries for bioactive agents. The methods described herein are therefore amenable to automated cost effective high throughput drug screening and have immediate application in a broad range of pharmaceutical drug development programs. In one embodiment the agents to be screened are organized in a high throughput screening format such as using microfluidics based devices or a 96 well plate format or other regular two dimensional array such as a 384 well 48 well or 24 well plate format or an array of test tubes. The format is therefore amenable to automation. An automated apparatus that is under the control of a computer or other programmable controller may be used for one or more steps of the methods described herein. A controller can monitor the results of each step of the process and can automatically alter the testing paradigm in response to those results.

In one embodiment the methods are provided that identify agents that alter the volume of a cell. Methods described herein employ osmotic lysis and are readily amenable to automated cost effective high throughput screening of large combinatorial libraries of agents drugs and pharmacophores to identify and characterize lead compounds. These methods may be performed more rapidly and are technically simpler than the methods that measure kinetics of water and or solute transport in a cell. The methods exploit two opposing transport processes in cells water transport and solute transport e.g. urea or glucose transport . These methods which are described in greater detail herein include steps of exposing cells to a high concentration outwardly directed gradient of a solute in a hyperosmolar solution for a time sufficient to cause the volume of the cells to decrease. The hyperosmolar mixture of cells is then diluted into another solution in which the solute is absent or at a significantly lower concentration than in the hyperosmolar solution to obtain a substantially isosmolar mixture. The rapid change in the osmolarity of the mixture causes a rapid influx of water such that complete or partial lysis of the cells occurs i.e. a disruption of the integrity of the outer cell membrane which can be determined by any number of techniques known in the art and described herein. Thus agents that inhibit transport of a neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane are detected by observing an increase in cell lysis compared to a control sample that does not contain the agent. An agent that inhibits transport of water by an aquaporin protects the cell from lysis and is thus detected by observing a decrease in cell lysis compared with a control sample that does not contain the agent.

Small neutrally charged molecules referred to herein are in general lipid insoluble and hydrophilic and include but are not limited to urea and analogues thereof glycerol monosaccharides e.g. glucose fructose galactose and ribose and disaccharides. In one embodiment methods are provided for identifying agents that alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the volume of a cell. In a specific embodiment the methods described herein may be used for identifying agents that alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner transport of a small neutrally charged solute across a cellular membrane. In yet another embodiment methods are provided that identify agents that alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner transport of water across a cell membrane. Transport across a cellular membrane includes transport of a solute as described herein or water across the outer cell membrane from the extracellular space or environment into the cell i.e. influx and includes transport of a solute or water out of the cell into the extracellular space i.e. efflux . In particular embodiments the methods described herein identify agents that alter water permeability or urea permeability of a cell. In other certain embodiments a cellular membrane refers to a membrane of an organelle such as a mitochondrion an organelle that also can change in volume as water and or solutes traverse the mitochondrial membrane.

In a specific embodiment a method of identifying and characterizing urea transporter UT inhibitors is provided that leads to the discovery of potent specific small molecule inhibitors of UTs. Previously the only available UT inhibitors included compounds that were nonspecific and exhibited moderate or low activity which include for example the non specific membrane intercalating agent phloretin exhibiting activity at 0.5 mM urea analogs such as thiourea methylurea and dimethylurea exhibiting activity at 50 100 mM see e.g. Mayrand et al. supra and chemically modified urea analogs exhibiting irreversible activity at 30 100 M Martial et al. 423 51 58 1993 . The method described herein was used to discover and characterize UT inhibitors that are drug like small molecules with high chemical diversity and high affinity.

An agent may alter transport of water or a neutrally charged solute either directly or indirectly. An agent that directly alters transport of a solute by a specific solute transporter or that alters transport of water by an aquaporin includes an agent that directly interacts with or binds to the transporter and thus alters i.e. increases or decreases in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of the transporter to transport its substrate i.e. a solute or water . Particularly useful agents include agents that inhibit or block the capability of a solute transporter to transport its specific solute or agents that inhibit or block the capability of an aquaporin to transport water.

The agents identified by the methods described herein may interact specifically with a family of solute transporters. For example an agent may interact with the family of urea transporters which includes both UT A and UT B transporters. Alternatively the agent may act specifically with a subfamily or class of a transporter family for example an agent may interact with UT A transporters but not interact specifically with UT B transporters. Agents may be identified that interact with at least one member of a subfamily but not all members of the subfamily. For example an agent may act with at least one at least two or more but not all UT A isoforms which include UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 UT A5 and UT A6. Similarly agents may be identified by the methods described herein that interact with all transporters in the family of glucose transporters. Other agents identified may interact with at least one or at least two or more but not all glucose transporters for example an agent may be identified that interacts with at least one of GLUT1 GLUT2 GLUT3 and GLUT4. The methods described herein may also be used to identify agents that interact with each member of the family of water transporters i.e. aquaporins or the methods described herein may be used to identify agents that interact with at least one at least two or more but not all aquaporin polypeptides.

In a specific embodiment a method is provided for identifying agents that alter transport of urea by at least one urea transporter UT i.e. alter urea permeability of a cell . In a more specific embodiment methods are provided to identify agents that inhibit i.e. block prevent interfere with abrogate or decrease transport of urea by at least one urea transporter UT polypeptide. In another specific embodiment the methods may be used to identify agents that alter transport of glucose by at least one glucose transporter. In yet a more specific embodiment methods are provided to identify agents that inhibit i.e. block prevent interfere with abrogate or decrease transport of glucose by at least one glucose transporter polypeptide. In another particular embodiment the methods are provided herein to identify agents that alter transport of water by at least one aquaporin across a cell membrane i.e. alter water permeability of a cell . In a more particular embodiment methods are provided to identify agents that inhibit the capability of at least one aquaporin to transport water across a cell membrane.

In one embodiment a method of identifying an agent that alters the volume of a cell comprises contacting exposing mixing suspending or placing an indicator cell or a plurality of indicator cells or a biological sample that contains an indicator cell or a plurality of indicator cells with a first solution which comprises at least one neutrally charged solute in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution. The mixture suspension composition sample or combination of indicator cells in the hyperosmolar solution is contacted with i.e. combined with mixed with or in some manner permitted to interact with a candidate agent under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the indicator cells. The osmolarity of the solution containing the indicator cells is then reduced to obtain a substantially isosmolar solution. The mixture suspension composition sample or combination of indicator cells in the hyperosmolar solution with or without the candidate agent is then added to i.e. diluted into combined with replaced by a second solution e.g. a physiological buffer diluent or media to obtain a substantially isosmolar mixture. The second solution lacks the at least one neutrally charged solute or the second solution comprises a significantly lower concentration of the at least one neutrally charged solute. For example the hyperosmolar solution may be replaced if the cells are adherent cells by removing the hyperosmolar solution and then adding an isosmolar solution to the container comprising the adherent cells. If the indicator cells are in suspension the hyperosmolar solution may be diluted by the addition of a second solution that lacks the neutrally charged solute. The hyperosmolar mixture suspension composition sample or combination of cells is added to a sufficient volume of the isosmolar solution to immediately and rapidly change the osmolarity of the hyperosmolar mixture suspension composition sample or combination to a substantially isosmolar mixture suspension composition sample or combination. In other words the adjustment in osmolarity of the hyperosmolar solution comprising the indicator cells to a substantially isosmolar solution comprising the indicator cells need not be accomplished gradually or slowly over time.

To determine whether a candidate agent alters the volume of a cell the level of indicator cell lysis in the substantially isosmolar mixture suspension composition sample or combination of indicator cells in the presence of the candidate agent i.e. also called herein a first level of indicator cell lysis is compared with a second level of indicator cell lysis which is the level of lysis of the indicator cell in a control sample that is not contacted with a candidate agent. The level of lysis of indicator cells in control samples that lack the candidate agent is typically determined in parallel and concurrently with determining the level of lysis of indicator cells in the samples containing a candidate agent. In certain instances the level of indicator cell lysis in the control samples that lack the candidate agent may be determined prior to analysis of samples containing a candidate agent. The number of control samples included in the method the composition of control samples i.e. including or excluding certain components such as an agent or composition that is known to be capable of altering transport of a solute or water across a cell membrane i.e. positive control and the time at which the control samples are prepared and evaluated are described herein and can also be readily deter mined by a person skilled in the assay method art.

Osmolarity is a measure of osmoles of a solute per liter of solution and osmolality is a measure of moles of a solute per kilogram of solvent. An osmole is a unit of measure that defines the number of moles of a solute in a solution that contributes to the osmotic pressure of the solution. For example a mole of glucose in a solution or a mole of urea in a solution is one osmole of glucose or urea. However for certain solutes that dissociate in a solution into two or more ions the osmolarity is commensurate with the number of ions. For example a mole of sodium chloride in a solution is two osmoles because sodium chloride has one mole of sodium ion and one mole of chlorine ion and sodium chloride will dissociate into a sodium ion and a chloride ion in a solution. Osmotic pressure also called osmotic potential is the hydrostatic pressure exerted by a solution across a perfect semi permeable membrane i.e. one which allows free passage or diffusion of water and completely prevents movement of a solute due to a differential in the concentration of the solutes that is the force exerted to induce water flow. Water flows from a low osmolarity to a high osmolarity at a rate directly proportional to the difference gradient in osmolarity.

Use of terms such as hyperosmolar and hyposmolar implies comparison between two solutions or between two fluid compartments. By way of example one fluid compartment may be intracellular and the second fluid compartment may be the extracellular space. Thus when indicator cells are placed in a solution made hyperosmolar by the presence of a particular solute e.g. urea a urea analogue or a monosaccharide such as glucose the concentration of a solute or solutes is greater than the intracellular concentration of the solute s and water in cells that are placed in a hyperosmolar solution will flow out of the cell which in turn results in the volume of the cell decreasing. When the hyperosmolar solution containing the cells in then diluted into or replaced by a solution in which the solute is at a significantly lower concentration than in the hyperosmolar solution or the solute is absent thus exposing the cells to a substantially isosmolar solution water flows into the cell. In the absence of an inhibitor of solute transport the opposing process that occurs is the transport of the solute out of the cell by at least one transporter capable of transporting the solute. As used herein the flow or movement of water across a cell membrane in the indicator cells includes facilitated transport of water by at least one aquaporin and does not solely result from simple diffusion of water across a cell membrane.

The osmolality of a solution that contains more than one solute may be determined empirically by methods known in the art and described herein that measure colligative properties of solutions i.e. properties that are independent of the nature of the particle and are dependent only on the concentration of solute particles in a solution . A commonly used method for determining osmolality is freezing point depression osmometry. The freezing point depression is the difference between the freezing point of a pure solvent and the solvent that contains a solute and therefore is directly proportional to the molal concentration of the solution. Instruments that measure freezing point depression are commercially available. Osmolality of solutions may also be determined by measuring other colligative properties such as osmotic pressure depression of vapor pressure and elevation of boiling point using methods and techniques practiced in the art.

Provided herein are methods of identifying an agent that alters the volume of a cell. In one embodiment a first indicator cell sample is prepared and a second indicator cell sample is prepared wherein each of the first and second indicator cell samples comprises one or a plurality of indicator cells combined with a first solution that comprises a neutrally charged solute in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution wherein the indicator cells are derived from a biological sample. Exemplary solutes include urea a urea analog e.g. formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide glycerol a monosaccharide e.g. glucose fructose galactose ribose or a disaccharide. The hyperosmolar solution includes a physiological solvent that is an appropriate diluent or media for the particular cells and includes the solute or an analogue of the solute i.e. a compound that is structurally and chemically similar to the solute at a concentration sufficient that upon exposure of the indicator cells to the hyperosmolar solution the volume of the indicator cell decreases due to the flow of water out of the cell efflux .

The indicator cells may be combined with the hyperosmolar solution in any of a variety of containers or sample vessels including test tubes multi well plates such as 48 well 72 well 96 well plates 384 well plates or other such vessels including those useful for high throughput screening formats wherein for example detection of indicator cell lysis in a plurality or reaction vessels may be automated. The cells may be in suspension or adhered to a surface. When cells are adherent cells the surface to which the cells are adhered may be solid such as a tissue culture plate e.g. 24 well 48 well 72 well 96 well plates 384 well plate or the cells may be adhered to microcarrier beads. Alternatively the surface on which the cells adhere may be porous such that the apical cell surface and basolateral cell surface may be exposed to or bathed in the solutions described herein.

The number of samples to be assayed may influence the degree of automation that can be implemented. For example when high throughput screening i.e. assaying a large number of samples in a relatively brief time period is desired robotic or semi robotic instruments may be used. In certain instances microfluidics multiplexing technologies may be employed see e.g. Thorsen et al. Science 298 580 84 2002 Manz and Becker eds. Springer 1999 Zhang et al CRC Press 2002 Tabeling Oxford University Press 2006 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 969 850 6 878 755 6 454 924 6 681 788 6 284 113 . Alternatively samples may be processed manually even for formats that accommodate large sample numbers e.g. 96 well microplates .

Each vessel tube or well herein referred to as sample of indicator cells is maintained in i.e. exposed to placed in combined with or incubated in the hyperosmolar solution under conditions and for a time sufficient for the volume of the cell to decrease due to the directional flow of water out of the cell. Conditions for maintaining or incubating the indicator cells in a hyperosmolar solution include for example temperature agitation and speed of agitation or other methods of maintaining the cells in suspension if the cells are suspension cells that is cells that are not adhered to a surface vessel container or multi well plate atmosphere for example the indicator cells may be a cell that requires an atmosphere containing carbon dioxide at a level typical for maintaining viability of cultured cells and other conditions with which a person skilled in the art will be familiar.

The conditions and the period of time that the indicator cells are incubated in the hyperosmolar solution can be determined empirically for the type of indicator cell that is used. The temperature at which the cells may be incubated in the hyperosmolar solution may be a temperature or a range of temperatures considered ambient room temperature e.g. between approximately 19 C. 26 C. or between approximately 21 C. 25 C. or may be a temperature or range of temperatures considered physiological for animal cells e.g. 37 C. or any temperature between 35 to 40 C. . Generally the cells are placed in a hyperosmolar solution for at least 15 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 60 minutes 1 hour at least 90 minutes or at least 120 minutes 2 hours or at least 180 minutes 3 hours or at least 240 minutes 4 hours or longer than 4 hours. By way of example if the indicator cells are red blood cells the cells may be placed in the hyperosmolar solution for 30 minutes to 120 minutes.

To a sample of indicator cells in a hyperosmolar solution may be added at least one candidate agent. In certain instances such as when the methods described herein are used for screening a library with thousands of agents at least two three four or more candidate agents may be added to the indicator cells in a hyperosmolar solution. At least one subsequent assay may be performed whereby the candidate agents that were added together in a single sample of indicator cells in the hyperosmolar solution in a first assay may then be contacted separately with indicator cells. The indicator cells and the candidate agent are permitted to interact i.e. by combining mixing contacting under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the indicator cell and particularly to interact with a solute transporter or aquaporin of the indicator cell. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that appropriate conditions to permit interaction between the candidate agent and the indicator cell include temperature agitation and speed of agitation or other methods of maintaining contact between the indicator cells and the candidate agent and atmosphere and the like as described herein. The kinetics of binding of a transporter and an agent that alters the capability of a solute transporter to transport the solute may be rapid. Thus in certain instances the time sufficient for an indicator cell and candidate agent to interact may be 1 2 minutes 3 4 minutes 5 6 minutes 7 8 minutes or 9 10 minutes. In other instances the time sufficient may be at least 10 15 20 25 or 30 minutes or longer than 30 minutes.

After a sufficient time for the indicator cell and the candidate agent to interact the osmolarity of the sample is decreased to place the indicator cells in a substantially isosmolar solution. The osmolarity of the sample may be reduced by removing the hyperosmolar solution and replacing the hyperosmolar solution with a second solution e.g. a physiological buffer diluent or media that lacks the neutrally charged solute or that has a significantly reduced number of osmoles of the solute compared with the hyperosmolar solution such that a mixture suspension or sample of the indicator cells in an isosmolar solution is obtained. Alternatively the hyperosmolar mixture combination or sample of the indicator cells in the absence and presence of the candidate agent is diluted into a second solution e.g. a physiological buffer diluent or media to obtain a substantially isosmolar mixture. The percent dilution or fold dilution of the hyperosmolar solution to provide a substantially isosmolar mixture may also be determined empirically for a particular type of indicator cell and is the fold dilution sufficient to observe an increase in the volume of the indicator cell as water flows into the cell. The osmoles in a substantially isosmolar mixture may be reduced at least ten fold compared with the osmoles of the hyperosmolar solution. For example if the hyperosmolar is 1500 mOsm the substantially isosmolar mixture may be about 150 mOsm. In certain embodiments the osmoles in a substantially isosmolar mixture may be reduced between seven eight nine or ten fold compared with the osmoles in the hyperosmolar solution. In other certain embodiments the osmoles in a substantially isosmolar mixture may be reduced 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 fold or greater compared with the osmoles in the hyperosmolar solution.

To determine whether the interaction of the candidate agent with the cell alters the volume of the indicator cells the level of lysis of the indicator cells in the substantially isosmolar solution in the absence and presence of the agent is determined. Lysis as used herein refers to complete or total lysis of a cell i.e. complete and total disruption or loss of outer cell membrane integrity or partial lysis of the cell i.e. partial or incomplete disruption of the outer cell membrane integrity . The loss of integrity of the outer cell membrane whether partial or complete can be quantified using techniques practiced in the art and described herein.

The level of cell lysis may be determined by assessing the release of an intracellular molecule which may be detected by methods that detect a structural or functional feature of a specific intracellular molecule such as by detecting specific binding of the intracellular molecule to an antibody or other specific ligand or by measuring an enzymatic activity of the intracellular molecule. Release of an intracellular or cytoplasmic polypeptide or other molecule means that the polypeptide or other cellular molecule that is typically intracellular i.e. located in the cytoplasm of the cell or in an organelle of the cell but not secreted under normal physiological conditions when the cell is viable and intact can be detected extracellularly.

Accordingly methods and techniques that may be used to determine the level of cell lysis include any number of immunoassay methods e.g. ELISA radioimmunoassay immunoprecipitation for detecting release of a cytoplasmic polypeptide or other molecule from the cell. Antibodies that specifically bind to a cellular polypeptide or other cellular molecule may be available from commercial vendors or can be prepared using methods routinely practiced by persons skilled in the art. The level of indicator cell lysis may be determined by detecting release of a specific intracellular molecule or of multiple intracellular molecules by labeling the cells with a detectable moiety prior to placing the cells in the hyperosmolar solution. Exemplary detectable moieties which may also be called tags reporter molecules or labels include a dye radionuclide luminescent group fluorescent group or biotin or the like. Methods for labeling cells with a reporter molecule and for detecting the reporter molecule are known to and routinely practiced by a person skilled in the art. Cell lysis may also be determined by techniques that detect the enzymatic activity of a specific intracellular enzyme. Other methods and techniques for determining the level of cell lysis include detecting a released intracellular molecule or molecules by methods that include mass spectrometry chromatography e.g. affinity chromatography wherein a ligand of an intracellular molecule is attached to a chromatography matrix and spectrophotometry.

Spectrophotometric measurements may be determined at a wavelength in the visible or ultraviolet spectrum. In one embodiment the level of lysis of indicator cells such as lysis of red blood cells can be quantified by determining the absorbance at 710 nm of a sample Mazeron et al. 72 172 78 2000 Cohn et al. 132 27 34 2003 . Absorbance at 710 nm decreases as lysis of red blood cells increases. Thus a sample that contains an inhibitor of a solute transporter which has an increased level of red blood cell lysis compared to a sample that does not contain a solute transporter inhibitor exhibits a decreased level of absorbance at 710 nm compared with a control sample i.e. in the absence of an inhibitor .

Other techniques for quantifying lysis of cells may be specific for one or more different types of indicator cells. For example when the indictor cells are red blood cells cell lysis may be quantified by quantifying hemoglobin which may be accomplished spectrophotometrically by chemical methods or by any number of immunoassays practiced in the art. Additional exemplary methods for detecting red blood cell lysis include quantifying ATP that is released by the cell Moehlenbrock et al. 131 930 7 2006 Epub Jun. 6 2006 determining the level of cytoplasmic lactate dehydrogenase released which can be measured in an enzymatic assay or in any number of immunoassays using an antibody that specifically binds to lactate dehydrogenase or determining the level of oxygen released.

To determine whether an agent alters the volume of the indicator cell the level of cell lysis of indicator cells that are contacted with a candidate agent herein also called a first level of cell lysis is compared with the level of lysis of indicator cells in the control sample that lacks the candidate agent herein also called a second level of cell lysis . A control sample may be prepared in which all assay conditions and components are identical to those described above except that the candidate agent is omitted from the sample i.e. indicator cells have not been contacted or combined with a candidate agent . Alternatively or in addition to such a control sample at least one other control sample may include all the components of a sample that includes the candidate agent but instead of the candidate agent the sample contains a compound or molecule that is known not to alter the volume of a cell. A person skilled in the art will also appreciate that the methods described herein may include additional control samples including a sample comprising a known compound or agent that is capable of altering the volume of a cell to evaluate and ensure the robustness accuracy and precision of the method.

As described herein in one embodiment altering the volume of an indicator cell comprises altering transport of a neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane which may occur by altering the capability of a transporter polypeptide to transport the solute. In a particular embodiment the methods described herein may be used to identify an agent that inhibits transport of a neutrally charged solute by a transporter across a cell membrane. The indicator cell may endogenously express transporter i.e. the genome of the cell comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes the transporter which is transcribed into mRNA that is translated . Alternatively the transporter may be recombinantly expressed in an indicator cell that comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that directs the expression of the transporter polypeptide. In a particular embodiment the transporter is located in the outer cell membrane and is capable of transporting a solute into the cell from the extracellular environment or space influx and out of the cell into the extracellular environment or space efflux .

In one embodiment the methods described herein for identifying agents that alter the volume of a cell may be used to identify agents that alter transport of a small neutrally charged solute by a transporter. In a particular embodiment a method is provided for identifying an agent that inhibits i.e. blocks prevents reduces or decreases in a statistically or biologically significant manner the capability of a transporter to transport a specific solute across a cell membrane and thus inhibits solute influx and or efflux. An agent that inhibits the capability of a transporter to transport a specific solute may bind to the transporter such that transport of the solute into the cell from the extracellular space is inhibited and or the agent may bind to the transporter such that transport of the solute out of the cell into the extracellular space is inhibited.

As described herein methods are provided for identifying an agent that inhibits transport of a neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane or influx or efflux of the solute . The methods comprise combining mixing or contacting indicator cells that may be derived from obtained from or present in a biological sample with a hyperosmolar solution to obtain a mixture combination or sample of the indicator cells in hyperosmolar conditions. The hyperosmolar solution includes a physiological solvent that is an appropriate diluent or media for the particular cells and includes the solute or an analogue of the solute i.e. a compound that is structurally and chemically similar to the solute at a concentration sufficient that upon exposure of the indicator cells to the hyperosmolar solution the volume of the indicator cell decreases due to the flow of water out of the cell efflux .

In one embodiment the solute in the hyperosmolar solution comprises a solute or analogue thereof at a concentration of about 1.25 M or may be between about 1.0 1.5 M between about 0.5 2.0 M or between about 1.0 1.75 M. The concentration of the solute or analogue thereof may be optimized by titration experiments so that an agent that inhibits the capability of a transporter to transport the solute is readily distinguished i.e. quantifiably distinguishable from the controls.

As described herein after placing the indicator cells in a hyperosmolar solution at least one candidate agent is added to the hyperosmolar mixture suspension or sample of indicator cells under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to contact and interact with the indicator cells and in particular under conditions and a time sufficient for the candidate agent s to contact a solute transporter expressed by the indicator cell. The hyperosmolar mixture sample or suspension of cells and a candidate agent is then diluted into or combined with or replaced with a second solution e.g. a physiological buffer diluent or media that contains a reduced amount or totally lacks the solute of the hyperosmolar solution to obtain a substantially isosmolar mixture. The capability of the candidate agent s to inhibit transport of the solute by the solute transporter is then determined by comparing the level of indicator cell lysis in a sample that comprises the candidate agent s with the level of indicator cell lysis in a sample that lacks the candidate agent s .

The level of lysis partial or complete as described herein in indicator cells e.g. red blood cells in the presence of an agent i.e. also referred to herein as a first level of lysis that is an inhibitor of a solute transporter is greater than the level of lysis in indicator cells that are not exposed to an inhibitor of the solute transporter i.e. also referred to herein as a second level of indicator cell lysis . When the indicator cells in the hyperosmolar mixture comprising an active agent are transferred to exposed to resuspended in placed in or diluted into a substantially isosmolar solution the indicator cells are incapable of transporting the solute out of the cell thus entry of water into cells from the extracellular environment results in partial or total cell lysis. For example in a sample that does not contain an agent or that contains an inactive agent lysis between 0 40 0 30 0 20 0 15 or 0 10 of the indicator cells may be observed. In a sample that contains an inhibitor of a transporter lysis of between 41 100 50 100 60 100 70 100 80 100 or 90 100 of the indicator cells may be observed.

In a specific embodiment the methods described herein and above are useful for identifying inhibitors of aquaporin polypeptides that transport both a solute such as glycerol and water e.g. AQP3 AQP7 and AQP9 . In a particular embodiment a method is provided for identifying an agent that inhibits i.e. blocks prevents reduces or decreases in a statistically or biologically significant manner transport of glycerol by an aquaporin across a cell membrane and thus inhibits glycerol influx and or efflux. Without wishing to be bound b theory such an inhibitor that interacts with an aquaporin to inhibit transport of a solute such as glycerol would likely inhibit the capability of the transporter to transport water across a membrane. Indicator cells used in this particular embodiment would also comprise an aquaporin that transports only water e.g. AQP0 AQP1 AQP2 AQP4 AQP5 AQP6 and AQP8 . As described herein the indicator cells are placed in a solution that comprises a neutrally charged solute e.g. glycerol in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution. The hyperosmolar solution includes a physiological solvent that is an appropriate diluent or media for cells. After contacting the indicators cells in the hyperosmolar solution with at least one candidate agent the hyperosmolar solution may be removed replaced or diluted such that the indicator cells are in a glycerol free or solute free medium that is substantially isosmolar. As described above an increase in cell lysis compared to a similarly prepared sample in the absence of a candidate agent indicates that the compound is an inhibitor of the solute transporting aquaporin.

In certain embodiments the solute is a monosaccharide such as glucose fructose ribose or galactose and in other certain embodiments the solute is a disaccharide. As described herein the methods may be used to identify agents that alter transport of glucose across a cell membrane including influx of glucose from the extracellular environment into the cell and efflux of glucose from the cell into the extracellular environment by any one of the glucose transporters described herein and in the art.

In another specific embodiment the methods described herein for identifying agents that alter the volume of a cell may be used to identify agents that alter transport of urea or an analogue thereof by a urea transporter thus altering urea permeability of the cell. In a particular embodiment a method is provided for identifying an agent that inhibits i.e. blocks prevents reduces or decreases in a statistically or biologically significant manner transport of urea by a urea transporter across a cell membrane and thus inhibits urea influx and or efflux. An agent that inhibits the capability of a urea transporter to transport urea may bind to the urea transporter such that transport of urea into the cell from the extracellular space is inhibited or may bind to the urea transporter such that transport of urea out of the cell into the extracellular space is inhibited or may inhibit both influx and efflux of urea.

A method for identifying an agent that inhibits transport of urea across a cell membrane or influx or efflux of urea comprises preparing a mixture suspension or sample of indicator cells which are obtained from or derived from a biological sample and a hyperosmolar solution to obtain a mixture suspension or sample of the indicator cells in hyperosmolar conditions. The hyperosmolar solution includes a physiological solvent that is an appropriate diluent or media for cells and includes urea or a urea analog including but not limited to formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide at a concentration sufficient to result in a decrease in volume of an indicator cell due to flow of water out of the cell efflux when the indicator cells are placed into or incubated in the hyperosmolar solution.

In one embodiment urea is the solute in the hyperosmolar solution. The concentration of urea in a hyperosmolar solution may be any concentration between about 2.0 3.0 M or in certain other embodiments between about 1.5 3.0 M or between about 2.3 2.7 M. In another embodiment the hyperosmolar solution comprises a urea analogue which may be at a concentration of about 1.25 M or may be any concentration between about 1.0 1.5 M or between about 0.5 2.0 M or between about 1.0 1.75 M. The concentration of urea or a urea analogue may be optimized by titration experiments so that an agent that inhibits transport of urea by a urea transporter is readily distinguished i.e. quantifiably distinguishable from the controls. For example in a control sample that does not contain an agent or that contains an inactive agent lysis of between 0 40 0 30 0 20 0 15 or 0 10 of the indicator cells e.g. red blood cells may be observed. In a sample that contains an inhibitor of a urea transporter lysis of between 41 100 50 to 100 60 to 100 70 to 100 80 to 100 or 90 to 100 of indicator cells may be observed.

As described herein indicator cells used in the methods for identifying agents that inhibit transport of urea by a urea transporter may include cells that endogenously express at least one urea transporter or that recombinantly express at least one urea transporter. In a particular embodiment the indicator cells are red blood cells that endogenously express the UT B urea transporter. The red blood cells may be obtained from any animal including human and non human primates rodents and other mammals. The solute of the hyperosmolar solution and the optimal concentration of the solute i.e. urea or a urea analogue may vary depending on the source of the indicator cell which optimal concentration may be readily determined using the methods described herein. For example in certain embodiments the indicator cell is a human red blood cell and the hyperosmolar solution contains a urea analogue such as acetamide. In another particular embodiment the red blood cells are obtained from a rodent such as a mouse or a rat and the urea analogue N methylurea is the solute comprising the hyperosmolar solution.

In still another embodiment the methods described herein for identifying agents that alter the volume of a cell may be used to identify agents that alter transport of water by an aquaporin i.e. facilitated or active transport of water by an aquaporin transporter thus identifying an agent capable of altering water permeability of a cell. In a particular embodiment a method is provided for identifying an agent that inhibits i.e. blocks prevents reduces or decreases in a statistically or biologically significant manner the capability of an aquaporin to transport water across a cell membrane and thus inhibits water influx and or efflux. An agent that inhibits transport of water across a cell membrane may bind to the aquaporin such that transport of water into the cell influx from the extracellular space is inhibited or may bind to the aquaporin such that transport of water out of the cell efflux into the extracellular space is inhibited or may inhibit both influx and efflux of water.

A method for identifying an agent that inhibits transport of water across a cell membrane or influx or efflux of water comprises preparing a mixture suspension or sample of indicator cells which are obtained from or derived from a biological sample e.g. red blood cells and a hyperosmolar solution to obtain a mixture suspension or sample of the indicator cells in hyperosmolar conditions. The indicator cell may endogenously express an aquaporin i.e. the genome of the cell comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes an aquaporin which is transcribed into mRNA that is translated . For example the indicator cells may be human red blood cells that endogenously express AQP1. Alternatively the indicator cell may express at least one aquaporin recombinantly that is the indicator cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes and directs the expression of the aquaporin polypeptide.

The hyperosmolar solution comprises a physiological solvent that is an appropriate diluent or media for cells and comprises a small neutrally charged solute such as urea or a urea analog including but not limited to formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide or a monosaccharide such as glucose at a concentration sufficient to result in a decrease in volume of an indicator cell due to flow of water out of the cell efflux when the indicator cells are placed into or incubated in the hyperosmolar solution. In certain embodiments in the methods for identifying aquaporin inhibitors the concentration of the solute in the hyperosmolar solution is greater than in a hyperosmolar solution that is used in the methods for identifying an agent that inhibits a neutrally charged solute transporter. Accordingly in one embodiment urea is used to prepare the hyperosmolar solution and the concentration of urea in the hyperosmolar solution may be at any concentration between about 2.5 5.0 M or in certain other embodiments between about 3.1 6.0 M between about 3.1 5.0 M or between about 3.1 4.0 M. In another embodiment the hyperosmolar solution comprises a urea analogue or a monosaccharide e.g. glucose which may be at a concentration of about 2.0 3.5 M or between about 2.0 2.5 M between about 2.5 3.0 M or between 3.0 3.5 M or between about 2.5 3.5 M. The concentration of urea a urea analogue a monosaccharide or other neutrally charged small solute may be optimized by titration experiments so that an agent that inhibits the capability of an aquaporin to transport water is readily distinguished i.e. quantifiably distinguishable from the controls.

The hyperosmolar solution that contains the indicator cells i.e. sample suspension or mixture is then contacted with at least one candidate agent under conditions and for a time sufficient as described herein for the candidate agent to interact with e.g. bind to at least one aquaporin that is endogenously expressed or recombinantly expressed by the indicator cells. The indicator cells and the candidate agent are then removed from the hyperosmolar solution and combined with or diluted into a second solution e.g. a physiological buffer diluent or media that contains a reduced amount or totally lacks the solute of the hyperosmolar solution to obtain a substantially isosmolar solution as described herein. After a period of time as described above the level of lysis of the indicator cells in the presence of the agent is determined and compared with the level of lysis of the indicator cells in the absence of the agent. In the absence of an aquaporin inhibitor in either a control sample or a test sample containing an inactive agent the influx of water into the indicator cells is rapid as the cell adapts to the change in the osmolar gradient. The rapid influx of water into the cells results in total or partial lysis of the indicator cells. An inhibitor of an aquaporin thus protects the cell from lysis i.e. inhibits prevents or decreases cell lysis . Therefore the level of lysis of the indicator cells contacted with a candidate agent is less than the level of lysis of indicator cells that were not contacted with the candidate agent thus indicating that the agent decreases or reduces the water permeability of the cell. For example in a control sample that does not contain an agent or that contains an inactive agent the percent of indicator cells lysed may be between 41 100 50 100 60 100 70 100 80 100 or 90 100 . In a sample that contains an inhibitor of an aquaporin the percent of indicator cells lysed may be between 0 40 0 30 0 20 0 15 or 0 10 .

Agents that alter transport of a neutrally charged small solute or water by a solute transporter or an aquaporin respectively may be analyzed and further characterized by additional methods and techniques described herein and practiced in the art. Agents identified according to the methods described herein may be further characterized in dose response experiments using the same cell lysis methods to determine the effective concentration of the agents. For example an effective concentration of an inhibitor of a solute transporter EC may be calculated by non linear regression to the equation lysis lysis lysis inh EC inh where inh is inhibitor concentration and H is the Hill coefficient.

To characterize particular agents stopped flow light scattering to measure solute and water permeabilities of a cell may be performed see e.g. Yang et al. 277 36782 86 2002 Epub 2002 Jul. 19 Macey et al. 134 3 241 50 1993 . For example to determine urea permeability of a cell dilutions of indicator cells such as red blood cells may be incubated with an agent and then subjected to an inwardly directed gradient of urea. After the cells osmotically shrink i.e. the cell volume decreases the kinetics of increasing cell volume caused by urea influx can be measured over a time course during which the cells are exposed to 90 scattered light intensity at 530 nm. As the volume of the cell increases scattered light intensity is reduced.

Stopped flow light scattering may also be used to determine ECvalues for inhibition by a solute transporter and may also be used to determine the sidedness of inhibitor action i.e. whether the inhibitor alters a solute transporter activity by preventing or inhibiting entry of a solute into the cell or whether the inhibitor alters a solute transport activity by preventing or inhibiting efflux of the inhibitor from the cell .

In certain embodiments altering the volume of a cell comprises altering transport of a small neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane by a transporter polypeptide. The methods described herein may be used for identifying agents that alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of a transporter polypeptide to transport a solute across a cell membrane. As described herein transport of small neutrally charged solutes and transport of water across a cell membrane can affect the volume of a cell. The methods described herein may be used to identify agents that inhibit or that promote the capability of a transporter to transport such a neutrally charged solute. Transporter polypeptides capable of transporting small neutrally charged solutes include but are not limited to urea transporter polypeptides aquaporin polypeptides and glucose transporter polypeptides.

The methods described herein may be used to identify agents that alter transport of a neutrally charged small molecule solute by a transporter expressed by animal cells. The animal may be a mammal which may be a human non human primate rodent e.g. rat mouse hamster rabbit cow goat sheep pig camel llama cat dog or other mammal.

In certain embodiments altering the volume of a cell comprises altering transport of urea across a cell membrane by a transporter polypeptide. Accordingly in one embodiment methods are provided for identifying potent inhibitors of urea transporters that can be used for treating diseases and conditions that result from are associated with or caused by aberrant urea transport in a cell. Previously the only available UT inhibitors included compounds that were nonspecific and that exhibited moderate or low activity such as the non specific membrane intercalating agent phloretin exhibiting activity at 0.5 mM urea analogs such as thiourea methylurea and dimethylurea exhibiting activity at 50 100 mM see e.g. Mayrand et al. 81 221 37 1983 and chemically modified urea analogs exhibiting irreversible activity at 30 100 M Martial et al. 423 51 58 1993 .

Conservation of water in mammals depends significantly on the transport of urea particularly in the kidney. Urea is generated as the major end product of hepatic nitrogen metabolism and is excreted primarily by the kidney. Urea and sodium chloride are the major solutes in the hyperosmolar renal medulla. In the antidiuretic kidney urea is greatly concentrated with respect to plasma up to 100 times in humans and 250 times in rodents by countercurrent multiplication and exchange mechanisms Bankir et al. 6th Edition pages 637 679 Brenner B M ed. WB Saunders Company Philadelphia Pa. 2000 . Of central importance to these mechanisms is intrarenal urea recycling which requires facilitated urea transport by molecular urea transporters UTs . UTs are comprised of two major subfamilies encoded by different genes UT A and UT B see e.g. Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Shayakul et al. 447 603 609 2004 Yang et al. 273 9369 72 1998 . In kidney a single UT B isoform is expressed in vasa recta while several splice variant UT A type transporters are expressed in kidney tubule epithelia see e.g. Sands 13 525 32 2004 . See also Karakashian et al. 10 230 37 1999 Sands 67 112 19 2000 and Leroy et al. 271 368 73 2000 .

In one embodiment methods are providing for identifying agents that alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of a urea transporter to transport urea across a cell membrane. In a particular embodiment the methods described herein are useful for identifying agents that are inhibitors of a urea transporter that is agents that inhibit transport of urea across a cell membrane by at least one urea transporter. The methods may be used to identify agents that specifically interact with all urea transporters to identify agents that specifically interact with only one subfamily of urea transporter i.e. either UT A transporters or UT B transporters and or to identify agents that specifically interact with at least one but not all UT A transporters.

As described herein a urea transporter may be endogenously expressed by an indicator cell. Alternatively an indicator cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide i.e. a polynucleotide that is introduced into a cell for recombinant expression of the transporter polypeptide that encodes the urea transporter polypeptide and that directs expression of the transporter polypeptide in the indicator cell. The indicator cell may be transfected transduced or transformed with a recombinant expression vector that comprises such a polynucleotide according to molecular biology methods practiced in the art and described above. Exemplary nucleotide sequences that encode urea transporters such as urea transporters in humans and rodents are known in the art and are also readily available from public databases.

Five UT A urea transporter isoforms UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5 are encoded by alternatively splicing of the Slc14A2 gene see e.g. Bagnasco et al. 281 F400 F406 2001 Shayakul et al. 447 603 609 2004 Bagnasco 450 217 26 2005 Sands 13 525 32 2004 Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Sands et al. 273 F321 39 1997 Sands 65 543 66 2003 . The Slc14A1 gene encodes a single UT B isoform see e.g. Sands 13 525 32 2004 Lucien et al. 273 12973 80 1998 Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Sidoux et al. 274 30228 35 1999 see also e.g. Tsukaguchi et al. 99 1506 15 1997 . Exemplary nucleotide sequences and the encoded polypeptide sequences may be found for example in GenBank Accession Nos. NM 007163.2 UT A BC110445.1 UT A BC110446.1 UT A NM 007163.2 UT A AF349446.1 UT A1 X96969.1 UT A2 NM 015865.1 UT B AY942197.1 UT B BC050539.1 UT B and Y19039.1 UT B .

An opposing transport process to the transport of urea in cells is the transport of water. Water a very polar molecule may be transported through cell membranes which comprise a lipid bilayer by water channels composed of polypeptides known in the art as aquaporins. Aquaporins AQPs are a ubiquitous family of proteins characterized by sequence similarity and the presence of two tripeptide Asp Pro Ala motifs. The first transmembrane protein identified as a water transporter was cloned from mammalian red blood cells and was called CHIP28 for channel forming integral protein of 28 kDal. Virtually all mammalian cells incorporate aquaporins into their cell membranes. Presently at least twelve polypeptides that form water channels in human cells have been identified see e.g. Goodman 26 146 57 2002 Magni et al. 6 5637 49 2006 Verkman 26 200 208 2006 . The human AQPs are divided into two subgroups according to their capability to transport only water molecules e.g. AQP0 AQP1 AQP2 AQP4 AQP5 AQP6 and AQP8 or also transport glycerol and other small solutes e.g. AQP3 AQP7 AQP9 AQP10 AQP12 Magni et al. 6 5637 49 2006 .

Aquaporins have been identified in cells of the eye and blood brain barrier salivary glands lungs heart spleen pancreas colon red blood cells and various parts of the nephron. Functions of aquaporins include facilitating water reabsorption in the kidney assisting in maintaining fluid balance by facilitating rapid transepithelial transport and minimizing the osmotic gradient and volume changes between cells and interstitium in the kidney see e.g. Ishibashi et al. 13 137 42 1998 Verkman Landis Austin Tex. 1993 Verkman 9 517 22 2000 . In addition the amount of aquaporin polypeptides present in a cell and the capability of a cell to perform regulatory volume changes may be important for fluid secretions from exocrine glands.

By way of background several aquaporins may be expressed in several cell types. For example Aquaporin 0 is the major intrinsic protein MIP of lens fibre cells of the eye. The aquaporin initially called CHIP28 is now referred to aquaporin 1 in the art. Aquaporin AQP1 is found in erythrocytes and is also found in the choroid plexus the proximal tubule and descending limb of the loop of Henle in the kidney. Aquaporin 2 AQP2 also called WCH CD in the art forms the water channel of the principal cell of the cortical and medullary collecting duct. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus NDI the inability to produce concentrated urine can result from several different malfunctions in the AQP2 system which is controlled by anti diuretic hormone ADH . AQP3 AQP4 and AQP5 may be found in several tissues. In the kidney AQP3 and AQP4 are located in the basolateral membrane of the renal cortical and medullary principal cell. AQP3 is also found in the gastrointestinal tract and AQP4 is found in the brain.

In one embodiment methods are providing for identifying agents that alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of an aquaporin to transport water across a cell membrane. In a particular embodiment the methods described herein are useful for identifying agents that are inhibitors of a water transporter that is agents that inhibit transport of water by at least one aquaporin across a cell membrane. The methods may be used to identify agents that specifically interact with all aquaporins to identify agents that specifically interact with only one subfamily of water transporters i.e. either the aquaporins that transport water only or the aquaporins that are capable of transporting water and other molecules such as glycerol . The methods may also be used to identify agents that specifically interact with at least one but not all aquaporins.

In particular embodiments the methods described herein are useful for identifying agents that alter the transport of water by at least one of AQP0 AQP1 AQP2 AQP3 AQP4 AQP5 AQP6 AQP7 AQP8 AQP9 AQP10 AQP11 AQP12 including AQP12A and AQP12A . In other embodiments the methods described herein are useful for identifying agents that alter the transport of water by at least one of AQP1 AQP2 AQP3 and AQP4.

In a specific embodiment the methods described herein are useful for identifying inhibitors of aquaporin polypeptides that transport both a solute such as glycerol and water e.g. AQP3 AQP7 and AQP9 . Indicator cells that comprise an aquaporin that transports glycerol and water and an aquaporin that transports only water e.g. AQP0 AQP1 AQP2 AQP4 AQP5 AQP6 and AQP8 . The indicator cells may be placed in a solution that comprises a neutrally charged solute e.g. glycerol in an amount sufficient to provide a hyperosmolar solution. After contacting the indicators cells in the hyperosmolar solution with at least one candidate agent the hyperosmolar solution may be removed replaced or diluted such that the indicator cells are in a glycerol free or solute free medium that is substantially isosmolar. An increase in cell lysis compared to a similarly prepared sample in the absence of a candidate agent indicates that the compound is an inhibitor of the solute transporting aquaporin.

As described herein an indicator cell may endogenously express an aquaporin. Alternatively an indicator cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide i.e. a polynucleotide that is introduced into a cell for recombinant expression of the transporter polypeptide that encodes an aquaporin polypeptide and that directs expression of the aquaporin transporter polypeptide in the indicator cell. The indicator cell may be transfected transduced or transformed with a recombinant expression vector that comprises such a polynucleotide according to molecular biology methods practiced in the art and described above. Numerous and exemplary polynucleotide sequences that encode aquaporin polypeptides such as aquaporins in human cells and rodent cells are known in the art and are available in publicly available databases such as GenBank see Internet web site at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov . By way of example an SV40 immortalized rat submandibular acinar cell line has been transfected with a polynucleotide that encodes and directs expression of AQP5 Hansen et al. 5 Oct. 2006 Epub ahead of print .

Exemplary polynucleotide and the encoded polypeptide sequences may be found for example in GenBank Accession Nos. NM 198098.1 AQP1 BC22486.1 AQP1 AY953319.1 AQP1 NM 000486.3 AQP2 BC042496.1 AQP2 Z29491.1 AQP2 AF147092.1 AQP2 NM 004925.3 AQP3 NM 004028.3 AQP4 U63623.1 AQP4 U63622.1 AQP4 BC045780.1 AQP4 NM 001650.4 AQP4 BC030745.1 AQP4 NM 001651.1 AQP5 BC034356.1 AQP5 BC032946.1 AQP5 BC065275.1 AQP6 NM 001170.1 AQP7 BC062701.1 AQP7 NM 001169.2 AQP8 BC040630.1 AQP8 AF067797.1 AQP8 NM 020980.2 AQP9 AB008775.1 AQP9 BC026258.1 AQP9 BC069607.1 AQP10 NM 080429.2 AQP10 NM 173039.1 AQP11 BC040443.1 AQP11 NM 198998.1 AQP12A and BC041460.1 AQP12B .

In another embodiment methods described herein for identifying agents that alter the volume of a cell may be used for identifying agents that alter transport of a monosaccharide e.g. glucose fructose galactose ribose across a cell membrane. In a particular embodiment methods are provided for identifying agents that alter i.e. decrease or increase in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of a glucose transporter to transport glucose and or other monosaccharides across a cell membrane.

Thirteen glucose transporters have been described. In certain embodiments the methods described herein may identify agents that alter the capability of all members of the glucose transporter family to transport a monosaccharide e.g. glucose fructose galactose across a cell membrane. In more specific embodiments methods described herein may be used to identify agents that alter the capability of at least one but not all the glucose transporters to transport a monosaccharide such as glucose across a cell membrane. Exemplary glucose transporters include but are not limited to transporter polypeptides called GLUT1 GLUT2 GLUT3 and GLUT4.

By way of background GLUT 1 is expressed in many cell types. GLUT1 is one of the primary transporters across the blood brain barrier Guo et al. 43 175 87 2005 . GLUT1 also transports glucose into astrocytes Maurer et al. 580 4430 34 2006 Epub 2006 Jul. 14 . The function of GLUT1 has also been studied with respect to its role in hypertension in diabetic nephropathy see e.g. Gnudi et al. 8 79 83 2006 . Nephropathy is a major diabetic microvascular complication both metabolic and hemodynamic perturbations influence its occurrence and progression toward end stage renal disease.

The glucose transporter called GLUT3 transports glucose into neurons Maurer et al. 580 4430 34 2006 Epub 2006 Jul. 14 . GLUT2 is a facilitative glucose transporter located in a variety of cell types including the plasma membrane of the liver pancreatic intestinal kidney cells as well as in the portal and the hypothalamus areas. Due to its low affinity and high capacity GLUT2 transports dietary sugars glucose fructose and galactose in a large range of physiological concentrations and displays large bidirectional fluxes in and out the cells Leturque et al. 61 529 37 2005 . GLUT4 is the main glucose transporter activated by insulin in skeletal muscle cells and adipocytes see e.g. McGee et al. 33 395 99 2006 . GLUT 7 is another transporter that also transports fructose see e.g. Manolescu et al. 280 42978 83 2005 .

As described herein an indicator cell may endogenously express a glucose transporter. Alternatively an indicator cell may comprise an exogenous polynucleotide i.e. a polynucleotide that is introduced into a cell for recombinant expression of the transporter polypeptide that encodes a glucose transporter polypeptide and that directs expression of the glucose transporter polypeptide in the indicator cell. The indicator cell may be transfected transduced or transformed with a recombinant expression vector that comprises such a polynucleotide according to molecular biology methods practiced in the art and described above. Numerous and exemplary polynucleotide sequences that encode glucose transporter polypeptides such as glucose transporters in human cells and rodent cells are known in the art and are available in publicly available databases such as GenBank see Internet web site at ncbi.nlm.nih.gov . Exemplary polynucleotide and the encoded polypeptide sequences may be found for example in GenBank Accession Nos. NM 006516.1 GLUT1 NM 000340.1 GLUT2 BC060041.1 GLUT2 L09674.1 GLUT2 J03810.1 GLUT2 NM 006931.1 GLUT3 NM 001042.2 GLUT4 NM 207420.1 GLUT7 and NM 001001290.1 GLUT9 .

An indicator cell may be any cell typically a eukaryotic cell that comprises at least one aquaporin and or at least one transporter that transports a small neutrally charged solute e.g. a urea transporter or a glucose transporter . The indicator cells may be used in suspension or the indicator cells may be attached to a substrate such as a glass slide or a tissue culture dish including multi well plates e.g. 96 well culture dishes . The substrate may be a solid impermeable surface or the substrate may be a porous substrate that permits exposure of the apical and basolateral membranes of an indicator cell to a solution.

In certain embodiments methods for identifying an agent that alters the capability of a solute transporter to transport a solute across a cell membrane may use indicator cells that endogenously express the transporter polypeptide. In other embodiments the methods may use indicator cells that comprise an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes a solute transporter and directs the expression of the solute transporter. Similarly methods for identifying an agent that alters the capability of an aquaporin to transport water across a cell membrane may use indicator cells that endogenously express at least one aquaporin or may use indicator cells that comprise an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes an aquaporin and directs the expression of the aquaporin. A cell that endogenously expresses a transporter has within the cell genome a nucleotide sequence that encodes a transporter and which nucleotide sequence is translated into mRNA which is then transcribed.

In certain embodiments methods for identifying an agent that alters transport of urea across a cell membrane may employ indicator cells that endogenously express a urea transporter polypeptide. An exemplary indicator cell that may be used in the methods described herein and that expresses a urea transporter is a red blood cell i.e. erythrocyte which endogenously expresses the urea transporter UT B also referred to as the Kidd blood group antigen . Red blood cells also express an aquaporin AQP1.

Indicator cells may also include kidney cells i.e. renal cells that express at least one urea transporter and or express at least one aquaporin. The kidney cells may be isolated from kidney tissue established in cell culture by methods typically and routinely used in the art for establishing cell lines in culture including methods for immortalizing cells. Other indicator cells include a neuron brain cell or a testis cell.

In another embodiment indicator cells include cells that express and comprise in a cell membrane an aquaporin that transports glycerol as well as water e.g. AQP3 AQP7 and AQP9 and that express and comprise in a cell membrane at least one aquaporin that transports only water e.g. AQP0 AQP1 AQP2 AQP4 AQP5 AQP6 and AQP8 . Compounds that inhibit transport of glycerol may be identified according to the methods described herein by using such indicator cells and by using glycerol as the solute in the hyperosmolar solution. Each aquaporin may be endogenously or exogenously expressed by the cell.

Indicator cells may be obtained or derived from a biological sample from any one of a number of animals including mammals. Mammalian indicator cells may be obtained from humans non human primates rodents such as mice rats or rabbits cats feline dogs canine cattle bovine sheep ovine pigs porcine llamas and camels for example.

A biological sample as used herein refers in certain embodiments to a sample containing at least one indicator cell or a plurality of indicator cells. A biological sample may be a blood sample such as whole blood or a cellular fraction of whole blood biopsy specimen body fluids that contain cells that express at least one transporter e.g. lung lavage ascites mucosal washings synovial fluid bone marrow lymph nodes tissue explant organ culture or any other tissue or cell preparation from a subject or a biological source. A biological sample may further refer to a tissue or cell preparation in which the morphological integrity or physical state of the tissue has been disrupted for example by dissection dissociation solubilization fractionation homogenization biochemical or chemical extraction. The subject or biological source may be a human or non human animal a primary cell culture e.g. kidney cells or other cells that endogenously express a transporter or culture adapted cell line including but not limited to genetically engineered cell lines that may contain chromosomally integrated or episomal recombinant nucleic acid sequences immortalized or immortalizable cell lines somatic cell hybrid cell lines differentiated or differentiatable cell lines transformed cell lines and the like.

Indicator cells including kidney cells or cells derived from other tissues may comprise an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes a solute transporter polypeptide or an aquaporin. The indicator cell may be transfected transformed or transduced with a recombinant expression vector which comprises a polynucleotide that is capable of directing expression of at least one solute transporter or at least one aquaporin. To direct expression of at least one transporter the polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes a transporter such as an aquaporin a urea transporter a glucose transporter or a transporter that transports another small neutrally charged solute which nucleotide sequence is operatively linked to at least one expression control sequence e.g. a promoter enhancer transcriptional control element and the like . Recombinant expression vectors may be prepared according to methods and techniques with which a person skilled in the molecular biology art is familiar and which are described herein. An exemplary cell line that may be transfected with a recombinant expression vector comprising a polynucleotide that directs expression of a urea transporter or other transporter or aquaporin includes Madin Darby canine kidney cells MDCK .

Indicator cells containing the described recombinant expression constructs may be genetically engineered transduced transformed or transfected with vectors and or expression constructs for example a cloning vector a shuttle vector or an expression construct . The vector or construct may be in the form of a plasmid a viral particle a phage etc. The engineered indicator cells can be cultured in conventional nutrient media modified as appropriate for activating promoters selecting transformants or amplifying particular genes or encoding nucleotide sequences. Selection and maintenance of culture conditions for particular indicator cells such as temperature pH and the like will be readily apparent to the ordinarily skilled artisan. Preferably the indicator cell can be adapted to sustained propagation in culture to yield a cell line according to art established methodologies. In certain embodiments the cell line is an immortal cell line which refers to a cell line that can be repeatedly passaged in culture at least ten times while remaining viable following log phase growth. In other embodiments the indicator cell used to generate a cell line that is capable of unregulated growth such as a cancer cell or a transformed cell or a malignant cell.

Useful recombinant expression constructs are prepared by inserting into an expression vector a structural DNA sequence encoding the transporter polypeptide together with suitable translation initiation and termination signals in operable reading phase with a functional promoter. The construct may comprise one or more phenotypic selectable markers and an origin of replication to ensure maintenance of the vector construct and if desirable to provide amplification within the indicator cell. A particular plasmid or vector may be used as long as it is replicable and viable in the indicator cell. Thus for example the polynucleotides that encode a transporter polypeptide may be included in any one of a variety of expression vector constructs for expressing a polypeptide.

An appropriate DNA sequence s may be inserted into the vector by a variety of procedures. In general the DNA sequence is inserted into an appropriate restriction endonuclease site s by procedures known in the art. Standard techniques for cloning DNA isolation amplification and purification for enzymatic reactions involving DNA ligase DNA polymerase restriction endonucleases and the like and various separation techniques are those known and commonly employed by those skilled in the art. Numerous standard techniques are described for example in Ausubel et al. Greene Publ. Assoc. Inc. John Wiley Sons Inc. 1993 Sambrook et al. 3rd Ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 2001 Maniatis et al. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory 1982 and elsewhere.

The nucleotide sequence encoding a transporter polypeptide in the expression vector is operatively linked to at least one appropriate expression control sequence e.g. a promoter or a regulated promoter to direct mRNA synthesis. Representative examples of such expression control sequences include LTR or SV40 promoter the lac or trp the phage lambda Ppromoter and other promoters known to control expression of genes in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or their viruses. Promoter regions can be selected from any desired gene using CAT chloramphenicol transferase vectors or other vectors with selectable markers. Eukaryotic promoters include CMV immediate early HSV thymidine kinase early and late SV40 LTRs from retroviruses and mouse metallothionein I. Selection of the appropriate vector and promoter and preparation of certain recombinant expression constructs comprising at least one promoter or regulated promoter operatively linked to a polynucleotide described herein is well within the level of ordinary skill in the art.

The vector may be a viral vector such as a retroviral vector. For example retroviruses from which the retroviral plasmid vectors may be derived include but are not limited to Moloney Murine Leukemia Virus spleen necrosis virus Rous Sarcoma Virus Harvey Sarcoma virus avian leukosis virus gibbon ape leukemia virus human immunodeficiency virus adenovirus Myeloproliferative Sarcoma Virus and mammary tumor virus. A viral vector also includes one or more promoters. Suitable promoters that may be employed include but are not limited to the retroviral LTR the SV40 promoter and the human cytomegalovirus CMV promoter described in Miller et al. 7 980 990 1989 or any other promoter e.g. eukaryotic cellular promoters including for example the histone pol III and actin promoters . Other viral promoters that may be employed include but are not limited to adenovirus promoters thymidine kinase TK promoters and B19 parvovirus promoters.

The retroviral plasmid vector is employed to transduce packaging cell lines e.g. PE501 PA317 2 AM PA12 T19 14X VT 19 17 H2 CRE CRIP GP E 86 GP envAm12 DAN see also e.g. Miller 1 5 14 1990 to form producer cell lines. The vector may transduce the packaging cells through any means known in the art such as for example electroporation the use of liposomes and calcium phosphate precipitation. The producer cell line generates infectious retroviral vector particles that include the nucleic acid sequence s encoding the polypeptides or fusion proteins described herein. Such retroviral vector particles then may be employed to transduce eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotic cells that may be transduced include for example embryonic stem cells embryonic carcinoma cells hematopoietic stem cells hepatocytes fibroblasts myoblasts keratinocytes endothelial cells bronchial epithelial cells and other culture adapted cell lines.

Agents which may also be referred to as bioactive agents may be provided as libraries or collections of compounds compositions or molecules. For example agents include low molecular weight organic molecules which typically include compounds known in the art as small molecules. A small molecule may have a molecular weight less than 10daltons less than 10daltons or less than 10daltons. Other agents that may be useful for altering the volume of a cell e.g. an agent that alters the capability of a transporter to transport a solute across a cell membrane or an agent that alters the capability of an aquaporin to transport water across a cell membrane include peptides. Peptides and small molecules may be synthesized according to methods routinely practiced by person skilled in the synthesis of peptides or small molecules respectively.

The methods described herein are useful for screening large numbers of agents e.g. multiple hundreds of agents quickly. Candidate agents such as small molecules and peptides may be obtained from combinatorial libraries. Combinatorial libraries of agents can be purchased from a commercial vendor or can be prepared according to methods with which a skilled artisan is familiar. Examples of methods for the synthesis of molecular libraries can be found in the art for example in DeWitt et al. 90 6909 1993 Erb et al. 91 11422 1994 Zuckermann et al. 37 2678 1994 Cho et al. 261 1303 1993 Carrell et al. 33 2059 1994 Carell et al. 33 2061 1994 and in Gallop et al. 37 1233 1994 .

Candidate agents that are provided as members of a combinatorial library include synthetic agents prepared according to a plurality of predetermined chemical reactions performed in a plurality of reaction vessels. For example various starting compounds may be prepared according to one or more of solid phase synthesis recorded random mix methodologies and recorded reaction split techniques that permit a given constituent to traceably undergo a plurality of permutations and or combinations of reaction conditions. The resulting products comprise a library that can be screened followed by iterative selection and synthesis procedures. Such synthetic combinatorial libraries include a library of peptides see e.g. International Patent Application Nos. PCT US91 08694 and PCT US91 04666 or other compositions that may include small molecules as provided herein see e.g. International Patent Application No. PCT US94 08542 EP Patent No. 0774464 U.S. Pat. No. 5 798 035 U.S. Pat. No. 5 789 172 U.S. Pat. No. 5 751 629 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties .

Agents identified by the methods described herein include agents that are capable of inhibiting transport of urea across a cell membrane and inhibiting entry of urea into a cell and or inhibiting efflux of urea out of the cell. Provided herein are compounds that are potent urea transporter inhibitors which include inhibitors of UT B which were identified using the methods described herein. The exemplary compounds belong to four diverse chemical classes including but not limited to phenylsulfoxyoxazoles and phenylsulfoxyimidazoles benzenesulfonanilides phthalazinamines and aminobenzimidizoles which had submicromolar ECvalues in red blood cell lysis assays and in stopped flow light scattering assays.

Agents and compounds identified and characterized by the methods described herein may be used in pharmaceutical compositions for treating diseases disorders and conditions related to aberrant solute or water transport. For example an inhibitor of an aquaporin may be used to increase renal water clearance in hyponatremia associated with fluid overload or SIADH Goldsmith 95 14 B 23B 2005 Miller 54 345 53 2006 . An agent identified by the methods described herein which may be an inhibitor of a urea transporter may be used to treat or ameliorate conditions disorders and diseases related to aberrant urea transport such as conditions related to aberrant renal urea clearance. Such diseases disorders and conditions include cardiovascular disease e.g. hypertension and congestive heart failure syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention and abnormal uresis. An agent identified by the methods described herein which may be an inhibitor of a glucose transporter may be used to treat or ameliorate conditions disorders and diseases related in part to aberrant glucose transport such as diabetes.

The agents identified according to the methods described herein for example agents that are urea transporter inhibitors may be used for developing animal models that mimic a urea transporter knock out animal model. For example by administering a UT B inhibitor to an animal thus creating a UT B chemical knock out animal the mechanism and activities of other urea transporters may be studied and analyzed. Similarly chemical UT A knock out animals may be made by administering an inhibitor of a UT A transporter or by administering an inhibitor specific for one UT A isoform. Such models would also be useful for determining the specificity and selectivity of a urea transporter inhibitor see e.g. Klein et al. 15 1161 67 2004 .

A composition comprising an agent that inhibits transport of a neutrally charged solute transport e.g. urea by a solute transporter and or that inhibits transport of water by an aquaporin may be used for treating a disease disorder or condition in a subject. Diseases disorders and conditions that may be treated with compounds that inhibit solute transport or water transport including those compounds described herein include cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension or congestive heart failure syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention diabetes and abnormal uresis. In one embodiment compounds that inhibit urea transporters i.e. that inhibit transport of urea across a cell membrane including across the outer cell membrane into influx or out of the cell efflux may be used as a type of diuretic a urearetic that affects renal urea clearance mechanisms.

Methods are also provided for using the compounds identified by the methods described herein for treating a disease disorder or condition associated with or related to aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute e.g. urea a monosaccharide such as glucose in a subject by administering to the subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one compound that is a specific inhibitor of a transporter capable of transporting the solute across a cell membrane. In another embodiment methods are provided for treating a disease disorder or condition that is associated with or related to aberrant transport of water by an aquaporin.

A disease disorder or condition that is related to aberrant urea transporter activity includes a disease disorder or condition that is caused by in whole or in part by aberrant urea transport and also includes a disease disorder or condition for which aberrant urea transporter activity is a sequelae of the disease disorder or condition. The disease disorder or condition that may be treated using a compound that inhibits urea transporter activity may be associated with a fluid retention imbalance such as urea clearance insufficiency. Urea is a by product of protein metabolism that is formed in the liver. Because urea contains ammonia which is toxic to an animal body urea must be quickly filtered from the blood by the kidneys and excreted in the urine. Also as described herein conservation of water in mammals depends significantly on the transport of urea particularly in the kidney. Urea is generated as the major end product of hepatic nitrogen metabolism and is excreted primarily by the kidney. In a particular embodiment the disease disorder or condition associated with aberrant urea transport is renal urea clearance insufficiency.

In one embodiment treating any one of the aforementioned diseases disorders or conditions comprises inhibiting i.e. preventing decreasing reducing abrogating or inhibiting in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea by administering a composition comprising a compound that specifically interacts with a urea transporter resulting in inhibition loss or prevention of urea transport. The compound may inhibit a UT B transporter and or may inhibit at least one UT A transporter or isoform thereof e.g. UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 UT A5 .

To evaluate and to monitor the effectiveness of a compound to treat a disease disorder or condition one or more of several clinical assay methods may be performed that are familiar to a person skilled in the clinical art. For example a clinical method called a urea clearance test may be performed. A blood sample is obtained from a subject to whom the compound is being administered so that the amount of urea in the bloodstream can be determined. In addition a first urine sample is collected from the subject and at least one hour later a second urine sample is collected. The amount of urea quantified in the urine indicates the amount of urea that is filtered or cleared by the kidneys into the urine. Another clinical assay method measures urine osmolality i.e. the amount of dissolved solute particles in the urine . Inability of the kidneys to concentrate the urine in response to restricted fluid intake or to dilute the urine in response to increased fluid intake during osmolality testing may indicate decreased kidney function.

Urea is a by product of protein metabolism and is formed in the liver. Urea is then filtered from the blood and excreted in the urine by the kidneys. The BUN blood urea nitrogen test measures the amount of nitrogen contained in the urea. High BUN levels may indicate kidney dysfunction but because blood urea nitrogen is also affected by protein intake and liver function the test is usually performed in conjunction with determination of blood creatinine which is considered a more specific indicator of kidney function. Low clearance values for creatinine and urea indicate diminished ability of the kidneys to filter these waste products from the blood and excrete them in the urine. As clearance levels decrease blood levels of creatinine and urea nitrogen increase. An abnormally elevated blood creatinine a more specific and sensitive indicator of kidney disease than the BUN is diagnostic of impaired kidney function.

As used herein a subject may be any mammal including a human that may have or be afflicted with a disease condition or disorder described herein. A pharmaceutical composition may be a sterile aqueous or non aqueous solution suspension or emulsion which additionally comprises a physiologically acceptable excipient pharmaceutically acceptable or suitable excipient or carrier i.e. a non toxic material that does not interfere with the activity of the active ingredient . Such compositions may be in the form of a solid liquid or gas aerosol . Alternatively compositions described herein may be formulated as a lyophilizate or compounds may be encapsulated within liposomes using technology known in the art. Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other components which may be biologically active or inactive. Such components include but are not limited to buffers e.g. neutral buffered saline or phosphate buffered saline carbohydrates e.g. glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione stabilizers dyes flavoring agents and suspending agents and or preservatives.

Any suitable excipient or carrier known to those of ordinary skill in the art for use in pharmaceutical compositions may be employed in the compositions described herein. Excipients for therapeutic use are well known and are described for example in Gennaro 21Ed. Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. 2005 . In general the type of excipient is selected based on the mode of administration. Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated for any appropriate manner of administration including for example topical oral nasal intrathecal rectal vaginal intraocular subconjunctival sublingual or parenteral administration including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intrasternal intracavernous intrameatal or intraurethral injection or infusion. For parenteral administration the carrier preferably comprises water saline alcohol a fat a wax or a buffer. For oral administration any of the above excipients or a solid excipient or carrier such as mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine talcum cellulose kaolin glycerin starch dextrins sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose glucose sucrose and or magnesium carbonate may be employed.

A pharmaceutical composition e.g. for oral administration or delivery by injection may be in the form of a liquid. A liquid pharmaceutical composition may include for example one or more of the following a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils that may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents antioxidants chelating agents buffers and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. The use of physiological saline is preferred and an injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A composition comprising a compound that inhibits transport of a neutrally charged solute by a transporter may be formulated for sustained or slow release. Such compositions may generally be prepared using well known technology and administered by for example oral rectal or subcutaneous implantation or by implantation at the desired target site. Sustained release formulations may contain an agent dispersed in a carrier matrix and or contained within a reservoir surrounded by a rate controlling membrane. Excipients for use within such formulations are biocompatible and may also be biodegradable preferably the formulation provides a relatively constant level of active component release. The amount of active compound contained within a sustained release formulation depends upon the site of implantation the rate and expected duration of release and the nature of the condition to be treated or prevented.

The dose of the composition for treating a disease or disorder associated with a fluid retention imbalance such as urea clearance insufficiency or for treating cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension or congestive heart failure syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention diabetes and abnormal uresis may be determined according to parameters understood by a person skilled in the medical art. Accordingly the appropriate dose may depend upon the subject s condition that is stage of the disease general health status as well as age gender and weight and other factors considered by a person skilled in the medical art.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in a manner appropriate to the disease to be treated as determined by persons skilled in the medical arts. An appropriate dose and a suitable duration and frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the condition of the patient the type and severity of the patient s disease the particular form of the active ingredient and the method of administration. In general an appropriate dose and treatment regimen provides the composition s in an amount sufficient to provide therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit e.g. an improved clinical outcome such as more frequent complete or partial remissions or longer disease free and or overall survival or a lessening of symptom severity .

Optimal doses may generally be determined using experimental models and or clinical trials. The optimal dose may depend upon the body mass weight or blood volume of the subject. In general the amount of a small molecule compound as described herein that is present in a dose ranges from about 0.01 g to about 1000 g per kg weight of the host. The use of the minimum dose that is sufficient to provide effective therapy is usually preferred. Subjects may generally be monitored for therapeutic effectiveness using assays suitable for the condition being treated or prevented which assays will be familiar to those having ordinary skill in the art and are described herein.

The following Examples are offered for the purpose of illustrating the present invention and are not to be construed to limit the scope of this invention.

An RBC lysis assay was developed in an automated 96 well format high throughput format and optimized for identification and characterization of small molecule UT B inhibitors. Inhibition of UT B mediated transport of urea by compounds was indicated by increased RBC lysis when urea or acetamide loaded RBCs were rapidly diluted into PBS see . Conditions were optimized to give a robust assay for high throughput screening that exhibited high sensitivity and a low false positive rate. Absorbance at 710 nm was measured as a read out of RBC lysis to minimize interference by test compounds and hemoglobin.

Screening of compounds for UT B inhibitory activity in the RBC lysis assay was performed using a BECKMAN COULTER Fullerton Calif. integrated system that included a 3 meter robotic arm microplate carousel liquid handling work station with parallel 96 well solution mixing and transfer BIOMEK FX plate sealer and two fluorescence plate readers FLUOstar Optima BMG LABTECH Gmbh Durham N.C. each equipped with a 710 5 nm absorption filter CHROMA Rockingham Vt. . Chemicals were purchased from SIGMA ALDRICH St. Louis Mo. unless otherwise noted.

Human venous blood obtained from a single donor was collected into VACUTAINERS coated with sodium heparin BECTON DICKINSON Franklin Lakes N.J. stored at 4 C. and used within 48 hr of collection. All human procedures were approved by the University of California San Francisco Committee on Human Research. Whole mouse blood was collected from 8 12 week old 25 35 g wild type AQP1 null Ma et al. 273 4296 99 1998 or UT B null Yang et al. 277 10633 37 2002 mice in a CD1 genetic background by orbital puncture following subcutaneous injection with sodium heparin 150 USP units . All animal protocols were approved by the University of California San Francisco Committee on Animal Research.

Inhibition of UT B mediated transport of urea by compounds was indicated by increased RBC lysis when urea or acetamide loaded RBCs were rapidly diluted into PBS see . Conditions were optimized to give a robust assay for high throughput screening that exhibited high sensitivity and a low false positive rate. Absorbance at 710 nm was measured as a read out of RBC lysis to minimize interference by test compounds and hemoglobin. Urea and a panel of small urea like solutes e.g. formamide N methylurea acetamide propionamide butyramide and isobutyramide were evaluated as the loading solute based on their transport kinetics and passage through UT B. Acetamide was selected because its equilibration in RBCs was approximately 2 fold slower than water which is optimal in an osmotic lysis assay and because greater than 95 of its transport in RBCs is UT B dependent as determined by stopped flow light scattering.

The acetamide loading concentration that is optimal for identifying UT B inhibitors was determined. shows RBC lysis determined by absorbance at 710 nm O.D. as a function of the acetamide concentration used to load RBCs prior to mixing with acetamide free buffer. Greater lysis which is indicated by reduced O.D. was observed with increasing acetamide concentration. Fifty percent lysis was observed at approximately 1.6 M acetamide under control conditions open circles and at approximately 1.1 M when UT B facilitated acetamide transport was inhibited by phloretin filled circles . To distinguish between control vs. inhibited UT B a concentration of 1.25 M acetamide dashed vertical line was chosen for the assay. Other technical considerations that were addressed during assay optimization included maintenance of RBC viability and uniform suspension mixing conditions rates volumes and pipette tip locations in wells and incubation time temperature. The goodness of the optimized assay was evaluated by screening a series of plates containing positive and negative controls 100 and 0 lysis respectively which gave a very good statistical z factor of 0.57 for the screen see .

A primary screening for UT B inhibitors was performed using a collection of 50 000 diverse drug like compounds 90 with molecular size of 250 500 Da obtained from a commercial source CHEMDIV Inc. San Diego Calif. . 96 well plates containing four compounds per well each at 2.5 mM were prepared for screening and then stored frozen in DMSO until use. Plates containing one compound per well at 10 mM in DMSO were stored separately and used later to identify and characterize individual active compounds.

Whole human blood was collected see Example 1 and then prior to performance of the assay was diluted to a hematocrit of 1 in hyperosmolar PBS containing 1.25 M acetamide and 5 mM glucose 1550 mOsm measured using freezing point depression osmometry Precision Systems Natick Mass. . Identical assay results were obtained when washed centrifuged RBCs were used instead of whole blood. RBC suspensions were maintained at room temperature for up to 2 hr by periodic pipette mixing. Ninety nine L from a reservoir containing the RBC suspension was added to each well of a 96 well round bottom microplate FALCON BECTON DICKINSON to which test compounds were added 1 L 25 M final compound concentration 1 final DMSO concentration . After 6 min incubation 20 L of the RBC suspension was added rapidly to each well of a 96 well black walled plate COSTAR Corning N.Y. containing 180 L isosmolar buffer PBS containing 1 DMSO in each well. Vigorous mixing was achieved by repeated pipetting.

RBC lysis was quantified from a single time point measurement of absorbance at 710 nm wavelength Mazeron et al. 72 172 78 2000 Cohn et al. 132 27 34 2003 made within 5 min after hyposmolar shock. Absorbance values were stable for at least 1 hr. Each assay plate contained eight negative no lysis controls isotonic buffer PBS 1.25 M acetamide with 1 DMSO and eight positive full lysis controls distilled HO with 1 DMSO that were mixed with DMSO vehicle treated blood.

The statistical z factor indicating goodness of the assay Oldenburg et al. eds. New York N.Y. Marcel Dekkar Inc. 549 554 2001 was computed using data from test plates as defined by z 1 3 SD SD A A where SDand Aare the standard deviations and mean absorbance values for positive pos and negative neg controls. The percentage of RBC lysis in each test well of a given plate was calculated using control values from the same plate as follows lysis 100 A A A A where Ais the absorbance value from a test well. During assay optimization some test wells were incubated with the non specific UT B inhibitor phloretin 0.7 mM dissolved at 100 in DMSO stock solution as an additional positive control.

RBC urea and water permeabilities were assayed by stopped flow light scattering using a Hi Tech Sf 51 instrument Wiltshire UK . For measurement of urea permeability dilutions of whole blood human or mouse see Example 1 in PBS hematocrit approximately 0.5 were incubated with test compounds for 5 min and then subjected to a 250 mM inwardly directed gradient of urea. After an initial osmotic shrinking phase the kinetics of increasing cell volume caused by urea influx were measured as the time course of 90 scattered light intensity at 530 nm with increasing cell volume resulting in reduced scattered light intensity. As a positive control 0.7 mM phloretin was added to the RBC suspension prior to stopped flow experiments. Measurements of water permeability were carried out similarly with sucrose cell impermeant used instead of urea to establish a 250 mM osmotic gradient. As a positive control HgCl 0.3 mM was added to the RBC suspension prior to stopped flow measurements. Osmotic water permeability coefficients P were computed from light scattering data as described van Hoek et al. 267 18267 69 1992 .

After repeating the 96 well plate RBC lysis assay to confirm compound activity see Example 2 bona fide urea transport inhibition was determined by stopped flow light scattering from the kinetics of urea influx RBC swelling in response to an inwardly directed urea gradient. Rapid mixing of an RBC suspension with a hyperosmolar solution containing excess 250 mM urea produced rapid cell shrinking due to osmotic water efflux followed by cell swelling as urea and water influx occurred.

Thirty two compounds in four distinct chemical structural classes phenylsulfoxyoxazole benzenesulfonanilide phthalazinamine and aminobenzimidazole were identified that at 5 M produced substantial inhibition greater than 95 of UT B facilitated urea transport. Other compounds that exhibited either much lower or no activity in the stopped flow assay probably had apparent UT B inhibitory activity in the primary screen in part due to RBC toxicity and consequent increased lysis. Original stopped flow urea transport data for one representative compound at 5 M of each class is shown in . Tracings from control no inhibitors and phloretin treated RBCs are provided for comparison. The new compounds at 5 M inhibited UT B facilitated urea transport in human RBCs by greater than 95 which was as good as or better than that with 0.7 mM phloretin. shows that none of the UT B inhibitors when tested at an even higher concentration of 25 M inhibited RBC osmotic water permeability as measured by cell shrinking in response to a sucrose gradient. Curves from negative control no inhibitor and positive control HgClwater transport inhibitor are provided for comparison.

The activity of approximately 700 commercially available analogs CHEMDIV Inc. and Asinex Moscow Russia of active compounds from the four distinct chemical structural classes phenylsulfoxyoxazole also phenylsulfoxyimidazole phenylsulfoxythiazole benzenesulfonanilide phthalazinamine and aminobenzimidazole identified in the primary screen was determined to establish structure activity relationships SAR and potentially to identify compounds with improved UT B inhibitory potency. These compounds were tested against human and mouse UT B using the RBC lysis assay. For some of the more active compounds dose response experiments were performed using human and or mouse blood in the lysis assay. ECwas calculated by non linear regression to the equation lysis lysis lysis inh EC inh where inh is inhibitor concentration and H is the Hill coefficient.

The analogs were screened at 25 M. Concentration inhibition data were obtained for those compounds producing greater than 75 apparent UT B inhibition by the RBC lysis assay. shows the chemical structures of potent compounds from each of the phenylsulfoxyoxazole benzenesulfonanilide phthalazinamine and aminobenzimidazole classes. These structures are unrelated to either phloretin or urea analog inhibitors. shows concentration inhibition data with apparent ECvalues in nM for exemplary compounds urea 101 30 nM urea 201 300 nM urea 302 100 nM and urea 404 400 nM.

To determine ECvalues for urea transport inhibition directly RBC urea transport was measured by stopped flow light scattering using a non saturating concentration of extracellular urea to avoid possible competition effects . ECfor inhibition of RBC urea transport was determined independently by comparing stopped flow light scattering curves to a model of cell shrinking swelling.

For stopped flow experiments a 100 mM gradient of urea for human RBCs or N methylurea for mouse RBCs was used to minimize competition effects apparent urea and N methylurea affinities at 23 C. are approximately 200 and approximately 100 mM respectively Mayrand et al. 81 221 37 1983 . N methylurea with greater than 2 fold slower RBC permeability than urea was used in mouse studies to better resolve overlapping water and urea transport kinetics. Dose response data were also collected for human RBCs using a high concentration of 1 M urea to distinguish between competitive vs. non competitive inhibitor binding.

The two coupled differential equations describing water efflux and solute influx in response to externally added urea or methylurea were numerically integrated using the forward Euler method t 0.01 s to reproduce the biphasic changes in cell volume observed experimentally. Computations that were performed using the smaller time step t 0.001 s gave similar results confirming the adequacy of the 0.01 s time step. Water flux J in cm s across erythrocyte membranes is represented by the following equation J P S v I I i U U i solute flux J in mol s is represented by the following equation P S U U i . Permeability coefficients Pand P are expressed in units of cm s cell surface area S in cm extracellular e and cellular c concentrations of impermeant I and urea methylurea U solute in mol cm and vis 18 mol cm. Initial conditions were I I 0 2.9 10mol cm U 10mol cm and U 0 0. For each time step a new cell volume normalized to the initial size V i 1 V 0 and a new cell permeant concentration U i 1 were calculated from V i 1 V 0 V i V 0 t P S V 0 v I 1 V i V 0 U U i and U i 1 U i V 0 t U S V 0 v U U i . Normalized cell volume was assumed to be inversely proportional to scattered light intensity. The product of Pand the surface area to volume ratio S V 0 was determined to be 3.4 10sand 8.5 10sfor human and mouse erythrocytes respectively from water permeability measurements. Pwas varied to reproduce experimental data and ECwas computed using non linear regression see above of Pvs. inh data.

To determine the sidedness of inhibitor action compounds were added only to the urea containing solution at concentrations 2 times higher than their EC before mixing with RBCs in stopped flow measurements. To assay for reversibility compounds at concentrations 4 times higher than their EC were added to RBCs for 10 min and then washed by centrifugation prior to stopped flow measurements.

RBCs were exposed externally to urea 101 and urea 302 at final concentrations of 0.1 and 0.2 M respectively approximately 2 times their EC just at the time of stopped flow experiments inhibitor inclusion only in urea containing solution . Whereas urea 101 did not inhibit urea transport under these conditions suggesting an intracellular site of action urea 302 had a sizable effect see . The inhibition of urea permeability by externally added urea 302 was concentration dependent.

To test reversibility of inhibition RBCs were pre incubated with urea 101 or urea 302 for 10 min at 0.1 and 0.4 M respectively which resulted in greater than 95 transport inhibition. After the RBCs were washed urea transport was identical to transport in RBCs that were not exposed to an inhibitor indicating fully reversible inhibition see .

UT B inhibitory potencies for the most active compounds of each of the chemical classes are summarized in Tables 1 4.

Class 1 compounds included phenylsulfoxyoxazoles but also included several phenylsulfoxyimidazoles urea 130 132 see Table 1 . In highly active compounds unsubstituted thioglycoamide was present as R1 urea 101 119 . Compounds with reduced activity often had amino groups such as mono dialkylated amines urea 120 123 n morpholino urea 124 125 and hexahydro 1 H azepine 1 yl urea 126 128 as R1. Compounds were inactive that had R1 as a thioglycoamide or a mono or dialkylated amide e.g. SCH CO NHR or SCH CO NR when R was a phenyl group or bulky aliphatic group. The compounds with the lowest ECvalues EC

Most active benzenesulfonanilides of Class 2 see Table 3 contained either 2 5 dimethoxy groups urea 201 205 or a fused 1 4 dioxane ring at the 3 4 positions urea 207 216 of the aniline phenyl with the former producing greater UT B inhibition. Compounds with other mono or di substitutions at R1 R2 including 3 methoxy 4 amino and 3 4 dimethoxy were inactive. The benzenesulfonamide phenyl ring tolerated a range of mono substitutions as R3 including bromo fluoro thiomethyl methoxy OMe and acetyl urea 203 205 209 210 . However methoxy and methyl Me groups were tolerated as di substitutions as R3 R5 urea 201 208 and to a lesser extent as R3 R4 urea 212 214 .

SAR of Class 3 phthalazinamines see Table 5 indicated preferred mono substitution at the 4 position of the 4 phenyl ring especially with carboxamide or methoxy functions urea 301 308 312 313 . Other acceptable 4 phenyl mono substitutions included 4 methyl 4 hydroxy 4 diethylcarboxamide and 4 n hydroethylcarboxamide urea 309 311 314 317 . Active phthalazinamines that contained di substitutions on this phenyl ring combined methyl Me at the 3 position with a variety of unsubstituted and mono di alkylated sulfanoyls at the 4 position urea 321 331 . Alkylation of 1 amino resulted in complete loss of activity whereas replacement by oxygen reduced activity partially urea 332 333 . Inhibitory activity was also lost when the 1 amino group was substituted by phenylmethyl rather than phenyl. Analogs were active when the n phenyl 1 amino moiety was substituted at the 4 position particularly with methyl and methoxy groups and mono di alkylated carboxamides urea 301 304 also well tolerated as R3 were hydroxy sulfanoyl glycoamide and n methyl glycoamide substitutions urea 306 307 311 312 .

For the Class 4 aminobenzimidazoles see Table 7 no substitutions were allowed at R1 except for methyl which reduced activity urea 404 vs. 423 . The 2 hydroxyphenylmethyl group was present in active compounds inhibitory activity was eliminated by replacement of hydroxy with methoxy or substituted sulfonyl amino groups. Without wishing to be bound by theory the loss of activity upon hydroxy methylation could be due to disruption of hydrogen bond donor effects. Additional substitutions at the benzyl function such as 5 bromo 5 chloro and 5 methyl increased activity urea 401 406 414 417 though compounds without 5 position substitutions were also active urea 407 413 . By contrast compounds with substituents at the 3 4 or 6 positions were generally inactive. Alkylation of the imidazole nitrogen R3 was favorable especially with ethyl Et n propyl n Pr isopropyl i Pr and 2 propenyl groups urea 401 406 409 411 414 416 . Several bulky alkyl chains comprising substituted amino functions were also active urea 407 408 .

To identify UT B inhibitors that would be useful for studies in mouse models the inhibitors of human UT B were screened for activity against mouse UT B in the RBC lysis assay performed essentially as described in Example 1. Whereas many phenylsulfoxyoxazole compounds and phthalazinamine compounds were highly active against human UT B were active against mouse UT B in the RBC lysis assay none of the benzenesulfonanilide or aminobenzimidazole compounds were active against mouse UT B in the RBC lysis assay at concentrations as high as 25 M. The amino acid sequences of human UT B and murine UT B exhibit approximately 85 sequence identity Yang et al. supra . Similar UT B inhibitory potencies were measured in assays using mouse RBCs and in assays using rat RBCs which was not unexpected in view of the closely related amino acid sequences of murine and rat UT B.

ECvalues for the most potent compounds that exhibited activity in the mouse RBC lysis assay were determined by stopped flow light scattering see Example 3 . Representative curves for two UT B inhibitors urea 101 and urea 302 are shown in . For these studies using mouse RBCs methylurea was used as the transported solute instead of urea because its transport is slower allowing better estimation of ECvalues. Concentration inhibition data indicated that the most potent phenylsulfoxyoxazole compounds and phthalazinamine compounds had an ECof approximately 200 nM for mouse UT B. These compounds when tested at 25 M did not affect urea transport in RBCs from UT B null mice.

Concentration inhibition studies were performed to study the effect of the active mouse UT B inhibitors on urea transport by UT A. The amino acid sequences of UT B and UT A urea transporter isoforms share significant similarity. The cells used in these studies were MDCK cells that expressed rat UT A1. MDCK UT A1 expressing cells were grown on collagen coated porous filters until they were electrically tight at which point 15 mM urea was introduced into buffer bathing the basolateral cell surface.

MDCK cells stably transfected with rat UT A1 MDCK UT A1 Fr hlich et al. . in press Fr hlich et al. 286 C1264 70 2004 . Epub on Jan. 28 2004 were generously provided by Dr. Jeffrey Sands Emory University School of Medicine Atlanta Ga. . Cells were grown in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM with bicarbonate and supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS 25 mM HEPES buffer penicillin G 100 U mL streptomycin 100 g mL and hygromycin 500 g mL . For determining urea flux cells were grown on 12 mm collagen coated TRANSWELL inserts 0.4 m pore size Costar as described Fr hlich et al. . in press Fr hlich et al. 2004 supra . The TRANSWELL inserts were incubated in hygromycin free medium for 1 hr in a 5 COtissue culture incubator 37 C. and then 2 10cells cmwere loaded onto each insert. Cells were used after culturing the cells for 4 days in hygromycin free medium at which time they formed tight monolayers transepithelial resistance 500 600 cm .

UT A1 facilitated urea flux in the basolateral to apical direction across unstimulated and forskolin stimulated MDCK UT A1 cell layers was measured in response to a 15 mM urea gradient. Experiments were carried out in 12 well plates in which PBS containing either DMSO vehicle or forskolin with or without UT B inhibitor added to both the apical facing 0.2 mL and basal facing 1 mL surfaces of cells on the porous filters. Cultures were incubated in the absence of urea for 30 min at 37 C. Then the basal facing solution was replaced with PBS containing same components with 15 mM urea. Five L samples of apical fluid were collected at specified times during incubation at 37 C. and urea concentration was determined using a commercial kit based on chromogenic urea complexation at 520 nm wavelength Quantichrom Urea Assay Kit BioAssay Systems Hayward Calif. . Forskolin 10 M with or without UT B transport inhibitors was added from 1000 DMSO stock solutions 0.2 final DMSO content . Inhibition of UT A1 mediated transport was defined as inhibition 100 A A A A . A and Awere averaged absorbance values at 520 nm for cultures treated with forskolin and forskolin phloretin respectively and Awere values from cultures treated with forskolin test compound.

This example describes chemical knock out of UT B by UT B inhibitors in RBCs and the effect on UT B facilitated water transport. Compounds urea 101 and urea 302 which have good inhibitory potencies against mouse UT B were used to test the hypothesis that UT B contains a pore that conducts water in response to an osmotic gradient. Osmotic water permeability was measured by stopped flow light scattering in RBCs from wild type and AQP1 null mice as shown in . Water permeability coefficients are summarized in . The UT B inhibitors phloretin urea 101 and urea 302 had little effect on water transport in RBCs from wild type mice as expected because AQP1 provides the principal route for water transport. Phloretin at 0.7 mM produced a small but significant reduction in Pthat was likely due to its non specific effects on membrane fluidity. AQP1 null RBCs had greater than 5 fold reduced Pcompared to wild type RBCs. As illustrated in urea 101 and urea 302 further inhibited water permeability in AQP1 null RBCs indicating that UT B facilitated water transport occurs in the cells.

All the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

From the foregoing although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

