---

title: Determining intent of text entry
abstract: Methods and systems for identifying information based on matching information to a query based on an index value are disclosed. In one aspect, a method for identifying information entered by a user includes computing an numeric index value, receiving input, calculating a query value, comparing the query value to the index value, and displaying items from the dataset.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775407&OS=08775407&RS=08775407
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08775407
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071112
---
This document relates to assisting users of computing or communication devices in entering and obtaining information and more particularly to systems and techniques for assisting a user in obtaining information.

As the speed and prevalence of computing devices including hand held electronic devices has increased the demands of users placed on those devices have also increased. The use of hand held devices for multiple uses that includes both numerical and alphabetic entry continues to increase. Computing devices particularly portable devices may combine numeric and alphabetic data entry using the same input devices such as the numeric and alphabetic keypad of a telephone.

Increased functionality and number of applications allow a user to use a more complex electronic device such as a hand held device or advanced cell phone for a number of purposes. The more complex electronic devices may be used as a camera to access weather or traffic reports phone calls to access the internet to send and receive text messages to check email gaming and a variety of other possible uses.

A computer implemented method and system are disclosed that provide methods of obtaining information for a user. Information that may be accessed using a hand held device is indexed with an index value. As an information or search request is made by a user the index value is used during the search to identify data entries or results matching or near the requested value. Using an index for searching may make the search faster may require less battery power and may be used to display a mixture of types of results in response to the same query information entered.

In one approach information stored in a contact database that is part of a personal information manager PIM may be stored and accessed based on a numerical index or a mapping of numbers on a keypad to one or more alphabetic characters such as those on a typical keypad.

In one example an index value is created for all entries in a contact list stored on a hand held device. When a search is conducted by a user typing in a sequence of digits the device compares the entered query to the index values and displays the names of all entries for which the index value matches the sequence number entered. Variously the matching may be based on a sequence match to the start of a name to a match anywhere in a name to a match of names and numbers to a match of names and email addresses or other data fields or combinations of fields. In other examples remote datasets may also be accessed and results displayed based on matching the entered query to a index value.

In one implementation a computer implemented method for identifying information entered by a user of an electronic device is described that includes computing an numeric index value for alphanumeric entries in a dataset receiving input from a keypad on the device calculating a query value of the entered input comparing the query value to the index value of entries in the dataset and displaying items comprising information from entries in the dataset having an index value matching the query value of the received input. The method may further include performing an action using a dataset entry when an item is selected.

The dataset may be part of a disambiguation dictionary for determining alphanumeric entries associated with a numeric input. Variously the dataset may include information that is stored locally in a hand held device or the dataset may include information that is stored remotely that is accessible by the hand held device or the dataset may include information that is stored locally in a hand held device and information that is stored remotely that is accessible by the hand held device. Variously the query value may be compared against an index value based on names in the dataset or the query value may be compared against index values based on names and index values based on numbers in the dataset. Variously computing an index value for entries in a dataset may include creating different index values based on different fields in an entry in a dataset such that a single entry has more than one index value or computing an index value for entries in a dataset may include computing index values for data entries from more than one dataset.

In another implementation a computer implemented system is described that includes a data input interface memory to store index values created for entries in a dataset a processor to receive input data and compute a query value based on the input data a request module to identify dataset entries having an index value matching the query value a response generator to obtain information from identified dataset entries and a display interface to display the obtained information from the identified dataset entries.

The data input interface may receive input from a keypad. Variously the dataset may include a single source or database or may include multiple sources or databases. The multiple databases may include a local source and a remotely accessed source. The dataset may include a remotely accessed source.

In another implementation a computer implemented system is described that includes means for receiving input a processor for calculating a query value of the entered input and comparing the query value to an index value of entries in a dataset and means for displaying information from dataset entries having an index value matching or closest to the query value of the received input.

The means for receiving input may include a keypad button touchscreen microphone scanner or mouse or other pointing device. The dataset may include entries from multiple sources or databases. The dataset may include entries from local and remotely accessed sources or databases.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Mobile devices including those with smaller form factors may require varying and often limited types of keyboards keypads or input devices for entering information. However the data entered into a device may be alphanumeric and not simply numeric in nature. Some data entry systems may use the same keys to represent both letters and numbers and hence data entry may be initially ambiguous in nature often requiring multiple taps of a key to determine a user s intent. In addition information managed by a device may be stored in an alphanumeric format.

In one implementation the alphanumeric information presented in a display area may be stored in an indexed or key mapped format with alphabetic characters having corresponding numeric values. In some implementations storing an index can optimize the speed and performance of finding relevant information for a search query. For example using an index to represent an alphanumeric set of characters can provide a mechanism for a system to avoid searching for or analyzing each possible alphanumeric character which can take an increased amount of computer processing time and computing power.

This may enable information entered using an alphanumeric keypad to be converted to a numeric information index value for efficient storage and retrieval. For example a contact name entered using the numeric keypad as john doe can be stored in an indexed format with a corresponding numeric index value of 5646 363 . The numeric values associated with the characters john doe are those depicted on a typical keypad association such as illustrated in . The conversion of information to indexed values can occur while entering information as a function or process within a software application such as an email or online chat application or when performing other various processes or tasks.

As shown in display area the displayed results change as the data entered in the data entry area changes or is added upon. includes the menu area data entry area and display area as shown in and and shows another example display screen for determining the intent of text entry. The example display may include a selection indicator . The selection indicator may provide a visual indication for which item in the display area has focus. As demonstrated in the progression from to initially the selection indicator is emphasizing the data entry area . As data is entered in the data entry area possible matches to the entered data may be presented in the display area . Matches may include complete matches to indexed or mapped data or matches to subsets of indexed or mapped data. In this example the information entered in the data entry area corresponds to one or more pieces of stored information and is presented in the display area with visual markings . As shown in display area the displayed results may be identified by matching at the start of an entry such as the start of a word or by matching an index sequence that appears anywhere in the entry such as the middle of a word . The displayed results shown in are matched by matching the sequence anywhere in the entry as shown by visual markings .

In addition and as indicated by this example when a displayed result is selected as shown by the selection indicator the displayed entry may be expanded to include and display additional information such as telephone number s address other contact information or combinations and or subsets thereof. This may be accomplished by changing the focus of the selection indicator which may shift from the data entry area to one or more items presented in the display area as demonstrated by the placement of the selection indicator in .

The focus of the selection indicator may shift from the data entry area to one or more items presented in the display area as demonstrated by the placement of the selection indicator in . In this example the displayed results are displayed by matching the entered information sequence at the start of an entry as shown by visual marking . Thus based on the data entered as 766 the first three characters of the contact record for Roman Holiday are found to match based on the use of a numeric index matching 7 to R 6 to O and 6 to M . The placement of the selection indicator as shown in expands the information displayed to include the telephone number of the displayed matching entry.

In this example the displayed results are selected for display by matching the values of the entered information sequence to the index values at the start of either a name or number entry. The possible matches are shown in the display area with visual markings which may be used to help identify possible matches shown in the display area . In this example the indexed values of 724 match Pag in the contact name Page Turner and Page Keeper as well as matching the digits 724 in the displayed phone numbers. The indexed values for these entries start with a sequence that corresponds to the data entered as 724. 

The process of indexing creates a representation such as an index value that corresponds to identified information in the specified sources. As depicted and described for indexing may be used to map one or more alphabetical characters to a single numeric value. In one implementation an index may be created by creating a representation for names stored in a local contact list by mapping letters present in the contact name field to the corresponding number present on a telephone keypad for each letter. For example the name Roman Holiday might be assigned the number 76626 4654329. In this example the symbol might stand for a space or any other entry. Alternatively the space in the name might be ignored in preparing the index. Storing a list of contact names by indexing them to their corresponding numeric values as depicted and described for and shown on the keypad may provide more efficient searching and retrieval of information and may consume less power than running repeated searches based on text entry. For example rather than requiring an updated search as each entry occurs in the text field pre indexing the information allows a device to merely display information matching the text entry.

Indexing may be performed and managed by a software application as part of another application as part of a data entry process or otherwise. In one implementation indexes can be created when data is entered via keyboard input or downloading from other networked systems e.g. information synching by physical BLUETOOTH or WIFI connection to another device to a computer or network . Indexes may be stored in a software database flash memory file storage or combinations thereof. Indexes may be based on one or more datasets databases or sources of information.

In step input information is received by the device. The input information may be received from a text entry by a query or lookup request or from another source. For example the input may be received from numeric alphabetic or ambiguous text entry from a keypad. As another example the input may be received as a query based on information contained in a received text message or email message. Other input sources are also possible. The input information is converted to an input or query index value representation by the same procedure that is used to create the index value. Thus for example an entry of A2D and an entry of 223 will both be converted to an input index value representation of 223 which will be used for comparison and matching against the index values of entries in the source or sources of data. This type of entry may be received when using a device such as that shown in that includes a data entry pad that include separate number and alphabetic keys. Devices using a typical keypad such as shown in generally will have a direct conversion of the digits entered to the index value representation of the entry.

In step input received may be compared to index values stored in an index described earlier in this document. As an example a numeric value entered into the data entry area may be compared to stored information such as a list of phone numbers or compared to alphabetic representations of the numeric values on a keypad depicted and described for .

The matching results from the comparison of input information to the Index in step are then displayed in step . As depicted and described in the display area of the example device can be used to display items in step . In step information can be presented for example with additional visual markings component with a selection indicator and combinations thereof. In the example shown in the list of possible matching information can be presented with one or more contact names and optionally show additional information such as a phone number. These results may be displayed following entry of a single digit and the results may be updated following entry of additional data.

In step the process checks whether a selection has been made from the displayed items. In one implementation additional displayed information can be obtained about a displayed record by highlighting a possible selection using the selection indicator shown in example . If no selection is made the process returns to receive input step for entry of additional or different information. In one implementation the display list is updated following entry of each additional digit in the entry until a selection is made.

Optionally if an item is selected in step the process can launch an application in step based on the displayed entry selected at step . For example selecting information in step may result in the change from a contact searching function to the launch of a phone application at step based on the selection of a name or phone number in step . In some implementations an expanded display application can launch when an item is selected. For example a complete contact record including name phone number mailing address email address business information or combinations thereof may be displayed when a name or number is selected. Other examples of displaying information in step may include launching an email application screen to compose a message to a selected contact launching a text messaging screen to compose a text message to a selected contact or launching an internet connection screen showing a website associated with a contact selected in step .

Referring now to the exterior appearance of an exemplary device that implements determining the intent of text entry is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to determine the intent of text entry upon request of a user of the mobile device.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a camera a microphone and a speaker . Although the device includes an external antenna it is anticipated that the device can include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display can display video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for determining the intent of text entry. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the alphanumeric characters Q and W when selected alone or are associated with the characters and 1 when pressed in combination with key . A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a numeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a 1 to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call a drop down menu key that causes a menu to appear within the display a backwards navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a favorites key that causes an active web page to be placed in a bookmarks folder of favorite sites or causes a bookmarks folder to appear a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies such as Wireless Broadband WiBro Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave ACCess WiMAX 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB High Performance Radio Metropolitan Network HIPERMAN iBurst or High Capacity Spatial Division Multiple Access HC SDMA High Speed OFDM Packet Access HSOPA High Speed Packet Access HSPA HSPA Evolution HSPA High Speed Upload Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Generic Access Network GAN Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data Only EVDO Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA Freedom Of Mobile Multimedia Access FOMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Code Division Multiple Access 2000 CDMA2000 Wideband Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network WiDEN High Speed Circuit Switched Data HSCSD General Packet Radio Service GPRS Personal Handy Phone System PHS Circuit Switched Data CSD Personal Digital Cellular PDC CDMAone Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS Integrated Digital Enhanced Network IDEN Global System for Mobile communications GSM DataTAC Mobitex Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD Hicap Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS Nordic Mobile Phone NMP Autoradiopuhelin ARP Autotel or Public Automated Land Mobile PALM Mobiltelefonisystem D MTD Offentlig Landmobil Telefoni OLT Advanced Mobile Telephone System AMTS Improved Mobile Telephone Service IMTS Mobile Telephone System MTS Push To Talk PTT or other technologies. Communication via W CDMA HSUPA GSM GPRS and EDGE networks may occur for example using a QUALCOMM MSM7200A chipset with an QUALCOMM RTR6285 transceiver and PM7540 power management circuit.

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a modem connection a local area network LAN connection including the Ethernet or a broadband wide area network WAN connection such as a digital subscriber line DSL cable high speed internet connection dial up connection T 1 line T 3 line fiber optic connection or satellite connection. The network connection may connect to a LAN network a corporate or government WAN network the Internet a telephone network or other network. The network connection uses a wired or wireless connector. Example wireless connectors include for example an INFRARED DATA ASSOCIATION IrDA wireless connector a Wi Fi wireless connector an optical wireless connector an INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE Standard 802.11 wireless connector a BLUETOOTH wireless connector such as a BLUETOOTH version 1.2 or 3.0 connector a near field communications NFC connector an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM ultra wide band UWB wireless connector a time modulated ultra wide band TM UWB wireless connector or other wireless connector. Example wired connectors include for example a IEEE 1394 FIREWIRE connector a Universal Serial Bus USB connector including a mini B USB interface connector a serial port connector a parallel port connector or other wired connector. In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The camera allows the device to capture digital images and may be a scanner a digital still camera a digital video camera other digital input device. In one example implementation the camera is a 3 mega pixel MP camera that utilizes a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS .

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

Referring now to the exterior appearance of another exemplary device that implements determining the intent of text entry is illustrated. Briefly and among other things the device includes a processor configured to determine the intent of text entry upon request of a user of the mobile device.

In more detail the hardware environment of the device includes a display for displaying text images and video to a user a keyboard for entering text or numeric data and user commands into the device a pointing device for pointing selecting and adjusting objects displayed on the display an antenna a network connection a power switch a volume control switch a microphone and a speaker . Although not shown in a camera as depicted in component may be included in the hardware environment. Moreover although the device shows an external antenna it is anticipated that the device may instead include an internal antenna which is not visible to the user.

The display displays video graphics images and text that make up the user interface for the software applications used by the device and the operating system programs used to operate the device . Among the possible elements that may be displayed on the display are a new mail indicator that alerts a user to the presence of a new message an active call indicator that indicates that a telephone call is being received placed or is occurring a data standard indicator that indicates the data standard currently being used by the device to transmit and receive data a signal strength indicator that indicates a measurement of the strength of a signal received by via the antenna such as by using signal strength bars a battery life indicator that indicates a measurement of the remaining battery life or a clock that outputs the current time.

The display may also show application icons representing various applications available to the user such as a web browser application icon a phone application icon a search application icon a contacts application icon a mapping application icon an email application icon as depicted in application icon or other application icons. In one example implementation the display is a quarter video graphics array QVGA thin film transistor TFT liquid crystal display LCD capable of 16 bit or better color.

A user uses the keyboard or keypad to enter commands and data to operate and control the operating system and applications that provide for automatic cropping of an image. The keyboard includes standard keyboard buttons or keys associated with alphanumeric characters such as keys and that are associated with the numeric characters 4 and 7 when selected alone or are associated with the characters g h or i and p q r or s when pressed in succession. A single key may also be associated with special characters or functions including unlabeled functions based upon the state of the operating system or applications invoked by the operating system. For example when an application calls for the input of a alphanumeric character a selection of the key alone may cause a g h or i to be input.

In addition to keys traditionally associated with an alphanumeric keypad the keyboard also includes other special function keys such as an establish call key that causes a received call to be answered or a new call to be originated a terminate call key that causes the termination of an active call keys which may be programmable for launching applications or performing other functions a backwards navigation key that causes a previously accessed network address to be accessed again a home page key that causes an application invoked on the device to navigate to a predetermined network address one or more keys for media control a key to launch an internet browser application or other keys that provide for multiple way navigation application selection and power and volume control.

The user uses the pointing device to select and adjust graphics and text objects displayed on the display as part of the interaction with and control of the device and the applications invoked on the device . The pointing device is any appropriate type of pointing device and may be a joystick a trackball a touch pad a camera a voice input device a touch screen device implemented in combination with the display or any other input device.

The antenna which can be an external antenna or an internal antenna is a directional or omni directional antenna used for the transmission and reception of radiofrequency RF signals that implement point to point radio communication wireless local area network LAN communication or location determination. The antenna may facilitate point to point radio communication using the Specialized Mobile Radio SMR cellular or Personal Communication Service PCS frequency bands and may implement the transmission of data using any number or data standards. For example the antenna may allow data to be transmitted between the device and a base station using technologies including those described previously for .

The wireless or wired computer network connection may be a connection including the those described previously for . In another implementation the functions of the network connection and the antenna are integrated into a single component.

The microphone allows the device to capture sound and may be an omni directional microphone a unidirectional microphone a bi directional microphone a shotgun microphone or other type apparatus that converts sound to an electrical signal. The microphone may be used to capture sound generated by a user for example when the user is speaking to another user during a telephone call via the device . Conversely the speaker allows the device to convert an electrical signal into sound such a voice from another user generated by a telephone application program or a ring tone generated from a ring tone application program. Furthermore although the device is illustrated in as a handheld device in further implementations the device may be a laptop a workstation a midrange computer a mainframe an embedded system telephone desktop PC a tablet computer a PDA or other type of computing device.

The CPU is one of a number of computer processors including. In one arrangement the computer CPU is more than one processing unit. The RAM interfaces with the computer bus so as to provide quick RAM storage to the CPU during the execution of software programs such as the operating system application programs and device drivers. More specifically the CPU loads computer executable process steps from the storage medium or other media into a field of the RAM in order to execute software programs. Data is stored in the RAM where the data is accessed by the computer CPU during execution. In one example configuration the device includes at least 128 MB of RAM and 256 MB of flash memory.

The storage medium itself may include a number of physical drive units such as a redundant array of independent disks RAID a floppy disk drive a flash memory a USB flash drive an external hard disk drive thumb drive pen drive key drive a High Density Digital Versatile Disc HD DVD optical disc drive a Blu Ray optical disc drive or a Holographic Digital Data Storage HDDS optical disc drive an external mini dual in line memory module DIMM synchronous dynamic random access memory SDRAM or an external micro DIMM SDRAM. Such computer readable storage media allow the device to access computer executable process steps application programs and the like stored on removable and non removable memory media to off load data from the device or to upload data onto the device .

A computer program product is tangibly embodied in storage medium a machine readable storage medium. The computer program product includes instructions that when read by a machine operate to cause a data processing apparatus to store image data in the mobile device. In some embodiments the computer program product includes instructions that determine the intent of text entry upon request of a user of the mobile device.

The operating system may be a LINUX based operating system such as the GOOGLE mobile device platform APPLE MAC OS X MICROSOFT WINDOWS NT WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS XP WINDOWS MOBILE a variety of UNIX flavored operating systems or a proprietary operating system for computers or embedded systems. The application development platform or framework for the operating system may be BINARY RUNTIME ENVIRONMENT FOR WIRELESS BREW JAVA Platform Micro Edition JAVA ME or JAVA 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME using the SUN MICROSYSTEMS JAVASCRIPT programming language PYTHON FLASH LITE or MICROSOFT .NET Compact or another appropriate environment.

The device stores computer executable code for the operating system and the application programs such as an email instant messaging a video service application a mapping application word processing spreadsheet presentation gaming mapping web browsing JAVASCRIPT engine or other applications. For example one implementation may allow a user to access the GOOGLE GMAIL email application the GOOGLE TALK instant messaging application a YOUTUBE video service application a GOOGLE MAPS or GOOGLE EARTH mapping application or a GOOGLE PICASA imaging editing and presentation application. The application programs may also include a widget or gadget engine such as a TAFRI widget engine a MICROSOFT gadget engine such as the WINDOWS SIDEBAR gadget engine or the KAPSULES gadget engine a YAHOO widget engine such as the KONFABULTOR widget engine the APPLE DASHBOARD widget engine the GOOGLE gadget engine the KLIPFOLIO widget engine an OPERA widget engine the WIDSETS widget engine a proprietary widget or gadget engine or other widget or gadget engine the provides host system software for a physically inspired applet on a desktop.

Although it is possible to provide for determining the intent of text entry using the above described implementation it is also possible to implement the functions according to the present disclosure as a dynamic link library DLL or as a plug in to other application programs such as an Internet web browser such as the FOXFIRE web browser the APPLE SAFARI web browser or the MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER web browser.

The navigation module may determine an absolute or relative position of the device such as by using the Global Positioning System GPS signals the GLObal NAvigation Satellite System GLONASS the Galileo positioning system the Beidou Satellite Navigation and Positioning System an inertial navigation system a dead reckoning system or by accessing address internet protocol IP address or location information in a database. The navigation module may also be used to measure angular displacement orientation or velocity of the device such as by using one or more accelerometers.

The operating system can generally be organized into six components a kernel libraries an operating system runtime application libraries system services and applications . The kernel includes a display driver that allows software such as the operating system and the application programs to interact with the display via the display interface a camera driver that allows the software to interact with the camera a BLUETOOTH driver a M Systems driver a binder IPC driver a USB driver a keypad driver that allows the software to interact with the keyboard via the keyboard interface a WiFi driver audio drivers that allow the software to interact with the microphone and the speaker via the sound interface and a power management component that allows the software to interact with and manage the power source .

The BLUETOOTH driver which in one implementation is based on the BlueZ BLUETOOTH stack for LINUX based operating systems provides profile support for headsets and hands free devices dial up networking personal area networking PAN or audio streaming such as by Advance Audio Distribution Profile A2DP or Audio Video Remote Control Profile AVRCP . The BLUETOOTH driver provides JAVA bindings for scanning pairing and unpairing and service queries.

The libraries include a media framework that supports standard video audio and still frame formats such as Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 4 H.264 MPEG 1 Audio Layer 5 MP3 Advanced Audio Coding AAC Adaptive Multi Rate AMR Joing Photographic Experts Group JPEG and others using an efficient JAVA Application Programming Interface API layer a surface manager a simple graphics library SGL for two dimensional application drawing an Open Graphics Library for Embedded Systems OpenGL ES for gaming and three dimensional rendering a C standard library LIBC a LIBWEBCORE library a FreeType library an SSL and an SQLite library .

The operating system runtime includes core JAVA libraries and a Dalvik virtual machine . The Dalvik virtual machine is a custom virtual machine that runs a customized file format .DEX .

The operating system can also include Mobile Information Device Profile MIDP components such as the MIDP JAVA Specification Requests JSRs components MIDP runtime and MIDP applications as shown in . The MIDP components can support MIDP applications running on the device or .

With regard to graphics rendering a system wide composer manages surfaces and a frame buffer and handles window transitions using the OpenGL ES and two dimensional hardware accelerators for its compositions.

The Dalvik virtual machine may be used with an embedded environment since it uses runtime memory very efficiently implements a CPU optimized bytecode interpreter and supports multiple virtual machine processes per device. The custom file format .DEX is designed for runtime efficiency using a shared constant pool to reduce memory read only structures to improve cross process sharing concise and fixed width instructions to reduce parse time thereby allowing installed applications to be translated into the custom file formal at build time. The associated bytecodes are designed for quick interpretation since register based instead of stack based instructions reduce memory and dispatch overhead since using fixed width instructions simplifies parsing and since the 16 bit code units minimize reads.

The application libraries include a view system a resource manager and content providers . The system services includes a status bar an application launcher a package manager that maintains information for all installed applications a telephony manager that provides an application level JAVA interface to the telephony subsystem a notification manager that allows all applications access to the status bar and on screen notifications a window manager that allows multiple applications with multiple windows to share the display and an activity manager that runs each application in a separate process manages an application life cycle and maintains a cross application history.

The applications include a home application a dialer application a contacts application a browser application and an text entry intent application .

The telephony manager provides event notifications such as phone state network state Subscriber Identity Module SIM status or voicemail status allows access to state information such as network information SIM information or voicemail presence initiates calls and queries and controls the call state. The browser application renders web pages in a full desktop like manager including navigation functions. Furthermore the browser application allows single column small screen rendering and provides for the embedding of HTML views into other applications.

Some processes can be persistent. For example processes associated with core system components such as the surface manager the window manager or the activity manager can be continuously executed while the device is powered. Additionally some application specific process can also be persistent. For example processes associated with the dialer application may also be persistent.

The processes implemented by the operating system kernel may generally be categorized as system services processes dialer processes browser processes and maps processes . The system services processes include status bar processes associated with the status bar application launcher processes associated with the application launcher package manager processes associated with the package manager activity manager processes associated with the activity manager resource manager processes associated with a resource manager that provides access to graphics localized strings and XML layout descriptions notification manger processes associated with the notification manager window manager processes associated with the window manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries surface manager processes associated with the surface manager Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library and text entry intent processes associated with the text entry intent application .

The dialer processes include dialer application processes associated with the dialer application telephony manager processes associated with the telephony manager core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik Virtual machine and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library . The browser processes include browser application processes associated with the browser application core JAVA libraries processes associated with the core JAVA libraries Dalvik virtual machine processes associated with the Dalvik virtual machine LIBWEBCORE processes associated with the LIBWEBCORE library and LIBC processes associated with the LIBC library .

The maps processes include maps application processes core JAVA libraries processes Dalvik virtual machine processes and LIBC processes . Notably some processes such as the Dalvik virtual machine processes may exist within one or more of the systems services processes the dialer processes the browser processes and the maps processes . shows an example of a generic computer device and a generic mobile computer device which may be used with the techniques described here. Computing device is intended to represent various forms of digital computers such as laptops desktops workstations personal digital assistants servers blade servers mainframes and other appropriate computers. Computing device is intended to represent various forms of mobile devices such as personal digital assistants cellular telephones smartphones and other similar computing devices. The components shown here their connections and relationships and their functions are meant to be exemplary only and are not meant to limit implementations of the inventions described and or claimed in this document.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT LCD Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

