---

title: Fast microscale actuators for probe microscopy
abstract: A system for measuring a property of a sample includes an actuation device disposed on a substrate and includes a flexible surface spaced apart from the substrate and configured so as to allow placement of the sample thereupon. The actuation device also includes a vertical actuator that is configured to cause the flexible surface to achieve a predetermined displacement from the substrate when a corresponding potential is applied thereto. A sensing probe is disposed so as to be configured to interact with the sample thereby sensing the property of the sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08220318&OS=08220318&RS=08220318
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08220318
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070713
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 830 445 filed Jul. 13 2006 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. This application is also a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 260 238 filed Oct. 28 2005 which is a non provisional application claiming priority on U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 691 972 filed on Jun. 17 2005 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 707 219 filed on Aug. 11 2005 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with support from the U.S. government under grant number ECS 0348582 awarded by National Science Foundation and grant number 1 R01 A1060799 01A2 awarder by the National Institutes of Health. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to probe sensing and more specifically to a system for controlling spacing in a probe sensor system with a high level of precision.

Conventional atomic force microscope AFM and its variations have been used to probe a wide range of physical and biological processes including mechanical properties of single molecules electric and magnetic fields of single atoms and electrons. Moreover cantilever based structures inspired by the AFM have been a significant driver for nanotechnology resulting in chemical sensor arrays various forms of lithography tools with high resolution and terabit level data storage systems. Despite the current rate of success the AFM needs to be improved in terms of speed sensitivity and an ability to generate quantitative data on the chemical and mechanical properties of the sample. For example when measuring molecular dynamics at room temperature the molecular forces need to be measured in a time scale that is less than the time of the thermal fluctuations to break the bonds. This requires a high speed system with sub nanonewton and sub nanometer sensitivity.

Current cantilever based structures for AFM probes and their respective actuation methodologies lack speed and sensitivity and have hindered progress in the aforementioned areas. Imaging systems based on small cantilevers have been developed to increase the speed of AFMs but this approach has not yet found wide use due to demanding constraints on optical detection and bulky actuators. Several methods have been developed for quantitative elasticity measurements but the trade off between force resolution measurement speed and cantilever stiffness has been problematic especially for samples with high compliance and high adhesion. Cantilever deflection signals measured during tapping mode imaging have been inverted to obtain elasticity information with smaller impact forces but complicated dynamic response of the cantilever increases the noise level and prevents calculation of the interaction forces. Arrays of AFM cantilevers with integrated piezoelectric actuators have been developed for parallel lithography but low cantilever speed and complex fabrication methods have limited their use.

Most of the scanning probe microscopy techniques including tapping mode imaging and force spectroscopy rely on measurement of the deflection of a micro cantilever with a sharp tip. Therefore the resulting force data depend on the dynamic properties of the cantilever which shapes the frequency response. This can be quite limiting as mechanical structures like cantilevers are resonant vibrating structures and they provide information mostly only around these resonances. For example in tapping mode imaging it is nearly impossible to recover all the information about the tip sample interaction force since the transient force applied at each tap cannot be observed as a clean time signal.

Moreover conventional methods of imaging with scanning probes can be time consuming while others are often destructive because they require static tip sample contact. Dynamic operation of AFM such as the tapping mode eliminates shear forces during the scan. However the only free variable in this mode the phase is related to the energy dissipation and it is difficult to interpret. Further the inverse problem of gathering the time domain interaction forces from the tapping signal is not easily solvable due to complex dynamics of the AFM cantilever. Harmonic imaging is useful to analyze the sample elastic properties but this method recovers only a small part of the tip sample interaction force frequency spectrum.

Applications of atomic force microscopy AFM in life sciences have been increasing in both variety and significance. In addition to high resolution imaging of cells DNA and other biological structures AFM enables single molecule mechanics studies characterizing both intra molecular and intermolecular forces. Studying biological samples in aqueous environments which can be corrosive and electrically conducting imposes challenging electrical isolation requirements. This is especially important for AFM cantilevers or cantilever arrays with integrated piezoelectric detectors or piezoelectric actuators. To collect statistically significant data even on a single type of molecule measurements need to be repeated many times which requires durable sensors. To implement single molecule experiments to protein chips for applications such as drug discovery and screening the throughput needs to be significantly improved. This can be achieved by development of systems that can perform parallel single molecule measurements on many different molecular pairs. Some parallel techniques have been demonstrated for bond rupture frequency measurements where a molecule of known mechanical properties is used as a force gauge. However many other single molecule experiments such as those that measure bond lifetime at a clamped force require applying controlled forces on molecules and measuring these forces with pico Newton resolution. Therefore both parallel actuation and parallel force sensing are required for parallel single molecule mechanics experiments. AFM cantilever arrays with integrated piezoelectric actuators and either optical or piezo resistive sensing have demonstrated this capability. These devices which are used mainly for fast imaging so far require complex fabrication processes and may be difficult to isolate electrically for operation in liquid environments.

Recently membrane based probe structures with electrostatic actuation and integrated diffraction based optical interferometric displacement detection have been introduced for SPM applications. Initial implementation of these force sensing integrated readout and active tip FIRAT devices used aluminum membranes over an unsealed air cavity and hence was not suitable for operation in immersion. A version of these surface micromachined structures suitable for operation in biologically relevant electrically conductive buffer solutions has already been realized for medical ultrasonic imaging applications. These capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducers CMUT use a dielectric material such as silicon nitride as the structural membrane and a metal actuation electrode buried in the dielectric membrane which is electrically isolated from the immersion medium. The cavity between the membrane and the bottom electrode is sealed under low pressure to prevent liquid leakage.

Thus there is a need to overcome these and other problems of the prior art associated with probe microscopy.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is an apparatus for measuring a property of a sample. An actuation device is disposed on a substrate and includes a flexible surface spaced apart from the substrate and configured so as to allow placement of the sample thereupon. The actuation device also includes a vertical actuator that is configured to cause the flexible surface to achieve a predetermined displacement from the substrate when a corresponding potential is applied thereto. A sensing probe is disposed so as to be configured to interact with the sample thereby sensing the property of the sample.

In another aspect the invention is a sensing structure for sensing a property of a sample. A force sensing detector detects a state of a force sensor. An actuation device upon which the sample may be placed has a flexible surface and is spaced apart from a substrate. An actuation device driver controls a displacement of the flexible surface from the substrate by applying a potential to the actuation device. An actuation device displacement sensor detects the displacement of the flexible surface from the substrate. A control circuit is responsive to the force sensing detector and the actuation device displacement sensor. The control circuit directs control information to the actuation device driver so as to cause the displacement of the flexible surface to be a predetermined displacement.

In another aspect the invention is a parallel force spectroscopy apparatus that includes an array of sensing probes that are each capable of sensing a property of a sample. An array of actuation devices each includes a flexible surface that is spaced apart from a substrate. The array of actuation devices is disposed so that each of the actuation devices is configured to interact with exactly one of the sensing probes. A control circuit is configured to apply a potential to each of the actuation devices so as to control displacement of the flexible surface from the substrate.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of detecting a property of a sample in which the sample is placed on an actuator that includes a flexible actuation surface that is spaced apart from a substrate. A sensing probe is placed in a position so as to be configured to interact with the sample. The flexible actuation surface is moved relative to the substrate so that the sample interacts with the sensing probe. Interaction between the sensing probe and the sample is sensed so as to detect the property of the sample.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. 

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part thereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense.

Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the broad scope of the invention are approximations the numerical values set forth in the specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value however inherently contains certain errors necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in their respective testing measurements. Moreover all ranges disclosed herein are to be understood to encompass any and all sub ranges subsumed therein. For example a range of less than 10 can include any and all sub ranges between and including the minimum value of zero and the maximum value of 10 that is any and all sub ranges having a minimum value of equal to or greater than zero and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10 I. 1 to 5.

One representative embodiment of the invention includes FIRAT structures for parallel single molecular force spectroscopy and SPM applications and a fabrication procedure of sealed membrane probe arrays on quartz substrates using a low temperature plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition PECVD dielectric film and a polymer sacrificial layer. Biomolecular bond unbinding force measurements are performed by pulling the molecules using individually actuated membranes thereby eliminating the need for the piezoelectric actuator. Therefore we have demonstrated the feasibility for using these devices in parallel single molecule mechanics experiments.

According to various embodiments there is a force sensor for use in for example probe based instruments such as probe microscopy and structure manipulation. The force sensor can comprise a detection surface a flexible mechanical structure and a gap between the detection surface and the flexible mechanical structure. The force sensors can also comprise a tip in contact with the flexible mechanical structure.

Force sensors described herein can eliminate the corruption of utility such as measurement information that can arise from a cantilever. These force sensors can also be used as actuators to apply known forces providing clean and valuable elasticity information data on surfaces biomolecules and other materials. Moreover these force sensors can be integrated on cantilevers and can be compatible with existing AFM systems while providing accurate tip displacement and also act as active tips. 

According to various embodiments a displacement measurement can be made using a flexible mechanical structure such as a membrane a diaphragm a cantilever a clamped clamped beam a flexible structure comprising multiple flexible elements partially or totally fixed at one end on a substantially rigid surface and connected at a point so as to form a symmetry axis. These flexible mechanical structures can be micro machined. These flexible mechanical structures can have uniform or non uniform cross sections to achieve desired static and dynamic deflection characteristics. For example the vibration modes that are symmetric and anti symmetric with respect to the symmetry axis can be used to detect forces in different directions. These flexible mechanical structures can be made of metals such as gold aluminum or a semiconductor such as single crystal silicon or polycrystalline silicon or dielectric materials such as silicon nitride silicon oxide or a polymer such as SU 8 or they can be a composite structure of metallic semiconducting polymer or dielectric materials. While not intending to be so limited measurements can be made to detect for example localized forces such as a force experienced by a tip contacting the flexible mechanical structure surface topography using for example a flexible mechanical structure with an integrated tip contacting a surface a flexible mechanical structure with an integrated tip in close proximity of a surface or substance and forces between a reactive substance such as a molecule bound to the flexible mechanical structure and another reactive substance such as a molecule bound on a close by structure such as a tip.

According to various embodiments the detection surface can be a surface of a rigid substrate or a part of a rigid substrate with an optically reflective diffraction grating a part of a rigid substrate with a reflective and or electrically conductive diffraction grating for optical interferometric detection and electrostatic actuation a part of a rigid substrate with electrically conductive members for electrostatic actuation and capacitive detection a surface of a rigid substrate with a semi transparent layer for optical interferometry. In some cases the detection surface can be a surface of a deformable mechanical structure such as a membrane clamped clamped beam or a cantilever. The rigidity of the mechanical structure with the detection surface can be substantially higher than the flexible mechanical structure of the force sensor. The detection surface can contain conductive and dielectric portions to have electrical isolation between actuation and detection electrodes. In some cases the deformable detection surface can be actuated and therefore it can contain a separate electrode or piezoelectric film for actuation purposes. Still further in some cases the detection surface can form a substrate.

According to various embodiments displacement can be measured using interferometric techniques or capacitive techniques. For example a grating such as that used in a diffraction based optical interferometric method or any other optical interferometric method such as for example Fabry Perot structures an example of which is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 704 932 filed Nov. 10 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 116 430 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety can be used. Capacitive measurements can use techniques used to monitor capacitance such as that used in capacitive microphones.

The flexible mechanical structure dimensions and materials can be adjusted to have desired compliance and measurement capabilities to make static and dynamic measurements with sufficient bandwidth. The overall shape of the flexible mechanical structure can be circular square or any other suitable shape. Typical lateral dimensions can be from 10 m to 2 mm flexible mechanical structure thickness can be from 10 nm to 3 m and the gap can be from 1 nm to 10 m. In some embodiments the gap can be as large as 1 mm. The flexible mechanical structure material can comprise for example aluminum gold silicon nitride silicon silicon oxide or polysilicon or can be a composite structure of metallic semiconducting and dielectric materials. The gap can be sealed or partially sealed for applications in liquids or it can be open for vacuum and atmospheric measurements.

For some force measurements a soft cantilever may not be required. Using the output from the force sensors in a feedback loop one can use an external actuator to individually adjust the tip flexible mechanical structure tip sample distances. According to various embodiments the flexible mechanical structure can be electrostatically actuated to apply desired forces. According to various embodiments force sensors described herein can be attached to a cantilever to form a force sensor structure. Further the force sensor structure can be combined with a detector to form a force sensor unit that can be used in a probe based instrument.

The detection surface can be made of a material transparent to predetermined wavelengths of light. For example the detection surface can be made from silicon oxide such as quartz. The overall shape of the flexible mechanical structure can be circular square or any other suitable shape. Typical diameters of flexible mechanical structure can range from 5 m to 2 mm and the thickness of flexible mechanical structure can be from 10 nm to 10 m. The flexible mechanical structure can be a micro machined material that can comprise for example aluminum gold silicon nitride silicon oxide or polysilicon.

According to various embodiments the distance D of gap can be from 50 nm to 50 m. Moreover the gap can be sealed for applications in liquids or it can be open for vacuum and atmospheric measurements. In some embodiments the gap can be formed by the flexible mechanical structure can be supported over the detection surface by at least one sidewall. Movement of the flexible mechanical structure or displacement measurements can be made for example using a grating as described below that uses a diffraction based optical interferometric method or any other optical interferometric method or a capacitive method such as in that used in capacitive microphones can be used for detection. According to various embodiments grating periods of the grating can range from about 0.5 m to about 20 m. The incident light can be from the UV with wavelengths starting at about 0.2 m to IR with wavelengths starting at about 1.5 m .

According to various embodiments the force sensor can also include a grating as shown in . In a beam of light can be directed through the detection surface to impinge on the flexible mechanical structure and the grating . According to various embodiments the beam of light can be directed at the detection surface at an angle such as in the range of for example 10o away from normal to the detection surface . A portion of the flexible mechanical structure can be reflective such that light can be reflected from the flexible mechanical structure and another portion can be reflected by the grating . As a result different diffraction orders with different intensity levels can be generated as the light passes through the grating depending on the gap thickness.

For example shows first diffraction order light reflected from the grating and the flexible mechanical structure . The diffracted light can be detected by a detector . It is to be understood that alternatively the detectors can be used to detect changes in capacitance due to changes in the gap .

As shown in a stimuli such as a force can be applied to the flexible mechanical structure . The stimuli causes the flexible mechanical structure to bend or flex shown as . According to various embodiments the flexible mechanical structure can bend in various directions such as toward the detection surface or away from the detection surface . Bending the flexible mechanical structure causes the thickness D of the gap shown in to change.

When using a beam of light the light is reflected in a different direction when the flexible mechanical structure is in the bent position than when the flexible mechanical structure is in the rest position . Further light reflected from the bent flexible mechanical structure interacts differently with the grating to produce changes in the intensity of different diffraction orders shown in as . The detectors can then detect the intensity of the diffracted light output from the grating . This provides a robust micro scale interferometer structure. Generally information obtained from the detectors can be used to determine the stimuli such as the amount of force applied to the flexible mechanical structure . This determination can be done using a computer processor not shown or other various techniques as will be known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Also shown in is a top electrode that can cooperate with for example grating to serve as an actuator as will be described in detail below.

According to various embodiments the detector can be a photo detector such as a silicon photodiode operated in photovoltaic or reverse biased mode or another type of photo detector sensitive in the wavelength range of the light source. Moreover the light can be a coherent light source such as a laser. Exemplary light sources can include but are not limited to helium neon type gas lasers semiconductor laser diodes vertical cavity surface emitting lasers light emitting diodes.

Generally the force sensor can be used to manipulate structures such as atoms molecules or micro electro mechanical systems MEMs or to characterize various material properties of a sample . For example the topography of the sample can be determined by moving the sample in a lateral direction across the tip . It is also contemplated that the sample can remain stationary and the tip can be moved relative to the sample . Changes in height of the sample are detected and cause the tip to move accordingly. The force on the tip caused by for example the tip motion can cause the flexible mechanical structure to bend or flex as shown by . Light can also be directed through detection surface to impinge on the flexible mechanical structure . The light is reflected from the flexible mechanical structure and diffracted by the grating . As the tip applies force to the flexible mechanical structure the thickness of the gap changes. This can cause the reflected light to diffract differently than if the flexible mechanical structure were in its un bent position. Thus different diffraction orders intensity can change depending on the gap thickness.

After passing through the grating the diffracted light can be detected by the detectors . The output from the flexible mechanical structure can be used in a feedback loop to direct an external actuator not shown to adjust the tip flexible mechanical structure distance i.e. the gap thickness and thus the tip sample distance d . The flexible mechanical structure can be electrostatically actuated to apply desired forces or to adjust the tip flexible mechanical structure distance i.e. the gap thickness and thus the tip sample distance d by biasing electrodes and attached to the grating and the top electrode respectively. Although two detectors are shown in one of ordinary skill in the art understands that one or more detectors can be used.

According to various embodiments the force sensor can form an integrated phase sensitive diffraction grating structure that can measure the flexible mechanical structure and or tip displacement with the sensitivity of a Michelson interferometer. The displacement of the tip due to stimuli acting on it can be monitored by illuminating the diffraction grating through the transparent detection surface with a coherent light source and the intensity of the reflected diffraction orders can be recorded by the detectors at fixed locations. The resulting interference curve is typically periodic with 2 where is the optical wavelength in air. According to an exemplary embodiment the displacement detection can be within the range of about 4 167.5 nm for 670 nm in the case of a fixed grating . However the detection surface and the grating can be moved by suitable actuators to extend this imaging range. Furthermore the grating can be located not at the center but closer to the clamped edges of the flexible mechanical structure to increase the equivalent detectable tip motion range. In the case of a microscope the active tip can be moved by electrostatic forces applied to the flexible mechanical structure using the diffraction grating as an integrated rigid actuator electrode. In some applications this actuator can be used to adjust the tip position for optimal displacement sensitivity to provide a force feedback signal to an external actuator moving the transparent detection surface .

In some embodiments such as applications requiring high speeds this integrated actuator can be used as the only actuator in the feedback loop to move the tip with a speed determined by the flexible mechanical structure dynamics both in liquids and in air.

The force sensors can be used to characterize various material properties of the reactive substance. For example biomolecular bonding can be determined by moving the tip contacted by a reactive substance including for example inorganic molecules and or organic molecules such as biomolecules over the force sensors . It is also contemplated that the tip can remain stationary and the force sensors can be moved relative to the tip . The reactive substance on the flexible mechanical structure can be attracted to the reactive substance on the tip . A stimuli such as a force light or temperature on for example the force sensor or the tip caused by for example the molecular attraction a light source or a temperature source can cause the flexible mechanical structure to bend or flex as shown by . Light can also be directed through detection surface to impinge on the flexible mechanical structure. The light is reflected from the flexible mechanical structure and then diffracted by the grating . As the stimuli displaces the flexible mechanical structure the thickness of the gap changes. This can cause the reflected light to diffract differently than if the flexible mechanical structure were in its un bent position. Thus different diffraction order intensities can be generated as the light passes through the grating depending on the gap thickness. After passing through the grating the diffracted light can be detected by the detectors . The output from the flexible mechanical structure can be used in a feedback loop to direct an external actuator not shown to adjust the tip flexible mechanical structure distance i.e. the gap thickness and thus the tip sample distance d . According to various embodiments the flexible mechanical structure can be electrostatically actuated to apply desired forces by biasing electrodes and attached to the grating and the top electrode respectively.

By using a variety of techniques disclosed herein displacements from 1 mm down to 1 10 6 Hz or lower can be measured. As such forces from 1N down to 1 pN can be detected with 10 kHz bandwidth with an effective spring constant of the sensor flexible mechanical structure from about 0.001N m to about 1000N m at its softest point. These mechanical parameters can be achieved by micro machined flexible mechanical structures such as MEMs microphone flexible mechanical structures. Therefore using flexible mechanical structure surfaces and tips functionalized by interacting reactive substances as shown in force spectroscopy measurements can be performed in parallel using optical or electrostatic readout.

For example in the case of rupture force measurements the reactive substance such as a molecule is pulled and if the bond is intact the flexible mechanical structure is also pulled out while the displacement i.e. applied force is measured. With the bond rupture the flexible mechanical structure comes back to rest position. The force sensor flexible mechanical structures can be individually actuated to apply pulling forces to individual molecules and measuring their extensions allowing for array operation.

The cantilever can be used to provide periodic tapping impact force for tapping mode imaging to apply controlled forces for contact mode or molecular pulling experiments. Because the flexible mechanical structure can be stiffer than the cantilever and can be damped by immersion in a liquid the measurement bandwidth can be much larger than the cantilever . Furthermore optical readout of the diffraction orders can directly provide tip displacement because the diffraction orders can be generated by the grating under the flexible mechanical structure .

According to various embodiments the reflector can be used to beam bounce to find cantilever deflection for feedback if needed. In some cases the tip force sensor output can provide the real force feedback signal. The cantilever and the flexible mechanical structure dimensions can be adjusted for the measurement speed and force requirements.

Using electrically isolated electrodes the flexible mechanical structure can be actuated so as to have an active tip . Further the actuated flexible mechanical structure can optimize the optical detection or capacitive detection sensitivity in air or in liquid environments. shows an application of a force sensor structure comprising a sensor on a cantilever where the tip is active as shown by arrow . In the active tip can be used to apply known forces to the surface of sample using electrostatic actuation and optical interferometric displacement detection or capacitive displacement detection can be achieved. The tip can be activated for example by applying a bias between the grating and the top electrode . Further a DC force shown by arrow can be used to keep the tip in constant contact with the sample.

Light can be directed to the flexible mechanical structure and the orders of light diffracted by the grating can be detected by the detector . Similar to the force sensor shown in designing the dimensions of the flexible mechanical structure base or choosing the operation frequency at an anti resonance of the cantilever the flexible mechanical structure can be moved and hence the tip can be pushed into the sample by known electrostatic forces. Accordingly displacements of the flexible mechanical structure can be measured optically or capacitively. Furthermore in some embodiments there is no need for an active tip on the force sensor. Moreover for optical measurements the gap between the flexible mechanical structure and the grating can be optimized during fabrication of the force sensor. Thus there is no need to actively adjust that gap during tapping mode operation as shown in . Similarly for capacitive detection an electrical connection for detection of capacitance changes can be provided. In that case the force sensor can be connected to a detection circuit such as used in a capacitive microphone for measuring the force on the tip .

The thickness of the base or the substrate supporting the flexible mechanical structure can be adjusted to control the operation frequency to insure that the motion of the flexible mechanical structure produces an indentation in the sample surface. This measurement therefore provides surface elasticity information directly. According to various embodiments the frequency of electrostatic actuation can be in the ultrasonic range. Alternatively a wideband impulse force can be applied and resulting displacements can be detected in the bandwidth of the flexible mechanical structure displacement force sensor. For these applications it may be desirable to move the higher cantilever vibration mode frequencies away from the first resonance. This can be achieved for example by increasing the mass close to the tip of the cantilever such as by adjusting the thickness or mass of the base . With added mass the cantilever acts more like a single mode mass spring system and can generate tapping signals without spurious vibrations and can also be effective at a broad range of frequencies.

In general for tapping mode AFM and UAFM applications a broadband stiff tip displacement measurement sensor structure can be integrated into compliant structures such as regular AFM cantilevers. Although flexible mechanical structures are primarily described here according to another embodiment the tip displacement measurement structure can be a stiff beam structure with the same cross section of the flexible mechanical structure or another stiff cantilever as shown for example in . In there is a force sensor structure comprising a force sensor a compliant structure a tip and a flexible mechanical structure such as a stiff broadband structure. In this case the stiff broadband structure can be a small cantilever mounted to an end of the compliant structure also a cantilever. The small cantilever can be spaced a distance d from the compliant structure . The compliant structure can be used to control the impact and or contact force of the tip mounted to a side of the stiff broadband structure . Further the stiff broadband structure can be used to measure tip displacements. Displacement of the tip can be measured for example optically electrostatically capacitively piezoelectrically or piezoresistively.

According to various embodiments for fast imaging and tapping mode applications the cantilever can be eliminated. In this case a fast x y scan of a sample or the integrated tip can be used with the described sensor actuator for tapping and detecting forces. The large fast z axis motion can be generated for example by a piezoelectric actuator that moves the base of the force sensor which can be a thick rigid substrate.

The sensitivity of a force sensor in accordance with the present teachings can be described by the following exemplary embodiment depicted in . In a rectangular silicon AFM cantilever with a tip is vibrated at 57 kHz above a 150 m diameter 1 m thick aluminum flexible mechanical structure with an integrated diffraction grating . The force sensor flexible mechanical structure is built on a quartz detection surface or substrate . A DC bias of 37V is applied to move the flexible mechanical structure to a position of optimal detection sensitivity and the vibrating tip is brought close enough to have tapping mode like operation with intermittent contact. Diffraction order can be detected by detector when a beam is diffracted by grating upon exiting force sensor .

The single shot signals collected at this position are shown at the top two rows Row and Row of the four rows of the graph in . The bottom graph in shows a zoomed in version of Row of individual taps where the transient displacement of the flexible mechanical structure due to impact of the tip is clearly seen. If the flexible mechanical structure material were softer or there were a compliant coating on the flexible mechanical structure the measured tap signals would be longer in duration and smaller in amplitude because the tip would spend more time indenting the softer surface while transmitting less force to the flexible mechanical structure . Therefore the tapping force measurement provides elasticity information and this embodiment can be used as a material property sensor for a thin film coating on the flexible mechanical structure.

In addition when the tip leaves contact the flexible mechanical structure is pulled away due to adhesion or capillary forces permitting force spectroscopy measurement methods. When the tip is moved progressively closer it is in contact with the flexible mechanical structure for a longer duration of each cycle and finally it pushes the flexible mechanical structure down during the whole cycle. Thus the simple force sensing structures disclosed herein provide information not available by conventional AFM methods and result in more effective tools for force spectroscopy applications.

The sensitivity of another force sensor in accordance with the present teaching can be described by the following exemplary embodiment depicted in . As shown in a quartz substrate with a sensor flexible mechanical structure is placed on a piezoelectric stack transducer which can be used to approach to the tip and obtain force distance curves. The flexible mechanical structure is aluminum and can be 150 m in diameter 1 m thick and located over a 2 m gap above the rigid diffraction grating electrode . In this case the grating period is 4 m. The gap is open to air through several sacrificial layer etch holes not shown . The grating can be illuminated through the quartz substrate using for example a HeNe laser 632 nm at a 5 angle away from normal to the substrate. The output optical signal can be obtained by recording the intensity of the 1st diffraction order beam

For measuring the AFM dynamic tip sample interaction forces the cantilever can be glued on a piezoelectric AC drive transducer that can drive the cantilever at its resonant frequency. The flexible mechanical structure with a stiffness of approximately 76N m as measured at the center using a calibrated AFM cantilever can be used. The DC bias on the flexible mechanical structure is adjusted to 27V to optimize the optical detection and the sensitivity is calibrated as 16 mV nm by contacting the flexible mechanical structure with a calibrated AFM cantilever and a calibrated piezo driver. In this case the broadband RMS noise level of the system was about 3 mV 0.18 nm without much effort to reduce mechanical laser or electrical noise.

A force curve can be produced by moving the piezoelectric stack supporting the substrate with a 20 Hz 850 nm triangular signal and making sure that there is tip flexible mechanical structure contact during a portion of the signal period. The cantilever can be for example a FESP from Veeco Metrology Santa Barbara Calif. with k 2.8N m.

For direct observation of time resolved dynamic interaction forces along the force curve a similar experiment can be performed while the cantilever is driven into oscillation by applying a sinusoidal signal to the AC drive piezo at 67.3 kHz. The single shot transient flexible mechanical structure displacement signal obtained during a cycle of the Hz drive signal is shown in . Dynamic interaction force measurements provide various types of information as indicated by the various interaction regimes A C during the measurement. The data of is shown expanded in in the initial tapping region A intermittent to continuous contact region B and continuous to intermittent contact transition region C respectively.

Starting from the left the cantilever tip is first out of contact with the flexible mechanical structure . At around 1 ms it starts intermittent contact tapping with the flexible mechanical structure as individual taps are detected as shown in . As the cantilever gets closer to the flexible mechanical structure the pulses become uni polar and the distortion is more severe as there are double peaked tap signals when the cantilever gets into contact due to non linear interaction forces as shown . When the tip is in continuous contact which happens around 4.2 ms the displacement signal has the periodicity of the drive signal in addition to distortion that can be caused by contact non linearities and higher order vibration modes of the cantilever with its tip hinged on the flexible mechanical structure . Similarly around 15 ms the cantilever starts breaking off the flexible mechanical structure surface and tapping resumes as shown in . Between 7 ms and 12 ms the curve is not linear.

Individual tapping signals can be filtered by the dynamic response of the flexible mechanical structure . In this example the force sensor was not optimized and the flexible mechanical structure acted as a lightly damped resonator with a resonant frequency at 620 kHz rather than having broadband frequency response that is ideal for fast interaction force measurements. Nevertheless the transfer function of the flexible mechanical structure can be obtained using for example integrated electrostatic actuators as described herein.

Still further shows the measured temporal response of the flexible mechanical structure when a 2V square pulse 100 ns in length is applied in addition to the 27V DC bias at the actuator terminals. Comparing the trace waveform in with averaged data from individual tap signals shown in it can be seen that the stiff cantilever tap is nearly an impulsive force which can be recovered by inverse filtering.

Thus according to various embodiments minimum displacement detection levels down to 10 4 Hz can be measured and mechanical structures with spring constants in the 0.001 to 10N m range can be built that can monitor force levels in the pico Newton range. These sensitivity levels can make it useful for a wide range of probe microscopy applications including quantitative interaction force measurements fast imaging in liquids and in air and probe arrays for imaging lithography and single molecule force spectroscopy.

While are examples of sensitivity testing made by applying a force from a tip to the force sensor similar sensitivities can be achieved when a tip is mounted to the force sensor and the force sensor is used to characterize a sample.

Each of the plurality of separate top electrodes can be electrically isolated and formed in the flexible mechanical structure . Moreover the bottom electrode can spaced apart from the separate top electrodes by the gap . Further the bottom electrode can be positioned in the substrate and can be contacted by electrode terminals . Similarly each of the separate top electrodes can be contacted by electrode terminals . In some cases the electrode terminals and can be capacitive sensing terminals that can detect a capacitance change formed between the separate top electrodes and the bottom electrode .

In a voltage can be applied between the electrode terminals and . The voltage can be used to independently control and move any of the separate top electrodes so that they can serve as actuators. Further the separate top electrodes can also perform sensing similar to that of a dual electrode capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducer where the vibrations of the sensor flexible mechanical structure are converted to electrical current signals through change in capacitance.

For example the force sensor can be used for fast imaging where bias voltages are applied between the electrode terminals and the bottom electrode terminal and alternating voltages of the same or reverse phase are applied to the electrode terminals and to vibrate the tip vertically or laterally to have intermittent contact with a sample surface. In some cases the forces between the tip and a close by surface can be sensed without contact for non contact imaging. The bias voltages applied to the electrode terminals also control the position of the tip in response to changes in capacitance detected between the electrode terminals and the bottom electrode terminal . An external controller not shown can read the detected capacitance change and generate the control signals bias voltages applied to the electrode terminals and the bottom electrode terminal

The detection surface can be positioned at a free end of the cantilever . Moreover the flexible mechanical structure can be fully clamped around its circumference it can be a clamped clamped beam with a rectangular or H shape where the short edges at the ends are clamped or it can be a cantilever structure or a similar structure that changes shape in a predictable manner in response to a force applied to the tip .

The force sensor shown in can be used for lateral force or friction measurements. For example force sensor can be used to sense torsion created on the flexible mechanical structure shown as . Separate top electrodes can be positioned on the flexible mechanical structure to excite the torsional motion or resonances. Similarly the flexible mechanical structure can be bent asymmetrically shown as due to torsion created by the tip or due to out of phase actuation from the first grating the second grating and the top electrodes acting as electrostatic actuators. In particular a voltage can be applied to the electrical contacts and that contact the first grating and the top electrode respectively. The same voltage can be applied to the electrical contacts and that contact the second grating and the a top electrode respectively. Applying this same voltage can cause the flexible mechanical structure to bend up and down. In contrast similarly applying a differential voltage can cause torsion of the flexible mechanical structure .

A light beam can be directed through the detection surface to impinge on the flexible mechanical structure . The beam reflects off of the flexible mechanical structure a portion of which can be reflective and is diffracted differently by the first grating and the second grating . As shown in the first grating can generate a first set of diffraction orders and the second grating can generate a second set of diffraction orders . The detectors can detect the different diffraction orders. The detector outputs can be added to obtain up and down bending displacement detection. Similarly the outputs can be subtracted to obtain torsional motion and force detection. This information can be obtained when the spring constant for the second bending mode torsion around the mid axis of the flexible mechanical structure clamped clamped beam or a cantilever is known. Thus in addition to acting as actuators the first grating and second grating can be used to optically or capacitively decouple the bending motion from the torsional motion. As such the sensed outputs of these detectors yield both bending and torsional motion information. One can also use separate beams to illuminate the plurality of gratings.

The force sensor shown in can extend the tip actuation range without degradation in optical displacement measurement sensitivity. For example the tip can be positioned at a relatively large distance away from the grating . In this manner the tip can be moved large distances without shorting or damaging the sensor . Moreover the grating can be actuated to keep the detection sensitivity at an optimal level. For example the gating can be actuated a distance of 4 where is the wavelength of light to provide proper sensitivity.

The tip and flexible mechanical structure can be spaced away from the grating in various ways. For example rigid supports can be formed on the first detection surface to support the first detection surface . In this manner the flexible mechanical structure is separated from the grating at a predetermined distance. A second detection surface can be separated from the first detection surface by a gap so as to provide a predetermined separation distance. The grating can be formed on the second detection surface .

Operation of the sensor is similar to that described above. For example light is directed through the first detection surface which can be transparent. The light passes through the transparent conductor and through the grating and impinges the flexible mechanical structure . The light is reflected from the flexible mechanical structure and is diffracted by grating before being detected by detectors .

According to various embodiments the thin piezoelectric film can comprise a piezoelectric material such as for example ZnO or AlN. The piezoelectric film can be deposited and patterned on the flexible mechanical structure along with the tip . The piezoelectric actuator can form for example a bimorph structure that can be bent and vibrated by applying DC and AC signals through the electrodes and . According to various embodiments the grating can be placed off center so as to provide a large range of tip motion that can be detected without losing sensitivity.

For example force sensor can be used to measure and image the elasticity or adhesion of the surface of sample . Further the grating can be used with electrode to provide actuation of the flexible mechanical structure by applying a voltage between contacts and respectively. The elasticity information can be measured by applying known dynamic and quasi static forces to the surface with the tip using an external actuator or by applying voltage to the terminals and . At the same time the diffraction order intensities can be monitored by the optical detectors or a capacitance change can be detected by electrical means to determine the resulting tip displacement. visco elasticity or adhesion can be calculated using computer models well known by those who are skilled in the art of probe microscopy.

Force sensor can be used to measure and image the topography of the surface of sample similarly as described herein using beam to generate diffraction orders that can be detected by detectors . In the case of force sensor the grating can be used with electrode to provide actuation of the flexible mechanical structure by applying a voltage between contacts and respectively.

Still further the force sensor can be used to measure and image the surface potential of sample . In the case of force sensor the grating can be used with electrode to provide actuation of the flexible mechanical structure by applying a voltage between contacts and respectively. Moreover the sample can be biased with respect to the tip of the force sensor using the electrical terminal to assist in surface potential measurements. The tip on the force sensor can have a separate electrical terminal which is electrically isolated from the other electrodes and and placed in the dielectric sensor flexible mechanical structure . The surface potential can then be measured using a electric potential measurement device connected between terminals and . Furthermore an external source can be connected to terminals and and the current flow in that electrical circuit can be measured to determine locally the flow of ions or electrons available from the sample or in a solution that the force sensor is immersed.

As described previously the fore sensors and can be used to obtain surface topography and elasticity information. This information can be used by an external controller to adjust the position of the tips of individual force sensors to optimize the measurements. As such the array can be used to measure elasticity electrochemical potential optical reflectivity and fluorescence while also imaging the surface.

In operation as shown for example in a light can be directed at the cantilever through the hole . The light is reflected from the cantilever and then diffracted by the grating . Various diffraction orders can be detected by detectors .

As shown in the force sensor can be fabricated for example on a detection surface and placed on a holder which can be attached to an external piezoelectric actuator piezo tube . The intensity of for example the 1st diffraction order of light diffracted by a grating in the force sensor is detected by the detector as the tip displacement signal. For example with a 4 m grating period and a 670 nm laser wavelength the 1st diffraction order is reflected at a 9.6 angle from the grating normal. Tilting the detection surface by 6.2 with respect to the incident beam provides a total of 22 angular deflection. According to various embodiments with the force sensor significantly all of the light can be reflected from the grating and the flexible mechanical structure eliminating optical interference problems due to reflections from the sample . This can provide a clean background for tip displacement measurements.

The performance of the AFM having a force sensor such as those described herein can be characterized using an integrated electrostatic actuator. For example an optical interference curve with a DC bias range of 24 36 V was traced and the bias was adjusted for optimum sensitivity point at 30 V. The displacement sensitivity at this bias level was 204 mV nm. The RMS noise measured in the full DC 800 kHz bandwidth of the photodetector was 18 mV RMS. This value confirmed by spectrum analyzer measurements corresponds to 1 10 3 Hz minimum detectable displacement noise with 1 f corner frequency of 100 Hz. Using the laser power available from the 0th and 1st orders and differential detection this value can be lowered well below 5 10 4 Hz without increasing the laser power or using etalon detection. The dynamic response of a typical flexible mechanical structure was also measured using electrostatic actuation indicating a resonance frequency of 720 kHz with a quality factor of 4.1 suitable for fast tapping mode imaging.

Two controller schemes interfaced with the AFM system can be used. The first scheme is used with the first processor comprising a controller and a RMS detector for material property measurement and imaging using transient interaction force signals. The Z input of the piezo tube is driven to generate a 2 kHz 120 nm peak sinusoidal signal while the controller keeps constant the RMS value of the photo detector signal generated by the force sensor when it taps on the sample . The 2 kHz signal frequency is chosen as a compromise between the ability to generate adequate vertical Z direction displacement of the piezo tube and the frequency response of the internal RMS detector for a typical force sensor structure . The second controller scheme is used with the second processor for fast tapping mode imaging. In this case the Z input of the piezo tube is disabled and the integrated electrostatic actuator is used to generate a 10 nm peak to peak free air tapping signal in the 500 700 kHz range as well as the signals to control the force sensor tip position keeping the RMS value of the tip vibration at the desired set point.

In this particular case during phase I the tip is away from the sample surface where it experiences long range attractive forces. When brought close to the surface the tip jumps to contact 0.2 nm change in tip position phase II and remains in contact for about 14 of the cycle. In the middle of the period the repulsive force applied to the sample reaches to a peak value of 163 nN 1.22 nm tip displacement phase III . When the tip is withdrawn the tip experiences capillary forces of 133 nN phase IV before breaking off from the liquid film on the sample surface phase V . As shown in the controller of can be used to stabilize the signal with a constant RMS so that the output signal of the force sensor shows individual and repeatable taps on the sample . The signals shown are averaged 100 times on a digitizing oscilloscope and the noise level is less than 1 nN with 800 kHz measurement bandwidth.

An application of this mode of operation is the measurement of local visco elastic properties. For example in individual tap signals obtained on 100 silicon E 117 GPa and photoresist PR Shipley 1813 E 4 GPa samples using a sensor with having a tip 50 nm radius of curvature were compared. The maximum repulsive force is significantly larger for the silicon sample even though the tip sample contact time is less than that of photoresist PR indicating that the silicon is stiffer than PR. Consequently the positive slope of the time signal during the initial contact to silicon sample is significantly larger than it is when in contact with the PR sample. The silicon sample also shows higher capillary hysteresis. Both of these results are consistent with existing models and data. Moreover the tip can encounter different long range van der Waals or electrostatic forces on these two samples.

The results shown in demonstrate a unique feature of the force sensors described herein for dynamic force measurements. In particular the output signal is generated only when there is an interaction force on the tip. With broad bandwidth and high sensitivity the force sensors enable direct measurement of transient interaction forces during each individual tap with high resolution and without background signal. This provides information on properties of the sample such as adhesion capillary forces as well as visco elasticity.

The force sensor can be used to image various material properties by recording at each pixel the salient features of the tap signal. For example the AFM system shown in can be used to monitor transient interaction forces. The first controller of system can be used to maintain a constant RMS value of the output signal while scanning the tapping tip . shows the transient tap signals on the PR and silicon regions of a sample that having 360 nm thick 2 m wide PR strips with 4 m periodicity patterned on silicon surface. Significant differences exist between the tap signals in terms of both the attractive and repulsive forces acting on the tip . For example the silicon surface exhibits a much larger adhesion force when compared to the PR surface. Because the first controller attempts to maintain a constant RMS value over the sample it forces the tip to indent more into the PR region. As such the tip experiences a larger repulsive force. The shape of the individual tap signals in the attractive region has a strong dependence on the environment.

To form an image in which sample adhesion dominates the contrast mechanism a peak detector circuit can be used to record the peak attractive force PAF as the pixel value such as points Asi APR in . Simultaneously the sample topography can be recorded using a fixed RMS value set point. shows the resulting adhesion PAF and topography images and respectively of the sample. In the topography image the stripes correspond to the 360 nm high PR pattern Shipley 1805 and stripes correspond to the silicon surface. In the PAF image the silicon surface appears brighter than PR due to higher adhesion forces. By recording the peak repulsive force PRF as the pixel value images where sample visco elasticity dominates the contrast such as at points Rsi RPR in can be obtained.

Simultaneously recorded PRF and topography images of the same sample region are shown in at and respectively. The PRF image shows a reversed contrast when compared to the PAF image while the topography image is repeatable. The PR strips appear brighter in the PRF image as indicated by the individual tap signals shown in . Also many more contamination particles are adhered to the silicon surface as compared to the PR strips and these particles are seen with high contrast. This is consistent with higher adhesion measured on the silicon in the PAF image .

Although a simple controller based on the RMS value set point is described in this embodiment it is contemplated that different control schemes such as those sampling individual tap signals at desired time instants and use those values in the control loop can also be used. For example if the peak value of the repulsive force is kept constant as the control variable images where the contact to peak force time determines the contrast a direct measure of sample stiffness can be obtained. Several existing models can then be used to convert these images to quantitative material properties. Similarly by detecting the attractive force peaks before and after the contact one can obtain quantitative information on the hysteresis of the adhesion forces.

A standard calibration grating with 20 nm high 1 m wide sharp steps with 2 m periodicity was used as the fast imaging sample NGR 22010 from Veeco Metrology . shows the images of a 4 m 250 nm area 512 16 pixels of the grating with line scan rates of 1 Hz 5 Hz 20 Hz and 60 Hz. shows the cross sectional profiles of individual scan lines for each image. The AFM system had an x y scan capability that can go up to 60 Hz.

For comparison show the tapping mode images and line scans using a conventional AFM system on the same sample used in the example of . The commercial AFM system used a tapping mode cantilever. The cantilever was made of silicon and had a 300 kHz resonance frequency TESP A from Veeco Metrology . In this case the tapping piezo on the cantilever holder was used as the actuator.

As can be seen in the figures AFM systems described herein are able to resolve the grating with at least a 20 Hz line scan rate and in some cases a 60 Hz line scan rate. In contrast conventional AFM systems are not able to follow the sharp steps starting at 5 Hz and fail to produce a viable image after 20 Hz line scan rate. The imaging bandwidth of the AFM system described herein was about 6 kHz. However controlling the dynamics of the air flow in and out of etch holes on two sides of the flexible mechanical structure such as those shown at in . With a sealed cavity the imaging bandwidth of various force sensors described herein can be increased to more than 60 kHz. Moreover since the force sensor unit is a well damped system even in air methods other than RMS detection can be used to implement faster controllers.

The light source can be an optical fiber or the end of a micro fabricated waveguide with an appropriate reflector to direct the light to the desired location in the force sensor unit such as a diffraction grating . The optical diffraction grating structure exists above the light source and is characterized by alternating regions of reflective and transparent passages. A gap forming a cavity is formed between the grating and the detection surface can be sealed at some desired pressure including low pressures with any gas or gas mixture or can be open to ambient. Further a flexible mechanical structure also called a reflective surface or reflective diaphragm exists above the diffraction grating that reflects light back towards the detection surface . The diffraction grating and the reflective surface together form a phase sensitive diffraction grating.

When illuminated with the light source as shown diffracted light reflects back towards the detection surface in the form of diffracted orders and with intensity depending on the relative position between the reflective surface and the diffraction grating or the gap thickness. The diffracted orders and emerge on both the right and left side and are traditionally numbered as shown in . For the phase sensitive diffraction grating with 50 fill factor i.e. reflective and transparent passages with the same width only the zero order and all odd orders emerge. The intensity of any one or any subset of these orders can be measured with photo diodes to obtain information about the relative distance between the diffraction grating and the reflective surface . The angles of the orders are determined by the diffraction grating period g and the wavelength of the incident light . For example in the far field the angle of the order n n will be given by the relation 1 

In order to illustrate how the intensity of the reflected orders depends on the gap thickness the normalized intensity of the zero and first orders are plotted versus the gap in assuming normal incidence. The remaining odd orders i.e. 3rd 5th etc. are in phase with the 1st but have decreasing peak intensities. This behavior can be obtained when the light source remains coherent over the distance between the reflector and the diffraction grating .

Furthermore the diffracted orders can be steered to desired locations using structures such as Fresnel lenses. For this purpose the gratings can be curved or each grating finger can be divided into sections of sub wavelength sized gratings.

Also using wavelength division multiplexing light with different wavelengths can be combined and used to illuminate a multiplicity of force sensors with different grating periods. The reflected diffraction orders from different force sensors can either be converted to electrical signals by separate photodetectors or the reflected light at different wavelengths can be combined in an optical waveguide or optical fiber to minimize the number of optical connections to a processor that subsequently decodes the information carried at different wavelengths. Therefore a multiplicity of force sensors can be interrogated using a single physical link or a reduced number of physical links to a processing system.

According to various embodiments such as chemical and biological sensors the reflective surface can be made of single material or a multi layered material that changes its optical properties such as reflectivity in response to a chemical or biological agent. Similarly the reflective surface can be a micromachined cantilever or a bridge structure made of single or layered material that deforms due to thermal chemical magnetic or other physical stimulus. For example an infrared IR sensor can be constructed by having a bimorph structure including an IR absorbing outer layer and a reflective layer facing the light source . In other embodiments such as a microphone or a pressure sensor the reflector can be in the shape of a diaphragm.

In many applications moving or controlling the position of the reflective surface may be desired for self calibration sensitivity optimization and signal modulation purposes. For example if the reflective surface is a diaphragm or flexible mechanical structure as in the case of a microphone or a capacitive micromachined transducer vibrating the diaphragm to produce sound in a surrounding fluid may be desired for transmission and self calibration. Also while measuring the displacement of the diaphragm controlling the nominal gap height to a position that will result in maximum possible sensitivity for the measurement may be desired. These positions correspond to points of maximum slope on the curves in where it can be seen graphically that a change in gap thickness results in a maximum change in intensity of the diffracted order. These examples can use an added actuation function that can be accomplished with electrostatic actuation. In one exemplary embodiment the entire diaphragm structure or just a certain region thereof can be made electrically conductive. This can be accomplished by using a non conductive material for the reflective surface such as a stretched polymer flexible mechanical structure polysilicon silicon nitride or silicon carbide and then making the material conductive in the desired regions either through doping or by depositing and patterning a conductive material such as aluminum silver or any metal or doping the flexible mechanical structure such as when the flexible mechanical structure comprises polysilicon.

In another exemplary embodiment the entire diffraction grating or a portion of the grating can be made conductive. The flexible mechanical structure and diffraction grating can together form a capacitor which can hold charge under an applied voltage. The strength of the attraction pressure generated by the charges can be adjusted by controlling the voltage and precise control of the flexible mechanical structure position is possible.

This displacement measuring scheme has the sensitivity of a Michelson interferometer which can be used to measure displacements down to 1 10 6 for 1 Hz bandwidth for 1 mW laser power. Various embodiments disclosed herein can provide this interferometric sensitivity in a very small volume and can enable integration of light source reference mirrors and detectors in a mechanically stable monolithic or hybrid package. This compact implementation further reduces the mechanical noise in the system and also enables easy fabrication of arrays. The high sensitivity and low noise achieved by the various embodiments far exceed the performance of other microphones or pressure sensors based on capacitive detection.

Several material choices exist for the detection surface that is transparent at the wavelength of the incident light. These include quartz sapphire and many different types of glass and it can be silicon for light in the certain region of the IR spectrum. Furthermore several manufactures sell these materials as standard 100 mm diameter 500 m thick wafers which makes them suitable for all micro fabrication processes including lithographic patterning. As in the force sensor several different material types may be used for the flexible mechanical structure and the cavity between the platform and diaphragm may be evacuated or filled with any type of gas mixture.

The diffraction grating may be made of any reflective material as long as the dimensions are chosen to produce a compliant structure that may be moved electrostatically. As explained for force sensor electrostatic actuation requires a top and bottom electrode. According to various embodiments the diffraction gating can serve as the top electrode and the bottom electrode can be formed on the substrate . Furthermore the distance between these electrodes can be small order of a micrometer to be able to perform the actuation with reasonable voltage levels 

The bottom mirror and the top mirror can be separated by the grating embedded gap or cavity as illustrated in . As mentioned the flexible mechanical structure can have a high reflectance and can act as the top mirror and the bottom mirror can be placed beneath the diffraction grating . The mirror layers can be built for example using a thin metal film a dielectric stack of alternating quarter wave 4 thick media or combination of these two materials.

In contrast to the dielectric mirror case peak intensity amplitude of the first order decreases with the metal mirror reflectance due to the optical loss in the metal film and thus metals of low absorption loss provide good results for the metal mirror applications. In addition the optimal bias position moves toward to a multiple of 2 with the reflectance of the metal mirror. However the optimal bias position can be easily achieved through electrostatic actuation of the flexible mechanical structure .

The scheme of the resonant cavity enhanced optical force sensor can be also applied to the other microstructures described herein with a simple modification of fabrication process.

In addition to remote measurements the force sensor can be remotely actuated to modulate the output signal. For example an acoustic signal at a desired frequency can be directed to the flexible mechanical structure with the grating and the output signal can be measured at the same frequency using a method such as a lock in amplifier. The magnitude and phase of the output signal can give information on the location of the flexible mechanical structure on the optical intensity curve in shown in which in turn may depend on static pressure and other parameters such as temperature etc. Similar modulation techniques can be implemented using electromagnetic radiation where an electrostatically biased flexible mechanical structure with fixed charges on it can be moved by applying electromagnetic forces. In this case the flexible mechanical structure can be made of some dielectric material with low charge leakage.

Various methods can be used to control the thickness of the gap such as for example controlling the flexible mechanical structure position the grating position or both. Furthermore the force sensor allows placement of the grating anywhere in the cavity between the light source and the flexible mechanical structure .

According to various embodiments the use of highly reflective semi transparent layers to enhance displacement sensitivity using Fabry Perot cavity as described by for example the embodiment shown in . For example a Fabry Perot cavity can be implemented with any of the other embodiments mentioned so far when using semitransparent layer is placed in close proximity to the diffraction grating

For example the sensors shown in can place a semi transparent layer on the top or bottom surface of the grating. Further the force sensor shown in can place a semi transparent layer on either the top or backside of the flexible mechanical structure which is where the diffraction grating is located in this case.

For example depicts a cross sectional schematic diagram of another exemplary force sensor in accordance with the present teachings. shows a force sensor comprising a detection surface a flexible mechanical structure also called a diaphragm a first gap A also called a first cavity a second gap B also called a second cavity a first grating A also called a reference grating a second grating B also called a sensing grating a detector and a light source . The second grating B can be formed on the flexible mechanical structure which can be transparent. Moreover the flexible mechanical structure can be formed over the first grating A.

In this embodiment the flexible mechanical structure is or has a reflective diffraction grating second grating B rather than a mirror like uniform reflector surface described above. Moreover the second grating B on the flexible mechanical structure reflector can have the same periodicity as the first grating B but can be offset and can have diffraction fingers whose widths are smaller than the gap between the first grating A. This offset allows some of the incident light to pass through. This structure as shown in allows some of the incident light from light source to transmit through the whole force sensor and also introduces new diffraction orders in the reflected field. As such this provides a different kind of phase grating than those described above.

In contrast when the difference between and is m m 1 3 5 . . . the apparent period of the grating is 2 g apparent reflectivity of 1 0 1 0 1 regions assuming perfect transmission through the flexible mechanical structure and the odd diffraction orders are reflected with angles

Here it is assumed that the width of the reflective fingers on the reference grating S and the second grating B on the flexible mechanical structure are the same. This does not have to be the case if the interfering beams go through different paths and experience losses due to reflection at various interfaces and also incidence angle variations. The diffraction grating geometry can then be adjusted to equalize the reflected order intensities for optimized interference.

In this double grating structure shown for example in the intensity of the odd and even numbered orders change with 180 out of phase with each other when the gap B between the reference grating A and sensing grating B changes. The even numbered diffraction orders are in phase with the zero order reflection considered in the previous embodiments.

One advantage of having other off axis even diffraction orders in phase with the specular reflection is that it enables one to easily use differential techniques. This is achieved by taking the difference of the outputs of two detectors positioned to detect odd and even orders respectively. Hence the common part of the laser intensity noise which is common on both orders can be eliminated.

The sensors described herein can be used with various AFM systems and methods to measure for example the attractive and repulsive forces experienced by the tip to provide information on various surface forces and sample properties. Moreover the force sensors described herein can be used with several AFM methods including nanoindentation force modulation ultrasonic AFM pulsed force mode and dynamic force spectroscopy that have been developed to characterize the visco elastic properties of the material under investigation.

Thus a force sensor for probe microscope for imaging is provided that can offer the unique capability for measuring interaction forces at high speeds with high resolution. In addition to optical interferometer various integrated readout techniques including capacitive piezoelectric or piezo resistive can be used. Similarly the actuators described herein can include a thin film piezoelectric actuator a magnetic actuator or a thermal actuator. Further force sensors with multiple tips where several sensing and actuation functions are implemented in the same device are also envisioned. Still further electrical measurements chemical measurements information storage and nanoscale manipulations can be performed all while simultaneously obtaining topography images of the sample in gas or liquid media. As such the sensors and the methods of imaging described herein open a new area in the field of probe microscopy. This new device can enable high speed imaging and provide images of elastic properties and surface conditions of the sample under investigation.

In one experimental embodiment the micro fabrication of the membrane based probe arrays involves a four mask process. Standard IC materials silicon nitride silicon oxide titanium and gold are used for the mechanical structures whereas a special polymer film Unity 400 is used as a sacrificial layer in order to increase the gap between the membrane and the substrate without inducing excessive stress on the membranes. The fabrication process starts with a 500 550 m thick quartz wafer on top of which 80 nm thick gold diffraction gratings with periods of 3.3 4.0 and 6.0 m are formed using e beam evaporation and a standard lift off process with the first mask. A 20 nm thick titanium layer is used as an adhesion layer between the gold layer and the substrate.

After the definition of diffraction gratings the Unity 400 sacrificial polymer is spun at 500 rpm with a ramping speed of 250 rpm for 5 seconds followed by another spinning at 400 rpm with a ramping speed of 100 rpm for 60 seconds. After the softbake on a hot plate at 105 C. for 8 minutes a flat polymer layer with thickness of 3.2 m is obtained. Unity 400 is a photo definable sacrificial polymer where the exposed area remains cross linked . Thus mask 2 is used to pattern the film at the wavelength of 405 nm with an energy density of 60 mJcm. Post exposure baking takes place in an oven at 125 C. for 15 20 minutes followed by developing the film in the Avatrel developer. Isopropanol is used to rinse the wafer during the development process. The polymer is then cured inside the Lindbergh furnace at 160 C. for 1 hour. After curing the polymer is thinned down to the thickness of 1.9 m by using Oplasma in an RIE chamber.

To define the probe membrane first a 0.1 m thick PECVD dielectric layer is deposited on top of the sacrificial layer at 300 C. The dielectric film consists of SiN SiOwith a ratio of 0.84 1 to minimize the intrinsic stress built up in the layer. Then an 80 nm thick gold layer is sputtered to define the top electrode. To promote the adhesion a 5 nm thick titanium layer is used between the gold layer and the dielectric layer to prevent electrical shorting in case the membrane collapses. Mask 3 is used to pattern the Ti Au layer properly. After metallization another dielectric layer consisting of four sequencing layers of SiN SiO SiNand SiOwith a total thickness of 1.5 m is deposited. The ratio of SiNto SiOis maintained at 0.84 1 as before. The membrane is patterned using RIE etching with mask 4 to form etch holes necessary for the etching of the sacrificial layer.

It is possible to decompose the Unity 400 film by heating up the wafer to a temperature of 440 C. with a furnace that can supply a continuous flow of N2 gas at 5 10 sccm. Since the membrane is a multi layered structure buckling can occur during the decomposition step. Thus the furnace is heated up very slowly to minimize buckling. Once the sacrificial layer is fully decomposed the wafer is then diced into chips and the etch holes are sealed by using epoxy for sealing. Circular probe membranes with various diameters 50 600 m are fabricated.

The polymer sacrificial layer provides a gap of about 2 m. The reflow of the soft polymer layer provides planarization and prevents the translation of the diffraction grating pattern to the membrane as seen from the surface profile. The surface roughness is due to both the definition of the Unity 400 film and the deposition of the dielectric membrane.

For the mechanical characterization the stiffness of each membrane was measured experimentally using Tribolndenter Hysitron Inc. which showed that the stiffness of the fabricated membranes was dominated by residual tensile stress of 30 MPa. Accordingly the stiffness values of the 100 600 m membranes are from 600 to 1500 N. Therefore these membranes are suitable for actuation purposes where the membrane can be considered rigid as compared to the AFM cantilevers k 0.01 0.05 Nm used in the single molecule mechanics experiments.

The above process is specific for silicon nitride and oxide membrane fabrication. Similar structures can be fabricated using different dielectric membrane materials to achieve desired stiffness values. For example for higher force resolution polymer membranes were also fabricated. These membranes are a combination of parylene and metal layers providing lower spring constant values. As a comparison we measured the spring constant of a 200 m diameter membrane as 20 Nmand it is feasible to achieve even softer polymer membranes with a spring constant of 1 N m.

To use these active probes in single molecule mechanics experiments both the electrostatic actuation and optical interferometric detection capabilities should be well characterized. The electrostatic actuator should provide a suitable actuation range with a reasonable speed whereas the optical interferometer should be capable of resolving as small displacements as possible while providing enough dynamic range.

As shown in an experimental set up 3300 was used to characterize the probes. A low noise laser module supplied 5 mW laser light at 635 nm. The incident beam passed through a neutral density filter used to adjust laser power incident on the membranes. The beam was then deflected by an adjustable reflective mirror M and focused on the membrane grating with a focusing lens L . The beam spot on the diffraction grating plane was approximately 30 m. The light intensities in the 0th 1and 1diffraction orders I I and I were captured and collimated by a lens L before they were directed onto a photodiode PD array Hamamatsu S4114 46Q after reflection from a second mirror M . The photocurrent I from the PD array was converted into a readout signal V by transimpedance amplifiers TIA with a gain of 5 kV A. The readout signal was fed into an oscilloscope Tektronix TDS2004 from which DC and modulated DC signals were monitored and a dynamic signal analyzer Stanford Research Systems SR780 Sunnyvale Calif. was used for noise characterization.

For experimental characterization of the actuation performance a 500 m diameter transducer membrane with a diffraction grating period of 3.3 m was used. The membrane was actuated by applying a voltage difference between the electrodes top electrode and diffraction grating while monitoring the intensity of light in the diffraction orders by the PD array. The intensity of the zeroth and first orders changed periodically as the gap height changed due to the applied voltage as expected.

The same experiment was repeated under a white light interferometer to measure the membrane displacement as a function of applied bias voltage. Membrane displacement is proportional to the square of voltage and the experiment showed that for a bias voltage of 50 V the membrane was displaced by about 200 nm. Combining these data sets the optical interference curve V was mapped to the membrane displacement. The interference curve showed a nearly sinusoidal dependence to membrane displacement with a period of 210 nm.

The main noise sources in the overall optical detection system that determine minimum detectable displacement MDD can be listed as the shot noise in the photodetector relative intensity noise RIN of the laser source electronic noise of TIA and the thermo mechanical noise of the membrane. MDD basically equals the displacement that is measured with a unity signal to noise ratio. For this experiment the membrane was biased to its maximum sensitivity point and the noise was read from the PD outputs using a dynamic signal analyzer Stanford Research Systems model SR785 . The differential readout scheme subtracting the first order signal from the zeroth order signal by equating the DC levels helped suppress the RIN. The displacement noise spectral density floor for the current system was below 10 fm Hzfor frequencies as low as 3 Hz with the differential readout scheme. The noise suppression at the low frequency end 3 1000 Hz is important since most bimolecular interaction measurements have significant signal components case can be due to several reasons including the membrane in this range. Overall more than 20 dB noise suppression is curvature the angular spectrum of the incident light beam achieved with differential detection.

For dynamic characterization the transducer was excited with a small amplitude AC voltage VAC on top of the DC. Sensitivity is defined as the change it is expected to be low even in liquid media because of its in Vdivided by the change in membrane displacement.

A 200 m diameter membrane with sealed etch holes was used for dynamic characterization. The resonant frequency of the membrane in air was 420 kHz which dropped to 200 kHz when the membrane was operated in buffer solution. The flat response of the membrane in liquid up to resonant frequency exceeded the requirements of molecular force spectroscopy as the rupture events usually occur in a few tens of milliseconds.

The main noise sources in the overall optical detection system that determine minimum detectable displacement MDD can be listed as the shot noise in the photodetector relative intensity noise RIN of the laser source electronic noise of TIA and the thermo mechanical noise of the membrane. MDD essentially equals the displacement that is measured with a unity signal to noise ratio. For this experiment the membrane was biased to its maximum sensitivity point and the noise was read from the PD outputs using a dynamic signal analyzer Stanford Research Systems model SR785 . The differential readout scheme subtracting the first order signal from the zeroth order signal by equating the DC levels helped suppress the RIN. The displacement noise spectral density floor for the current system was below 10 fm Hzfor frequencies as low as 3 Hz with the differential readout scheme. The noise suppression at the low frequency end 3 1000 Hz is important since most biomolecular interaction measurements have significant signal components in this range. Overall more than 20 dB noise suppression was achieved with differential detection. The shot noise in the photodetector for this intensity level was estimated to be about 2.3 fmHz and that the theoretical limit was approached for frequencies above 1000 Hz. These measurements show nearly an order of magnitude improvement especially at low frequencies as compared to the previously demonstrated interferometric methods.

The estimated thermo mechanical displacement noise of this membrane in air was well below the shot noise and it is expected to be low even in liquid media because of its large spring constant 1000 N m . While the current MDD levels are suitable for actuator feedback parylene membranes with spring constants of 1 10 N mcan be used to implement sensors for force spectroscopy experiments.

As shown in one embodiment of an apparatus for measuring a property which can include any property that can be sensed of a sample that includes a substrate and an actuation device disposed on the substrate . The actuation device includes a flexible surface spaced apart from the substrate and configured so as to allow placement of the sample thereupon. The actuation device also includes a vertical actuator that is configured to cause the flexible surface to achieve a predetermined displacement from the substrate when a corresponding potential is applied thereto

The vertical actuator which in this embodiment is an electrostatic actuator includes a first conductor that is coupled to the flexible surface and a second conductor that is coupled to the substrate. A potential is applied between the first conductor and the second conductor to control the displacement of the flexible surface relative to the substrate .

A sensing probe which can be mounted on a cantilever or other probing structure such as a FIRAT type structure is placed to interact with the sample thereby sensing the property of the sample. A molecule of a predetermined type may be attached to the probe to interact with the sample . In the embodiment shown in the second electrode is also a diffraction grating that interacts with a light beam that reflects off of the bottom surface of the flexible surface . The reflected beam provides feedback regarding the displacement of the flexible surface .

In an embodiment shown in a secondary partially reflective reflector is integrated with the second electrode so that a Fabry Perot cavity is formed between the first electrode and the second electrode . A light beam can then provide displacement information through interferometry.

As shown in a capacitance sensor can be placed between a conductor disposed on the substrate and a conductor coupled to the flexible member to sense displacement as a function of capacitance.

In another embodiment the vertical actuator is a piezoelectric actuator that that includes a piezoelectric member that is configured to achieve a desired displacement as a function of a potential being applied across the piezoelectric member.

As shown in a feedback mechanism that monitors a displacement of the flexible surface . The feedback mechanism can include a source that directs a beam of electromagnetic radiation toward the flexible surface . A first reflective surface is disposed on the flexible surface and reflects a portion of the beam so as to form a reflected beam so that the reflected beam has a property that is indicative of the displacement of the flexible surface . A sensor which may be integrated with the source senses the property of the reflected beam. A controller receives displacement feedback from the sensor and from a force sensing detector which provides information about the position of the probe . The controller controls a driver that applies a potential to the vertical actuator thereby controlling displacement of the flexible surface .

As shown in a plurality of actuation devices may be arranged on a substrate in an array . The array may be driven by an x axis actuator and a y axis actuator which may be part of a translation table . The lateral actuators and move the substrate relative to the sensing probe so that each of the plurality of actuation devices which move the sample along the z axis is accessible to the sensing probe. Each of the actuation devices may be independently addressable by the control circuit so that displacement of each flexible surface of each of the actuation devices is independently controllable.

One embodiment as shown in encloses a probe microscope structure which includes a drift measurement and control system. The embodiment uses precise measurement of the distance between the sample surface and the rigid base of the force sensor and feeding this information in real time to the controller of a large scale actuator to keep the sample force sensor distance at the desired value during measurement. In addition to reducing long term drift in the force measurements this method may reduce the low frequency vibration induced noise in scanning probe measurements and imaging. In summary the scanning probe system has an independent substrate to substrate distance measurement and control system in addition to the force sensing probe. In contrast drift reducing methods which rely on sensors connected to the piezo actuator to close the control loop for the piezo actuator extension the direct measurement of the sample to probe distance is used. The method is applicable to both contact and non contact measurements and should be especially useful when imaging at low speeds.

In many experiments involving force measurements between two molecules which may be immobilized on a sharp tip force sensing artificial or cell membrane a functionalized beads keeping the distance between the interacting objects during a portion of the measurement is critical. One example of that can be given as the distance dependent on rate measurement of molecular interactions between selectin and ligands. In this measurement an AFM cantilever tip carrying one of the molecules is first brought into contact with the rigid surface coated with the other molecule using a piezo actuator. Then the tip is retracted to a certain distance by the piezo actuator e.g. 20 nm and this distance is kept constant for a time which can be in the order of milliseconds to minutes. During this time the force on the cantilever tip is monitored to record random bond formation events. This measurement can be repeated at different distances to vary the effective cross sectional area of molecular interactions.

Similarly in some experimental embodiments when a bond is formed the molecule is extended to a certain distance and the time for bond rupture is measured. A problem arises when the piezo actuator drifts during the measurement due to thermal mechanical changes in the system. This changes the distance between interacting samples which needs to be kept constant to better than 1 nm during measurements. Some measurements rely on either open loop control of the piezo material where a calibrated voltage is applied to the piezo to move a certain distance. Others such as closed loop controlled systems use a strain gage or a capacitive sensor integrated to the piezo actuator system to measure extension or contraction of the actuator. That information is then fed back to the controller to keep the extension of the piezo at a desired value but the distance between the sample surface and a rigid surface of the force sensor is not measured.

One study used a similar idea where the tunneling current was measured and an interferometer was used to suppress the drift and low frequency noise using both sensors on a cantilever. This study demonstrated that by having two independent distance sensors one can eliminate the common noise and have a better topography image.

One embodiment combines a force sensor a FIRAT probe with an interferometric distance sensor on a rigid substrate which can be transparent or can have an opening for optical access. Also a movable grating can be used to optimize the distance sensor sensitivity using a FIRAT like optical readout. This could be useful for any SPM application of FIRAT that employs imaging with slow scan rates.

The sensing system of this present invention can be used in such mediums as air other gasses fluids and even a vacuum. Essentially any medium in which the sample can withstand the environment may be employed with various embodiments of the present invention.

While the invention has been illustrated with respect to one or more implementations alterations and or modifications can be made to the illustrated examples without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular function. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims. The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

