---

title: Localization of clients and servers
abstract: A data transfer method includes receiving terminal server identification data at a host system from a terminal server, querying a database to obtain localized information service data associated with the terminal server identification data, and sending the localized information service data from the host system to the terminal server. A host system providing localized information system data includes a database system, a network interface, and a processor. The database system includes records to associate terminal server identification data with information service data. The interface couples the host system to a communications link over which the host system can exchange data with a terminal server. The processor is coupled to the interface and to the database and is configured to receive terminal server identification data from the data interface, to query the database for localized information service data associated with the terminal server identification data, and to send the localized information service data obtained by the query to the data interface for transmission to the terminal server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07962570&OS=07962570&RS=07962570
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 07962570
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070814
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 582 261 filed on Oct. 10 2000 now allowed and titled LOCALIZATION OF CLIENTS AND SERVERS which was the National Stage of International Application No. PCT US98 27217 filed on Dec. 22 1998 and titled LOCALIZATION OF CLIENTS AND SERVERS which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 068 868 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 070 617 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Data service providers can use centralized host computer systems to provide customized information service data to users at remote client computers. The information service data may be localized. That is the host computer may send data to a user at a remote client computer that is specific to a particular geographic or logical location. For example a host computer can provide localized weather service data to users at client computers throughout a country. To localize the weather data the host system can select different weather data depending on the geographic location of the client computer. Data localization techniques may require that a user identify the location of interest. For example a user may be prompted to enter address phone number zip code or other location identification data needed by a host system to localize data for the particular user.

Localization of information service data provided by an information service host computer system to users at remote client computer systems can be facilitated by automatically determining a geographic or logical location associated with the client computer system. The automatic determination of a location can be achieved using data identifying the terminal server through which a client computer accesses the host system or computer network.

In general in one aspect the invention features a data transfer method. The method includes receiving terminal server identification data at a host system from a terminal server querying a database to obtain localized information service data associated with the terminal server identification data and sending the localized information service data from the host system to the terminal server.

In general in another aspect the invention features a computer host system. The host system includes a database system a network interface and a processor. The database system includes records to associate terminal server identification data with information service data. The interface couples the host system to a communications link over which the host system can exchange data with a terminal server. The processor is coupled to the interface and to the database and is configured to receive terminal server identification data from the data interface to query the database for localized information service data associated with the terminal server identification data and to send the localized information service data obtained by the query to the data interface for transmission to the terminal server.

In general in another aspect the invention features a computer program residing on a computer readable medium. The program includes instructions for causing a computer to receive terminal server identification data from a terminal server to query a database to obtain localized information service data associated with the terminal server identification data and to send the localized information service data from the host system to the terminal server.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. A host system database may include records associating terminal server identification data with location data and or directly associating the identification data with localized information service data. Data connections may be established between a client computer and the terminal server and between the terminal server and a host computer system. The host system may include packet processing circuitry to receive data packets from the terminal server and to extract terminal server identification data from a header region of the data packet. For example the host may extract the terminal server s network address from a data packet and is it as the terminal server identifier. The host may query a database based on the terminal server identification data to determine localized information to be sent to the client computer. Localization of particular data services may be done in response to a request originating at a client computer identifying a specific information service. In such a case the host may obtain localized information service data using a database query based on both the terminal server identification data and the specified information service.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Implementations may provide advantages such as facilitating access to localized data without requiring user location input. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The computer includes a system controller having an integrated RAM memory controller . The system controller is connected to the host bus and provides an interface to random access memory . The system controller also provides host bus to peripheral bus bridging functions. The controller thereby permits signals on the processor host bus to be compatibly exchanged with signals on a primary peripheral bus . The peripheral bus may be for example a Peripheral Component Interconnect PC bus an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus or a Micro Channel bus. Additionally the controller can provide data buffering and data transfer rate matching between the host bus and peripheral bus . The controller thereby allows for example a processor having a 64 bit 66 MHz interface and a 533 Mbytes second data transfer rate to interface to a PC bus having a data path differing in data path bit width clock speed or data transfer rate.

Accessory devices including for example a video display controller and network controller can be coupled to the peripheral bus . The network controller may be a modem an Ethernet networking card a cable modem or other network access device. The system may also include a secondary peripheral bus coupled to the primary peripheral bus through a bridge controller . The secondary peripheral bus can be included in the system to provide additional peripheral device connection points or to connect peripheral devices that are not compatible with the primary peripheral bus . For example in the system the secondary bus may be an ISA bus and the primary bus may be a PC bus. Such a configuration allows ISA devices to be coupled to the ISA bus and PC devices to be coupled to the PC bus . The bridge controller can also include a hard disk drive control interface to couple a hard disk to the peripheral bus . The computer also includes non volatile ROM memory to store basic computer software routines. ROM may include alterable memory such as EEPROM Electronically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory to store configuration data. For example EEPROM memory may be used to store hard disk geometry and configuration data. BIOS routines are included in ROM and provide basic computer initialization systems testing and input output I O services. For example BIOS routines may be executed by the processor to process interrupts that occur when the bridge attempts to transfer data from the ISA bus to the host bus via the bridge peripheral bus and system controller . The BIOS also includes routines that allow an operating system to be booted from the disk or from a server computer using a local area network connection provided by the network adapter . The operating system boot operation can occur after the computer is turned on and power on self test POST routines stored in the BIOS complete execution or when a reset switch is depressed or following a software initiated system reset or a software fault. During the boot process the processor executes BIOS software to access the disk controller or network controller and thereby obtain a high level operating system. The high level operating system is for example the Microsoft Disk Operating System DOS Windows 95 Windows NT a UNIX operating system the Apple MacOS operating system or other operating system.

An operating system may be fully loaded in the RAM memory or may include portions in RAM memory disk drive storage or storage at a network location. For example the Microsoft Windows 95 operating system includes some functionality that remains in memory during the use of Windows 95 and other functionality that is periodically loaded into RAM memory on an as needed basis from for example the disk . An operating system such as Windows 95 or Windows NT provides functionality to control computer peripherals such as devices and and to execute user applications. User applications may be commercially available software programs such as the America Online Version 4.0 client software computer aided drawing and manufacturing software scientific software internet access software word processing software and many other types of software. User applications may access computer system peripherals and through an application programming interface provided by the operating system and or may directly interact with underlying computer system hardware.

A collection of computers can serve as components of a computer network. As shown in a computer network can include a host computer system and client computers . The client computers can communicate with the host to obtain data stored at the host in databases . The client computer may interact with the host computer as if the host was a single entity in the network . However the host may include multiple processing and database sub systems that can be geographically dispersed throughout the network . For example a host may include a tightly coupled cluster of computers at a first location that access database systems at remote locations. Each database system may include additional processing components.

Client computers can communicate with the host system over for example a combination of public switched telephone network dial up connections and packet network interconnections. For example client computers may each include a modem coupled to voiceband telephone line . To communicate with the host the client computers establish a data connection with a local terminal server by dialing a telephone number assigned to the local terminal server . A local terminal server may have both dial up and packet network interfaces allowing the server to receive data from client computers segment the received data into data packet payload segments add overhead information to the payload segments and send the resultant data packets over a link to a packet data network for delivery to the host system . Terminal servers and may also be referred to as a network service provider s point of presence POP .

The overhead information added to the payload segments includes a packet header. A packet header includes a destination address assigned to the host system and a source address assigned to the local terminal server . Other overhead information may include information associating the data packet with a specific client . Similarly the host system may send data to a client by segmenting the data internet packet payload segments and adding overhead information to send the data packet to a client at the terminal server . Client computers may similarly exchange data with the host over communications links to the terminal server .

Data packet formats switching equipment within the packet network and networking protocols used within the network may conform to the transaction control protocol internet protocol TCP IP . In a TCP IP implementation the host packet network terminal servers and are each assigned a unique internet protocol IP network address. TCP IP switching equipment within the network can direct a TCP IP packet to the intended recipient or based on the packet s destination IP address. Implementations may use other networking protocols and packet formats.

The host computer can provide information services to one or more client computers . Information services provided by the host include for example weather reports sports team scores travel shopping services games personal finance local national and international news local traffic conditions and other general and special interest data services. The America Online Version 4.0 service available from America Online Inc. is an example of an information service using a host system to deliver a broad range of information services to multiple client computers. In an America Online implementation client computers can be a personal computer such as an Apple Macintosh or industry standard Intel x86 compatible computer. In the America Online Version 4.0 system client computers execute America Online Version 4.0 client software to access a host system using for example a voiceband modem a cable modem or a TCP IP connection.

Information service data provided by a host can include localized data. Localized information service data can be automatically determined based on the location of the terminal server or other point of presence through which the client accesses the network . Automatic localization based on the location of a terminal server or POP allows information service data to be localized without requiring manual location input by a user.

Referring to in an automated localization system a client connects to a terminal server or other network point of presence. The terminal server may then send information between the client and host through the packet network . Overhead information in the data packets sent from the terminal server to the host include terminal server identification information such as the terminal server s network address step . When a data packet is received at the host system the host uses the received terminal server identification information to determine the location of the terminal server step . The host system may then obtain localized data from a database or by querying the database based on the terminal server s location step . The localized data is subsequently sent from the host system to the client computer step .

A host system may include information service databases that directly associates terminal server ID information with localized information service data and can be queried based on the terminal server ID information. In such a case the determination of a location is implicit in the query for the localized information. Alternatively a host system may first determine a location based on the terminal server ID and then query an information service database based on the determined location. Other query systems may also be used to map terminal server identification data to localized data.

In an internet protocol IP implementation the terminal server ID information may be an internet protocol IP address assigned to the terminal server. The terminal server s IP address may be used to query a host database table that maps IP address information to location information. Table 1 shows an exemplary database table to map IP addresses to locations.

Using the data in Table 1 a host receiving a data packet from a terminal server having the IP address 127.0.0.255 can map the IP address to a location identifier AA12. The host may then query an information service database to obtain localized information service data corresponding to the location AA 12. The localized information service data can then be sent back to a client for display to a user. Wild card entries shown as in Table 1 can allow a broad range of addresses to be mapped to a location identifier. For example the IP address entry 77.4. . in the fifth row of Table 1 will match any received IP address beginning with 77.4 to the location identifier CA86. 

Implementations may use data other than a network addresses to identify a terminal server. For example in a simple network management protocol SNMP implementation a SNMP capable terminal server can access identification data stored in one or more of the terminal server s management information bases MIBs and include that identification data in data packets sent to the host . For example a terminal server may access a MB3 containing vendor model and serial number information for the terminal server and can send the vendor model and serial number information to the hosts to be used as a terminal server identifier for localization purposes.

A host system may map a terminal server ID to a physical location or to a logical location. In a physical location mapping implementation the terminal server ID identifies a geographic location. For example the terminal server ID may be mapped to a region of a country and weather information service data for that region could be provided to a client. In a logical location mapping implementation the terminal server ID identifies a logical location such as a corporation. Thus for example in a logical mapping implementation a terminal server may be dedicated to clients from a particular corporation. All clients within that corporation could then receive localized news information service data discussing that corporation.

The invention may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Apparatus of the invention may be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps of the invention may be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. The invention may advantageously be implemented in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. Each computer program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of nonvolatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM disks. Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

A number of embodiments of the present invention have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example the terminal server is not limited to a modem bank. A terminal server may be a proxy server network gateway network firewall or other network element through which client computers connect to a host system and which allow a location to be associated with a client.

