---

title: Tagging language for broadcast radio
abstract: Apparatus, methods, processors and computer programs products for generating or processing a broadcast radio transmission comprising multimedia content and supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content. The supplemental information comprises a selected data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data, wherein the selected data group further comprises a tag and a corresponding set of text data operable to initiate a predetermined capability of a wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08670393&OS=08670393&RS=08670393
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 08670393
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070420
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 794 040 entitled Tagging Language for RDS RBDS in FM filed Apr. 20 2006 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described aspects relate generally to broadcast radio usage in a receiver. More particularly the described aspects relate to embedded tags in radio broadcasts.

Broadcast radio stations such FM radio stations may use a system known as a Radio Data System RDS or Radio Broadcast Data System RBDS both referred to herein as RDS to transmit supplemental information corresponding to their normal radio programming e.g. music talk news etc. RDS provides a standard protocol for several types of supplemental information transmitted by the broadcast radio stations such as the identity of the particular radio station the type of programming and text information such as the name of an artist and or song.

For example broadcast radio stations transmit their programming and the supplemental information in the RDS format as distinct signals multiplexed onto a single carrier. Radio receivers having RDS decoders such as those included with some wireless communications devices or those in a vehicle permit a user to listen to the transmitted programming and view the corresponding supplemental information on a display.

Some new specifications and services have been developed that build on or work in conjunction with radio programming comprising RDS. For example some specifications provide additional messages that can control portions of the supplemental information such as the display of the radio text information. In another example some services have been developed to provide content to the receiver using a data connection where the content is synchronized with the radio programming via the RDS data.

The above noted solutions attempt to improve the functionality of radio programming however in the process they can consume scarce resources. For example the specifications that add new messages to RDS consume the limited bandwidth and in some cases the limited number of characters available for supplemental information in the RDS format. Further the services that require a streaming data connection increase the usage cost for the data service and increase the power usage. Thus improved solutions are desired to increase the functionality of radio programming.

Apparatus methods processors and computer programs products provide for user interactivity and or an enhanced user experience with respect to a broadcast radio transmission of multimedia content.

In one aspect a method of processing radio signals on a wireless device comprises receiving a broadcast radio transmission comprising multimedia content and supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content. The supplemental information comprises a first data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data wherein the first data group further comprises a first tag and a corresponding first set of text data. The method also includes detecting the first tag and the first set of text data and enabling a predetermined capability of the wireless device based on the detected first tag and the detected first set of text data. In a related aspect at least one processor is configured to processing radio signals on a wireless device wherein the at least one processor comprises one or more modules for performing the above stated actions. In another related aspect a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium comprising one or more sets of codes for performing the above stated actions.

In a further aspect an apparatus comprises means for receiving a broadcast radio transmission comprising multimedia content and supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content. The supplemental information comprises a first data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data wherein the first data group further comprises a first tag and a corresponding first set of text data. Also the apparatus comprises means for detecting the first tag and the first set of text data and means for enabling a predetermined capability of the wireless device based on the detected first tag and the detected first set of text data.

In yet another aspect a wireless device comprises a memory a processor a receiver and a receiver module. The memory further comprises a radio enhancer module where the processor is in communication with the memory and is operable to execute the radio enhancer module. Further the receiver is in communication with the processor wherein the receiver is operable to receive a broadcast radio transmission comprising multimedia content and supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content. The supplemental information comprises a first data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data wherein the first data group further comprises a first tag and a corresponding first set of text data. Additionally the receiver module is associated with the receiver and the receiver module comprises circuitry operable to detect the first tag and the first set of text data. Additionally the processor is operable to execute the radio enhancer module to monitor the receiver module wherein the radio enhancer module is operable responsive to detection of the first tag and first set of text data to enable a predetermined capability of the wireless device based on the first tag and the first set of text data.

In still another aspect a method of generating radio signals for broadcast comprises obtaining multimedia content and obtaining supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content. The supplemental information comprising a first data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data wherein the first data group further comprises a first tag and a corresponding first set of text data. The method further includes generating a broadcast radio transmission comprising the multimedia content and the supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content wherein the first tag and the first set of text data are operable to enable a predetermined capability of a wireless device in receipt of the broadcast radio transmission and responsive to a detection of the first tag and the first set of text data by the wireless device. In a related aspect at least one processor is configured to processing radio signals on a wireless device wherein the at least one processor comprises one or more modules for performing the above stated actions. In another related aspect a computer program product comprises a computer readable medium comprising one or more sets of codes for performing the above stated actions.

In yet another aspect an apparatus comprises means for obtaining multimedia content and means for obtaining supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content. The supplemental information comprises a first data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data wherein the first data group further comprises a first tag and a corresponding first set of text data. Additionally the apparatus includes means for generating a broadcast radio transmission comprising the multimedia content and the supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content wherein the first tag and the first set of text data are operable to enable a predetermined capability of a wireless device in receipt of the broadcast radio transmission and responsive to a detection of the first tag and the first set of text data by the wireless device.

In a further aspect a radio broadcaster comprises a memory comprising multimedia content and supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content wherein the supplemental information comprises a first data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data wherein the first data group further comprises a first tag and a corresponding first set of text data. The radio broadcaster also includes a processor in communication with the memory and a broadcast generator in communication with the processor. The broadcast generator is operable to generate a broadcast radio transmission comprising the multimedia content and the supplemental information wherein the first tag and the first set of text data are operable to enable a predetermined capability of a wireless device in receipt of the broadcast radio transmission and responsive to a detection of the first tag and the first set of text data by the wireless device.

The described aspects relate generally to enabling predetermined functionality on a wireless communication device based on a tag and corresponding tag related data communicated to the wireless communication device in a broadcast radio transmission.

Referring to in one aspect an enhanced broadcast radio system includes a wireless communication device operable to receive a broadcast radio transmission from a broadcast radio network such as a terrestrial based station and or a satellite based station . Broadcast radio transmission includes multimedia content such as music or other audio data and supplemental information corresponding to and or describing the respective multimedia content . In particular supplemental information may comprise a tag and corresponding data or tag related data such as a set of one or more data. For example tag may comprise a known identifier by which corresponding data may be classified and or tag may comprise a known trigger for initiating some predetermined action where the action may utilize corresponding data .

Further wireless communication device includes a receiver operable to detect and separate tag and corresponding data from multimedia content and forward the respective components for rendering on a user interface such as a speaker and a display respectively.

Additionally wireless communication device includes a radio enhancer module in communication with receiver . Radio enhancer module is operable to enable a predetermined capability of wireless communication device based on receiving or detecting tag and corresponding data . In particular predetermined capability includes functionality relating to promoting user interactivity or to enhancing the user experience with respect to broadcast radio transmission .

For example during a radio program represented by broadcast radio transmission tag and data may trigger radio enhancer module to trigger contextual shopping or e commerce e.g. generating graphics text and interactive hot keys to enable the user to download ring tones songs album graphics videos purchase accessories etc associated with multimedia content . In another example tag and data may initiate interactive online polls and quizzes or provide interactive advertisements allowing the user to request more information of a product or service of interest. In yet other example tag and data may initiate or invoke other applications resident on wireless device such as a usage history collection and reporting application and or a radio station or tuning recommendation application.

In broadcast radio network may include any publicly or privately owned broadcast radio station that provide users with commercial radio programming such as a frequency modulation FM and or amplitude modulation AM radio station. For example the broadcast radio transmission broadcast by terrestrial based radio station includes modulated radio carrier signals that carry information representative of multimedia content such as music. Further transmission may additionally include a subcarrier signal that carries supplement information corresponding to the main carrier signal. For example in an RDS system subcarrier signal is broadcast at 57 kHz and allows 1187.5 bits second data rate. As such terrestrial based radio station includes equipment necessary to transmit supplemental information along with multimedia content . In turn suitably equipped receivers such as receiver are operable to receive and decode multimedia content and supplemental information allowing this information to be rendered to the user as well as allowing for the enhanced functionality described herein. For example to receive the radio signal transmissions broadcast from terrestrial based radio station receiver may operate in the FM radio band or the AM radio band or both. It should be noted that the range of the FM and AM radio bands vary by country and or region and receiver may be adjusted to operate with respect to a given band in a given country and or region.

Further satellite based station may include one or more satellites in orbit around the earth that transmit radio programming such as music and or talk radio to users of wireless communications device . Satellite radio providers such SIRIUS and XM RADIO provide users with commercial satellite radio programming. In the event that wireless communications device receives broadcast radio transmission via satellite signals receiver is operable to receive signals in the gigahertz GHz range.

Further in wireless communications device is additionally operable to communicate with remote devices over a wireless communications network that includes a base station subsystem BSS communicatively connected to an antenna . Although not illustrated network may also include other communication network components such as a base station controller a mobile switching center a position determination entity a group communications server etc. operable to facilitate communications and services provided to wireless communications device . Network may be any private or public wireless communications network operating according to any known standard including Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cdmaOne cdma2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Wideband CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and TIA EIA 136.

More specifically referring to although wireless communication device is illustrated as a cellular telephone it should be understood that wireless communication device may include any computerized device capable of receiving broadcast signals. Thus system may include one or more wireless communication devices which may include a cellular telephone a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a satellite telephone a palm computer a Personal Communication Services PCS device a portable gaming or music device etc.

Referring to as noted above wireless communication device has user interface including at least one input device for generating inputs into communication device and at least on output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example an input device may include a mechanism such as a key keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects an input device provides for user input to interact with an application or program or module such radio enhancer module . Further for example an output device may include audio speaker display a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects display may be operable to present all or portions of supplemental information which may include information such as the station identification the title of a song and the artist performing the song currently being broadcast by the radio station. Further in the illustrated aspects display may present content based on the execution of radio enhancer module and or based on the initiation of predetermined capabilities as discussed herein.

Further wireless communications device may include a computer platform that comprises a processor a memory an audio processing module a communications interface connected to an antenna and receiver having an antenna .

Processor controls the operation of wireless communications device according to applications or programs or modules stored in memory . The control functions may be implemented for example in a single microprocessor or in multiple microprocessors. Suitable microprocessors may include general purpose and special purpose microprocessors as well as digital signal processors. Further for example processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other data processing device such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident applications and or programs and or modules such as radio enhancer module stored in memory of the wireless communications device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless communication device . One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications or programs or modules on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may interface with or include audio processing module which provides output signals to speaker and receives inputs from microphone . As described in more detail below processor may be configured to execute radio enhancer module and initiate predetermined wireless device capabilities based on one or more tags and corresponding data within supplemental information .

Memory represents all of the memory associated with wireless communications device and may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM erasable ROM EPROM electronically erasable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk. For example computer program instructions and data utilized in the operation of wireless communications device may be stored in non volatile memory such as EPROM EEPROM and or flash memory. Additionally memory may be implemented as discrete devices stacked devices or may be integrated with processor . Memory may also include areas partitioned into and designated for use as temporary memory buffers which may store data for rendering to user interface and or for use by radio enhancer module and or predetermined capabilities . Further memory stores radio enhancer module predetermined capability and other applications which are used by processor in operating wireless communication device . For example other applications may comprise one or any combination of a voice call application a data call application a messaging application a group call application a multimedia application a personal information manager a usage history collection and reporting application etc.

Additionally communications interface enables transmission and receipt of communication messages with wireless communication network . For example in one aspect communications interface is embodied as a long range transceiver coupled to antenna for transmitting and receiving cellular signals to and from one or more base stations in a wireless communications network. The transceiver is a fully functional cellular radio transceiver and operates according to any known standard including CDMA cdmaOne cdma2000 UMTS Wideband CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and TIA EIA 136.

Receiver is coupled to antenna and receives and demodulates signals broadcast by a radio station such as an FM or AM or satellite radio station for output to the user over speaker . Receiver is operable broadcast radio transmissions comprising RDS system data. As such receiver may include an RDS module to decode supplemental information transmitted by the broadcast radio station. To receive broadcast radio transmission receiver is tuned to the particular transmit frequency assigned to the broadcast radio station of interest.

RDS module may comprise any circuitry operable to decode received RDS information and in particular supplemental information . For more information on RDS or RBDS in general or on the circuitry messaging encoding decoding please refer to International Electrotechnical Commission IEC standard IEC 62106 ed. 1 United States RDBS Standard Apr. 9 1998 produced by the RBDS Subcommittee of the National Radio Systems Committee NRSC and the European Broadcasting Union EBU CENELEC Standard EN50067 1998 Specification of the Radio Data System each of which are incorporated herein by reference. It should be noted that these standards may apply to either FM or AM broadcasts.

Referring to and as noted above broadcast radio transmission received from broadcast radio station or is parsed by receiver into multimedia content and supplemental information . Receiver sends multimedia content to audio processing module which is operable to render the signal as audible sound over speaker . RDS module also receives broadcast radio transmission in order to determine if it contains any RDS data. In particular RDS module is operable to decode a 57 kHz subcarrier signal specified by the RDS standards and extract any supplemental information carried thereon.

Supplemental information may include any RDS data for example including any one or any combination of alternate frequency AF data clock date and time CT data enhanced other networks EON data program identification PI data program item number PIN data extended country code ECC data program service PS data scrolling program service SPS data program type PTY data program type name PTYN data regional links REG data radio text RT data travel announcements TA data travel program TP data traffic message channel TMC data music speech switch M S data transparent data channel TDC data radio paging RP data in house application IH data emergency warning system EWS data and data from free format groups.

Once decoded processor may execute RDS module to send some of supplemental information such as the radio text data to display for viewing by the user. The decoded supplemental information may also be used by processor in executing radio enhancer module and initiating predetermined capabilities as described herein.

Generally according to the RDS specifications the RDS data is formatted in groups and there are 16 groups divided into A and B types. These groups contain different data such as the different types of supplemental information listed above e.g. PI PS PTY PTYN RT. An RDS encoder at broadcast radio station and or may broadcast various combinations of the groups in a group sequence.

A group is formatted as 104 bits and each group is divided into 4 blocks. A block contains 26 bits and is divided into an Information Word and a Check Word Offset Word. The Information Word contains 16 bits and carries data while the Check Word Offset Word contains 10 bits and is for error correction and synchronization.

Additionally for each group block contains the PI code of the radio station block contains a Group Type Code that identifies the present transmitted group a Version Flag that identifies the group as Type A or Type B a TP flag the PTY and 5 individual bits and blocks and contain group specific data. It should be noted that in B groups the PI code is repeated in block for better synchronization.

Referring to in one aspect at least one tag and corresponding data may be represented in a text data portion of a group A message and or a group B message according to the RDS format. Although formatted differently there is no material difference between group A message and group B message with respect to the operation of the present aspects. For example text data portion can include any textual data such as predetermined codes identifiable as tags text arranged relative to tag so as to be identifiable as corresponding text data and additional text data not related to tag . Additionally text data may comprise any text data adjacent to tag or all text data following tag until another tag is reached. Further for example messages and may comprise group 2 radio text RT messages group 5 transparent data channel TDC messages and group 6 in house application IH messages.

In yet other aspects at least one tag and corresponding data may be represented in text data portion of a group A message and or a group B message which may trigger radio enhancer module to use other supplemental data contained within the respective message such as radio text RT data TDC data IH data program information code PI data and program type PTY data to enable predetermined capability .

In yet other aspects at least one tag and corresponding data may be represented in data portion of one message which may trigger radio enhancer module to collect or parse data from a respective data portion of a different message. For example data portion of RT and or TDC and or IH message may trigger radio enhancer module to parse or collect data from a respective data portion of a different message such as an RT or TDC or IH message a group 4A clock date and time CT message a group 1A or 1B message including a program item number PIN a group 0A or 0B message including a program service name PS or a scrolling program service name SPS a group 0A 0B and 15B message including music speech switch M S and a group 10A message including a program type name PTYN .

In still another aspect referring to a group 3A 10A 11A 12A and 13A message can be defined as including up to three free form FF portions which may include one or more of any combination of tags and corresponding text data additional text data all comprising supplemental data .

In further aspects at least one tag and corresponding data may be represented in data portion or data portion which may trigger radio enhancer module to collect or parse data from memory or from processor .

Referring back to in a radio text message text data portion contains bits that carry the text data including any alphabetic character any numeric character any symbol etc. which are typically rendered to display . For example text data portion may comprise the radio station name the radio station slogan the song name and the artist name.

During a given radio program or song broadcast radio stations may transmit RT messages and or several times in succession to provide redundancy to insure proper reception of all textual characters in the message. Additionally the group sequence of a combination of groups as noted above may be transmitted several times to provide redundancy.

The two radio text portions in group 2A message comprise four characters and can be used to send messages of up to 64 characters in length. In contrast the single radio text portion in group 2B message includes only two characters and can be used to send messages of up to 32 characters in length. As such tag may comprise a compact or short predetermined code for example a code of 10 characters or less to maximize the number of remaining characters for use as corresponding data and or for additional tags and corresponding text and or for additional text for display.

Examples of tag and corresponding data include but are not limited to the following RJ followed by data indicating the name of the radio jockey Program followed by data indicating the name of the radio program Singer or Singers or Artist followed by data indicating the name of the artist Lyrics followed by data indicating the lyrics of the respective song Music followed by data indicating the source of the music Album or CD indicating the album or CD on which the song is recorded Film followed by data indicating the name of the corresponding film Stars followed by data indicating the names of the stars associated with the content Q followed by data representing a query or poll Advt or Ad followed by data representing an advertisement triggers display of the advertisement until the first occurrence of another tag Call followed by data representing a call back number triggers automatic invocation of a call back to the call back number in response to the user activating a hot key SMS followed by data representing a contest identifier a call back number and a time limit triggers automatic invocation of a messaging application an automatic composing and transmission of a message including the aforementioned data and a user response based on an input of a selection by the user within the time limit may further include the device identifier the date the time the station identification the city identifier the requesting application and the program name http followed by a universal resource locator URL triggers the invocation of a packet data session and points to the URL in response to a user selection of a generated hot key Pic followed by data representing a name or identifier of a picture triggers the display of a local picture file from memory and Collect followed parameters dictating the collection storage and reporting out including timing and destination address of predetermined data or data logs which may be in the existing message in another message or stored within processor and or memory of wireless communication device.

RDS module is operable to distinguish RDS messages by analyzing the bits corresponding to group type code and or version flag and thus is able to properly decode RDS messages regardless of the group type or version that is transmitted. This may allow RDS module to detect when a new radio program such as a new song is being transmitted. In other aspects RDS module may monitor M S switch data in groups 0A 0B and 15B to determine a when a radio program begins or ends for example to detect speech indicating a commercial.

Referring back to predetermined capabilities enabled by radio enhancer module based on tag and corresponding data and or other supplemental data may include but is not limited to one or any combination of radio enhancer module operating to replace corresponding text with visual content such as a graphic or video or animation that may or may not be related to and or synchronized with the corresponding multimedia content to enhance the user experience radio enhancer module operating to generate predetermined prompts or compose interactive screens or messages radio enhancer module operating to generate a hot key and enable responsive to user input actions such as a voice call a data or short message service call radio enhancer module operating to trigger contextual e commerce relating to multimedia content by invoking programs or applications or invoking data calls to a given universal resource location determined from corresponding data .

Referring to a radio broadcaster such a terrestrial based radio station and satellite based radio station may comprise any hardware software firmware modules data and instructions for obtaining multimedia content and supplemental information and generating broadcast radio transmission . For example in one aspect referring to radio station for simplicity although equally application to radio station the radio broadcaster may comprise a memory operable to store multimedia content and supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content . For example multimedia content and supplemental information may be obtained from a content provider and or may be generated or manually input at the radio broadcaster. Further for example according to the RDS standard supplemental information may comprise a data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data. Additionally the first data group may further comprise a tag and a corresponding set of text data . Additionally radio broadcaster may include a processor in communication with memory and a broadcast generator in communication with and executable by processor . Broadcast generator is operable to generate broadcast radio transmission comprising multimedia content and supplemental information . In this case tag and the corresponding set of text data included in broadcast radio transmission are operable to enable predetermined capability of wireless device upon receipt of broadcast radio transmission and responsive to a detection of tag and text data by the wireless device as described herein. Additional aspects of broadcast radio transmission multimedia content and supplemental information are further described herein.

Referring to in one aspect a method by which processor operates receiver and radio enhancer module to process radio signals on wireless communication device includes receiving a broadcast radio transmission comprising multimedia content and supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content Block . In this case the multimedia content comprises the radio programming such as a song and the supplemental information comprises the RDS data. As such the supplemental information includes a first data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data such as the different RDS groups discussed above. Further in this case the first data group includes a first tag such as tag and a corresponding first set of text data such as tag related or corresponding data .

In a preferred aspect receiving broadcast radio transmission comprises receiving an RDS formatted signal with supplemental information in particular tag and corresponding data in a radio text portion of a radio text group message. This provides a convenient and efficient mechanism within an existing standard to provide a configurable tag and configurable corresponding data . Further the radio text group message has a relatively large amount of available text characters when compared to the other RDS format group messages thereby providing flexibility and capacity for relatively complex tagging language formats. Additionally the radio text group message is typically sent with every radio program thereby increasing the efficiency of the present system by not increasing the required throughput in a relatively limited throughput subcarrier signal compared to other wireless communication device data services as would be the case if additional group messages were required.

In other aspects receiving broadcast radio transmission may include receiving an RDS formatted signal with supplemental information in the free text portions of at least one of a transparent data channel group message an in house application group message and a free form group message.

In yet other aspects receiving broadcast radio transmission may include receiving a group sequence of RDS formatted messages where supplemental information may be contained in more than one group message and where tag in one group message may relate to or reference data in one or more other group messages.

The method further includes detecting the first tag and the first set of text data Block . For example processor executes receiver to receive and analyze broadcast radio transmission . If broadcast radio transmission comprises a modulated signal carrying multimedia content and supplemental data receiver operates RDS module to interpret the RDS messages and detect and parse out supplemental data . In some aspects processor directs receiver to send the portion of broadcast radio transmission corresponding to multimedia content to speaker while sending the portion corresponding to at least part of supplemental information to display both rendered for presentation to the user of wireless communication device . For example in a typical case multimedia content may comprise a radio program such as a song while the displayed portion of supplemental information comprises a radio text portion of an RDS message e.g. characters such as radio station name song title and artist name which can be scrolled across a display or statically displayed.

Additionally the method includes enabling a predetermined capability of the wireless device based on the detected first tag and the detected first set of text data Block . For example processor executes radio enhancer module to monitor the output of receiver and in particular RDS module to audio processor module in order to detect the presence of supplemental information . Radio enhancer module may include any logic operable to map each unique tag to a corresponding predetermined capability such as a functionality executable by wireless communication device to provide interactivity between the user and the broadcast radio transmission and or to provide an enhanced user experience. For example tag may cause radio enhancer module to invoke predetermined capability operable to display a text data portion of an RDS message in a predetermined format such as by rendering text data on display in a predetermined format corresponding to tag . In other aspects tag may cause radio enhancer module to invoke predetermined capability operable to replace predetermined codes statements or words with graphics pictures animations or other text. In other words replacing data comprises rendering predetermined content on a display on the wireless communication device wherein the predetermined content corresponds to tag and corresponding text data wherein the predetermined content may be stored in memory or acquired by invoking a data service application on wireless communication device . Further for example tag may cause radio enhancer module to invoke predetermined capability operable to collect inputs from users conveniently invoke other applications or automatically compose messages to be sent responsive to user input.

In yet another example such as in an example of collecting usage history information relating to radio programming enabling the predetermined capability further comprises storing at least one of the program service name the program identification code the program type code the radio text message and the clock time in a memory of the wireless device.

In a further example relating to collecting usage history information corresponding to other applications on the wireless communication device enabling the predetermined capability further comprises controlling collection or reporting of usage of applications executed or executing on the wireless device.

In still another case for example relating to referring radio programming to another party receiving the broadcast radio transmission further comprises receiving a radio signal at a radio frequency corresponding to a respective radio station and wherein enabling the predetermined capability further comprises automatically composing in a messaging application a tuning recommendation message to transmit to a selected address in response to a user input wherein the tuning recommendation message comprises an indicator of the radio frequency of the radio station.

In this case for example the first set of text data comprises a representation of the radio frequency and wherein automatically composing further comprises parsing the representation of the radio frequency from the first set of text data and generating the indicator of the radio frequency based on the parsing and adding the indicator to the tuning recommendation message.

Alternatively in the tuning recommendation case receiving the broadcast signal may further comprises receiving supplemental information comprising at least one of the first data group further comprising at least one of a representation of a content name and a representation of an artist name corresponding to the multimedia content and a second data group from the plurality of predetermined data groups. In this case the second data group comprises a second set of text data different from the first set of text data wherein the second set of text data comprises at least one of the representation of the content name and the representation of the artist name. Further in this case automatically composing further comprises parsing at least one of the representation of the content name and the representation of the artist name from the first set of text data from at least one of the first data group and the second data group and adding the at least one of the representation of the content name and the representation of the artist name to the tuning recommendation message.

In yet another use case the method may be utilized to trigger an action during a break in the normal radio programming such as during a commercial or during talk that occurs between songs. In this case receiving the broadcast radio transmission further comprises receiving the multimedia content having a sequence of primary content and secondary content. In this instance the primary content represents a song while secondary content represents talk or an advertisement. Further in this case receiving the broadcast radio transmission further comprises receiving the supplemental information comprising at least one of the first data group and a second data group different from the first data group wherein one of the first data group and the second data group comprises a content identifier corresponding to the primary content or the secondary content. and wherein enabling the predetermined capability further comprises initiating the predetermined capability based on detecting the content identifier corresponding to the secondary content or detecting an absence of the content identifier corresponding to the primary content.

In a similar use case where action occurs during a break in normal programming the chance in radio programming may be indicated by music speech switch M S or group type GT code or version flag VF .

Additionally in a case where another application is invoked by tag and data enabling the predetermined capability of wireless communication device further comprises at least one of invoking a content download application invoking a data call application invoking a voice call application invoking a web browsing application automatically composing at least a portion of a response to a query rendering content stored in a memory of the wireless device on an output device on the wireless device and changing a functionality of the wireless device.

Referring to one aspect of a method of generating radio signals for broadcast comprises obtaining multimedia content Block and obtaining supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content Block .

For example obtaining the multimedia content may include obtaining content such as music videos talk shows news reports etc. which may be real time content and or non real time content.

For example obtaining the supplemental information may include obtaining supplemental information comprising a first data group from a plurality of predetermined data groups each comprising different data wherein the first data group further comprises a first tag and a corresponding first set of text data . In this case the supplemental information may comprise RDS data in an RDS group message format as is discussed above in detail.

In some aspects the method includes obtaining the supplemental information in a radio data system format or a radio broadcast data system format wherein the first data group comprises at least one of a radio text message group a transparent data channel message group an in house applications message group and a free form message group.

In other aspects the method includes obtaining the first data group in the form of a message in a radio data system format or a radio broadcast data system format wherein the message comprises at least one of a group 2A message a group 2B message a group 3A message a group 5A message a group 5B message a group 6A message a group 6B message a group 10A message a group 11A message a group 12A message and a group 13A message.

The method further comprises generating a broadcast radio transmission comprising the multimedia content and the supplemental information corresponding to the multimedia content Block . For example broadcasting of the first tag and the first set of text data in the supplemental information are operable to enable a predetermined capability of a wireless device in receipt of the broadcast radio transmission and responsive to a detection of the first tag and the first set of text data by the wireless device . These aspects are discussed in detail above with respect to wireless device .

In some aspects the method includes generating the broadcast radio transmission to enable controlling collection or reporting of wireless device usage data.

In other aspects the method includes obtaining the supplemental information having a second data group from the plurality of predetermined data groups wherein the second data group further comprises a second set of text data different from the first set of text data and the method includes generating the broadcast radio transmission to enable storing the second set of text data in a memory of the wireless device.

In further aspects the method includes generating the broadcast radio transmission as a radio signal at a radio frequency corresponding to a radio station and the method includes generating the broadcast radio transmission to enable automatically composing in a messaging application resident on the wireless device a tuning recommendation message to transmit to a selected address in response to a user input received by the wireless device wherein the tuning recommendation message comprises an indicator of the radio frequency of the radio station.

In yet other aspects the method includes generating the multimedia content in a sequence of primary content and secondary content wherein obtaining the supplemental information further comprises obtaining at least one of the first data group and a second data group different from the first data group wherein one of the first data group and the second data group comprises a content identifier corresponding to the primary content or the secondary content and wherein generating the broadcast radio transmission is further operable to initiate the predetermined capability based on the wireless device detecting the content identifier corresponding to the secondary content or detecting an absence of the content identifier corresponding to the primary content.

In still further aspects the method may include generating the broadcast radio transmission as being further operable to enable at the wireless device at least one of invoking a content download application invoking a data call application invoking a voice call application invoking a web browsing application automatically composing at least a portion of a response to a query rendering content stored in a memory of the wireless device on an output device on the wireless device and changing a functionality of the wireless device.

Thus the present aspects provide a tagging language for use in a broadcast radio system that efficiently utilizes an existing standard provides a compact data size when compared to alternatives that require extra messages and extra streaming channels is configurable in free text portions of the standard group messages and includes configurable capabilities programmable onto the wireless communication device.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

