---

title: Authoring interface which distributes composited elements about the display
abstract: Techniques are described for providing a display of visual elements representing various media elements on a composite media presentation, wherein the display may be altered such that the visual elements transition from an overlapping arrangement to an arrangement where the overlap is minimized or eliminated. Once in the non-overlapping arrangement, a particular element may be selected or manipulated, for example applying an effect to the underlying media element, and the display returns to the original overlapping arrangement of visual elements, in some embodiments ending with the selected visual element at the top of the overlapping arrangement where before the visual elements may have been partially or completely obstructed from view.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08091039&OS=08091039&RS=08091039
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08091039
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070413
---
This application is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 10 465 855 entitled Computer Interface Having a Virtual Single Layer Mode for Viewing Overlapping Objects filed Jun. 20 2003 and U.S. application Ser. No. 10 689 687 entitled Computer Interface Having a Virtual Single Layer Mode for Viewing Overlapping Objects filed Oct. 22 2003 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The present invention relates to visual elements in a display and more specifically to an approach for an authoring interface wherein composite visual elements are distributed about a display and manipulated.

The increased processing power and graphical capabilities of modern computer systems have ushered in a new age of video production. Current video production software allows video professionals to create incredibly complex presentations such as animations encompassing multiple layers of elements such as titles video backgrounds and other elements. Each layer may also have additional elements associated with it such as music sound effects different animations for individual elements and actions associated with elements such as defining a response to an element being activated by a user for example having a graphic element animate in response to a mouse click.

All of these layers and elements combine to form a finished visual product however during authoring of the finished product each layer and element needs to be manipulated in order to achieve the desired result. For example a video title animation for a DVD may be comprised of several discrete portions arrayed along a timeline and each portion may be comprised of numerous elements. For example at one point in a timeline of the animation the displayed frame may be made up of a background picture multiple text titles and a video. Later in the timeline a displayed frame may be made up of an entirely different set of images text and videos. An entire project may be made up of tens hundreds or even thousands of objects to manage such as layers text filters video animations and effects.

A current approach to managing these objects is to display each object in a linear list that is navigated with scroll bars and similar user interface elements. A user would click on a particular element in the list to activate that element for editing or other manipulations. A user may also click on an element in the display and the corresponding entry in the list would be selected.

A drawback to the current approach is that in a project comprising hundreds of elements navigation of a list becomes tedious and confusing. An element that the user wishes to select in the list may not even be displayed on the screen for example an element may not appear in the presentation until the thirty second mark but the currently displayed frame is at the ten minute mark. If a user selects the desired element from the list then there is no corresponding element on the display.

Another current approach to managing objects is the concept of layers which are a hierarchical structure that allows for ordering and placement of various objects on different levels of the display in order to better organize related and discrete objects. A current approach to the management of layers is to organize them in a similar linear list and upon selection of a particular layer in the list changing the display to only display that particular layer. Multiple layers may be selected for display and layers may be merged into each other.

A drawback to the current approach of managing layers and their respective elements is that a linear list of layers is not conducive to efficient management and manipulation of the layers and their respective elements. A user may find herself selecting and deselecting various layers regularly in order to manipulate certain elements and certain layers may have been merged in a manner that does not allow for individual manipulation of particular elements so the user must first un merge the layers to make changes then re merge the layers in order to generate a desired display.

Another drawback to current approaches of distributing elements on a display is that a user may want to see all elements comprising a project however the project may consist of numerous layers and objects in those layers and the layers and objects may become active at different points along the timeline of the project. Currently there is no way to alternate viewing the currently displayed frame and its elements and all elements existing in all frames.

Another drawback to current approaches is that layers are displayed in a flat two dimensional manner. As previously discussed the management of layers is generally provided by organizing the layers in a linear list and layers are displayed upon selection of the element in the list corresponding to the layer. Current approaches to displaying layers and managing layers do not efficiently and accurately portray the relationship of layers to one another. Layers in a project are arranged on top of one another in a three dimensional relationship yet the management of the layers only displays the layers two dimensionally which makes selection and management of the layers difficult and tedious.

Therefore an approach that allows for an authoring interface that distributes composited visual elements for display and manipulation is desirable. The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Techniques are described for providing a display of visual elements representing various media elements on a composite media presentation wherein the display may be altered such that the visual elements transition from an overlapping arrangement to an arrangement where the overlap is minimized or eliminated. Once in the non overlapping arrangement a particular element may be selected or manipulated for example applying an effect to the underlying media element and the display returns to the original overlapping arrangement of visual elements in some embodiments ending with the selected visual element at the top of the overlapping arrangement where before the visual elements may have been partially or completely obstructed from view.

According to an embodiment the composite media presentation composed of media elements is initially represented by a first arrangement of a first set of visual elements wherein each visual element in the first set of visual elements corresponds to one or more of the media elements. Then automatically or in response to input the display of the first arrangement of the first set of visual elements is transitioned in a visually perceptible manner to a second arrangement of a second set of visual elements from the plurality of visual elements. This second arrangement may comprise a non overlapping display of the visual elements or a display where the degree of overlap is reduced. The second set may be identical to the first set or may include additional elements for example every visual element associated with every media element in the composite media presentation. In the second arrangement a user may select one or more of the displayed visual elements and in response a third arrangement of a third set of visual elements is displayed. The third set may be identical to the first set and the selected visual elements appear in a non overlapping manner for example on top of a stack of overlapping visual elements.

According to an embodiment a current position of a current time indicator on a timeline is determined. The timeline may be associated with the composite media presentation. Based on the current position of the time indicator a subset of the media elements of the composite media presentation is identified wherein the subset comprises those media elements that would be displayed in the composite media presentation during the time that is indicated by the current time indicator. A first arrangement of the visual elements corresponding to the subset of media elements is displayed wherein the visual elements have a stacking order and overlap on the display. In response to user input a second arrangement of the visual elements is displayed in which the degree of overlap of the visual elements is reduced relative to the first arrangement for example zero. While the visual elements are in the second arrangement user input is received that selects a particular visual element and in response to the selection of the particular visual element a third overlapping arrangement of the set of visual elements is displayed wherein the particular visual element is less obstructed than in the first arrangement.

According to an embodiment a composite media presentation is initially represented by a first arrangement of a first set of visual elements wherein each visual element in the first set of visual elements corresponds to a media element of a plurality of media elements that together compose the composite media presentation. In this arrangement at least one visual element at least partially overlaps another visual element. User input is received that selects an effect that can only be applied to a subset of the plurality of media elements and in response to the user input a second arrangement of a second set of the visual elements is displayed wherein the visual elements in the arrangement are only visual elements that correspond to the subset of media elements to which the selected effect may be applied.

According to an embodiment a composite media presentation is initially represented by a first arrangement of a first set of visual elements wherein each visual element in the first set of visual elements corresponds to a media element of a plurality of media elements that together compose the composite media presentation. In this arrangement at least one visual element at least partially overlaps another visual element. User input is received that causes a subset of the visual elements to be automatically selected and arranged on the display wherein the automatic selection of the subset of visual elements is based upon which media elements represented by the subset of visual elements are contextually related to an application of the user input. The display is transitioned between the first and second arrangements which in an embodiment comprises moving the subset of the visual elements from their original positions on the display to another area of the display over a discernable period of time to create an animation effect and causing the visual elements from the first set that are not in the subset to be removed from the display or visually deemphasized for example by dimming the elements or displaying them in another color. The user input is applied to at least one of the media elements represented by the subset of visual elements for example applying a text effect to a visual element representing a text media element or applying a sound effect to a visual representation of an audio media element. The display transitions back to the first arrangement in a similar manner to the first transition except the subset of visual elements are restored to their original position and the elements not in the subset are restored to the display as they originally appeared. In an embodiment the order of overlap between the elements changes while in other embodiments the original order or overlap is restored.

Authoring environments for motion graphics such as video and animation generally provide approaches for creating importing and manipulating various elements. These elements are composited together along a timeline to produce a finished visual display. A current time indicator such as a playhead appears on a visual representation of the timeline to indicate the current position in time. Some elements may appear at various points along the timeline for example a title comprised of text may appear at a particular point on the display at a first frame e.g. tenth frame and disappear from the display at a subsequent frame e.g. the fortieth frame . Some elements may be arranged in a hierarchical display of layers for example the aforementioned text may be on one layer and a video element on which the textual element is overlaid may be on another layer.

According to an embodiment a user may easily select any one of the displayed elements by temporarily rearranging the elements into an expanded display that is not constrained by the boundaries of the project display . To initiate the transition into such a viewing mode a user may activate a control element such as a particular key on a keyboard a combination of a key selection and mouse activation a menu selection a mouse gesture or any input element including voice commands. According to an embodiment a request to enter the alternate viewing mode might be initiated and controlled by a source other than a user. For example executable instructions such as a software application may communicate the request through an Application Programming Interface API call. Also an operating system or application may initiate the alternate viewing mode in response to a certain condition.

When the expanded display mode is activated the composited elements are rearranged from the flat layered display of to the expanded view of . is a block diagram illustrating an intermediate state of moving to an expanded display according to an embodiment. In the composited elements are moving from the flat layered display of to the expanded view of . In an embodiment is presented wherein the elements are moving away from each other and a mask that was obscured in the view of is displayed. According to an embodiment the elements may reduce or increase in size if necessary to fit all the elements within the boundaries of the authoring interface and additionally to allow the display of the elements without overlap if possible. According to an embodiment elements may overlap in the expanded display if the alternative is to reduce elements to a size that is below a predetermined threshold. According to an embodiment the display is darkened or made the color of the display background and or the visual elements brightened to allow greater visibility of the elements being viewed in the expanded mode.

In the expanded display makes apparent that the video element is larger than presented in and that the video element has been arranged and constrained by the boundary of the project display which in is displayed in black. In one of the text titles is being selected as represented by the selection rectangle around the text title . In an embodiment selection rectangles may always be displayed with elements to clearly delineate the elements boundaries. A selection state of an element may be indicated with a colored transparent overlay plus a heads up display containing the element s name when a mouse is moved over it. According to an embodiment after making a selection such as the one illustrated in or in response to a user or system input as discussed earlier the composited elements may return to their original position as illustrated in . In an embodiment the selected element remains selected and is displayed on top of the remaining elements for ease in selection and manipulation. In the example illustrated in the text title had previously been obscured by the boundary of the other text title and would have been difficult to select without performing additional steps such as locating the particular element in a linear list after selecting a particular layer in another linear list.

In one of the video elements is being selected as represented by the selection rectangle around the video element . According to an embodiment after making a selection such as the one illustrated in or in response to a user or system input as discussed earlier the timeline of the project shifts to the first frame at which the selected element appears in the project and the selected element remains selected and is displayed on top of the remaining elements for ease in selection and manipulation.

While the approaches described herein allow the display of layers that are leaf nodes in a particular hierarchy of elements for example the elements are not parents of other layers another embodiment is to display groups. Groups are containers of other elements and or layers. For example the top level groups may be displayed in an expanded view as discussed herein and selecting one of the groups would result in displaying the children of that group is an expanded display and this approach may be used to drill down through any number of groups.

Once a user finds an element to select he may select it for example by clicking on the element with a mouse pointer. This group navigation allows the user to drill down into the elements hierarchy level by level instead of seeing all the leaf elements at once with no notion of how they are organized in groups.

In the embodiment illustrated in each individual element making up the project display is placed on a separate layer from each other element to represent the stacking order of the elements composited in the two dimensional display of . For example the text display is visually separated from the underlying image on which it was superimposed in and the order of display in the three dimensional expanded display represents the order in which the respective elements were stacked in the project display of . Also several image elements that in were apportioned around the project display are also visually separated from each other and placed on their own layer in the three dimensional expanded display in accordance with their respective stacking orders.

In the embodiment illustrated in the project display boundary is represented with a black rectangle and the composited display of the elements at the particular point in the timeline as illustrated in is displayed at the back of the expanded three dimensional display. According to an embodiment reference rectangles may be displayed to assist a user in visually perceiving the stacking order and location of each individual element comprising the composited display.

In a project a user may wish to add and or modify one or more elements. For example to apply an effect to text such as bold or a color to insert an element into a placeholder associate a behavior with an element and or inserting an audio element into a project that may be associated with an element.

According to an embodiment a user may select a particular asset such as a video clip and place it into the composited display without having to select a layer from a list and then select the element to which the asset is to be associated from a list. According to an embodiment a user may select an asset for example by dragging a video clip from a portion of the authoring environment and place the asset in the desired location within the composited display by activating an expanded view of the elements and dropping the asset onto the desired location that is now displayed in its own area of the display.

According to an embodiment the selective filtering of elements in the expanded display may result in displaying only particular elements that are present in the project at the selected point in the project timeline or may display all particular elements present in the project. In an embodiment the particular elements selected for the expanded display are contextually chosen for example the only elements displayed in the expanded mode are the ones appropriate for a newly selected element destined for inclusion in the project. For example in the three placeholder elements are specified to only receive video elements. A video element was selected for example by dragging a video clip from a portion of the authoring environment and in response to selecting the video clip and activating the expanded view mode only the elements present in the composite display that can accept video clips were displayed in the expanded mode in this example the video placeholder elements . Other examples of contextual element display would include only displaying text elements when dragging a text style or font choice from a portion of the authoring environment and only displaying image elements when dragging an image filter from a portion of the authoring environment. While dragging and dropping elements is discussed herein in the context of the selective expanded display mode it is understood that any type of input capable of selecting an element for inclusion in a project may be used. The automatic filtering of the selective expanded view mode may be customized and additional relationships between selections made in the authoring environment and their respective elements to be displayed may be added.

According to an embodiment the selective expanded display mode may be automatically activated when importing an element into a project for example by dragging a video element from a portion of the authoring environment or otherwise selecting an element to be included in the project. In one embodiment this automatic mode selection may be triggered by depressing a modifier key while dragging an element into the work area . In one embodiment only those elements appropriate for the new element are displayed in the expanded mode while in other embodiments only those elements present in the display at a particular point in the project timeline are displayed in expanded mode or all elements may be displayed in expanded mode. In an embodiment the expanded mode is triggered when an element is dragged into the work area and deactivated when the element is dropped into the work area or dragged off of the work area .

Elements of the project that do not normally have a visual display such as audio tracks may be displayed selected and modified according to an embodiment. is a block diagram illustrating the display and modification of a project s audio tracks according to an embodiment. In the expanded display mode has been activated so that only the audio tracks associated with a project are displayed as graphical elements such as a graphical representation of part or all of the audio element s waveform. In an embodiment entering the selective expanded display mode wherein only audio elements are displayed is accomplished by holding down a modifier key while activating the expanded display mode or by another type of input such as a menu selection or dragging a mouse cursor to a particular portion of the screen. In an embodiment the selective display of audio tracks in expanded mode may be activated by dragging a file filter action or other modifier or graphical representation of such items from the authoring environment that may only be applied to an audio element such as a fade in effect. In an audio effect has been dragged into the work area and onto one of the graphical elements representing an audio element . If the audio effect is associated with the audio element for example by dropping the audio effect onto the audio element then in an embodiment the selective expanded display mode will deactivate and the normal project display will appear. In an embodiment this transition is animated so that a user may visually perceive the changing of modes.

According to an embodiment in response to selecting one or more of the audio elements in a project for example by entering the selective expanded display mode wherein one or more audio elements are displayed as graphical elements moving a cursor over the graphical elements will cause the audio element to begin playing aiding in identifying the audio element.

An audio behavior may be applied to any element accepting a parameter behavior such as video elements shapes and audio tracks. Additional behaviors could be stimuli based on other things for example physics e.g. gravity attraction to another elements etc. . All behaviors effects gradients fonts text styles shapes and styles can be dropped onto objects that accept them. Video footage may only be dropped on other video elements or drop zones which are placeholders waiting to receive video and or image elements.

Mono and or stereo tracks are displayed in the expanded display with no special layout as they don t have a position in the composition as video and or image elements do. In an embodiment surround audio tracks are laid out similarly to physical speakers the front left right channels being displayed at the top left and right of the display the center channel at the top in the middle of the display the LFE channel subwoofer in the center of the display and the surround left right channels displayed at the bottom left and right of the display. In an embodiment stereo tracks may be displayed as left and right speakers if the left and right channels have been imported separately in the composition. If they have been imported as a mix then they are expanded with no special layout.

In step the display of the first arrangement is transitioned to a display of a second arrangement in one embodiment in response to user input. This second arrangement is an expanded display mode wherein the visual elements which may be the visual elements displayed in the first arrangement all the visual elements in the presentation of a subset of all the visual elements that may or may not match the visual elements making up the first arrangement are rearranged on the display from a flat layered display to an expanded display where the visual elements move away from each other so that the elements either do not overlap or the degree of overlap is reduced. In an embodiment this transitioning is performed in a manner that visually depicts the transition such as an animation effect. In an embodiment the transition may be performed in response to selecting an effect that may be applied to one or more of the media elements represented by one or more of the visual elements or by selecting a media element that is to be associated with a visual element such as a video clip being dropped on a placeholder.

In step while displaying the visual elements in the expanded display mode one or more of the visual elements may be selected or otherwise modified. For example one of the squares may be selected by user input. In another example an effect such as a fade in audio effect may be dropped or otherwise associated with a media element such as an audio file or component. The effect may be a visual representation of the effect that is dragged onto the display and dropped on the particular visual element. In an embodiment only a subset of the visual elements such as the particular visual elements on which the selected effect may be dropped are displayed in the expanded display mode.

In step after a visual element is selected or otherwise modified by having an effect file component or other element associated or dropped on it the display is transitioned from the second arrangement to a third arrangement. The third arrangement may be the same as the first arrangement although in an embodiment the visual element selected or modified is displayed in front of the rest of the visual elements for example without being overlapped by any other element.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for implementing the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another machine readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term machine readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data that causes a machine to operation in a specific fashion. In an embodiment implemented using computer system various machine readable media are involved for example in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications. All such media must be tangible to enable the instructions carried by the media to be detected by a physical mechanism that reads the instructions into a machine.

Common forms of machine readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of machine readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

