---

title: System and method for managing contacts in an instant messaging environment
abstract: A computer-implemented method is described for instant messaging comprising: categorizing two or more instant messaging contact names into a single meta contact; receiving a request to transmit an instant message directed to the meta contact; selecting one of the two or more instant messaging contact names within the meta contact to which to transmit the instant message based on a specified prioritization scheme.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07631266&OS=07631266&RS=07631266
owner: Cerulean Studios, LLC
number: 07631266
owner_city: Brookfield
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070924
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 209 586 filed Jul. 29 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 275 215.

The invention relates generally to the field of data communication systems. More particularly the invention relates to an improved system and method for managing a plurality of contacts i.e. buddies in an instant messaging environment.

Instant messaging systems provide for live text based chat sessions between two or more users. Unlike e mail instant messaging requires that all parties be online at the same time. AOL s Instant Messenger AIM Microsoft Network Messenger Service MSNMS ICQ and Yahoo Messenger are the major instant messaging services.

Instant messaging clients allows users to maintain a list of contacts often referred to as a buddy list or contact list. A user can send instant messages to any of the people in the user s list as long as those people are online. Sending a message opens up a small window where the user and the user s buddies can type in messages that both can see.

Most of the popular instant messaging programs provide a variety of supplemental features including for example Web links the ability to share links to Websites image sharing the ability to view images stored on a buddy s computer sound sharing the ability transmit sounds to a buddy file sharing the ability to transmit files to a buddy audio communication the ability to use the Internet instead of a phone to actually talk with buddies and information streaming streaming of real time or near real time information such as stock quotes and news headlines .

Some of the basic principles associated with an instant messaging session will now be described with respect to . In order to establish an instant messaging session client computers and operated by end users must initially connect over a network e.g. the Internet to an instant messaging service . The client computers and typically establish a connection via a dial up line cable modem connection or digital subscriber line DSL . Alternatively the client computers or may be connected to the Internet via a local area network LAN gateway.

In order to communicate with the specified instant messaging service proprietary instant messaging client software must initially be installed on the client computers and . For example if the instant messaging service is AIM then AOL s proprietary instant messaging client software must be installed. The client software allows the client computers and to communicate with the AIM server using AOL s proprietary instant messaging protocol.

Similarly other instant messaging services such as IM service will require different client software installed on client computers and . For example Yahoo s proprietary IM software which includes built in support for Yahoo s proprietary IM protocol must be installed on any client computer that uses Yahoo s IM service. Moreover the client IM software and associated IM protocols required by each service are not compatible. Client software designed for one service may not be used to connect to a different service.

Once the IM client software is installed to establish an IM session the client sends the IM service connection information associated with the client computer e.g. IP address and port number . The IM service creates a temporary file that contains the connection information for the user and the contacts in the user s buddy list. It then checks to see if any of the contacts in the buddy list are currently logged in.

If the service locates any contacts logged in it sends the connection information for those contacts back to the client. The IM service also sends the user s connection information to the contacts in the buddy list that are signed on. When the client receives the connection information for a contact in the buddy list it changes the status of that person to Online. The user may then click on a name of any contact in the buddy list who is online opening an IM window in which the user may enter an instant message.

Once the users have signed on to the IM service all subsequent communication may occur directly between the two clients as indicated by the direct link between clients and and clients and . However in some circumstances IM communication must continue to occur through the instant messaging service . For example if client is behind a firewall client may not be permitted to establish an IM session with client directly.

When the user goes offline the client sends a message to the IM server to terminate the session. The server then sends a message to the clients of each contact in the user s buddy list who are currently online to indicate that the user has logged off. Finally the IM server deletes the temporary file that contained the connection information for the client s .

A computer implemented method is described for instant messaging comprising categorizing two or more instant messaging contact names into a single meta contact receiving a request to transmit an instant message directed to the meta contact selecting one of the two or more instant messaging contact names within the meta contact to which to transmit the instant message based on a specified prioritization scheme.

As described above one of the problems associated with instant messaging is the lack of interoperability between the different instant messaging services. For example a different proprietary IM client must be installed for each individual IM service on which the user opens an account. Downloading installing and coordinating among a plurality of different incompatible IM clients may consume a significant amount of time and effort on behalf of the user.

To solve this and other problems the assignee of the present application has developed a unified instant messaging client platform which is interoperable with each of the different IM services. Referring to the IM client platform is comprised generally of an IM application portion which contains standard IM functions used by each IM service e.g. a buddy list user defined online offline parameters and other universal IM features described below . Users interact with the IM application via an IM graphical user interface GUI various features of which are described below. Finally in order to provide interoperability with the different normally incompatible IM services an IM service interface module is provided for each IM service respectively. The IM service interface modules provide service specific features and communicate with the respective IM services using the IM protocol required by that service. For example if IM service is AOL then IM service interface communicates using AOL s proprietary instant messaging protocol. The various service specific protocols are employed by the IM client transparently to the end user. In sum the architecture illustrated in allows a user to access accounts on different instant messaging services using a unified IM application and a consistent graphical user interface .

One embodiment of the instant messaging GUI is illustrated in . The GUI is comprised of a buddy list which like other IM buddy lists is separated into a list of online contacts and a list of offline contacts . Unlike prior buddy lists however the buddy lists illustrated in may include contacts from various different IM services. For example the contact entries MerSingerWebster and Meredith Webster may be screen names for the same individual on different IM services e.g. AOL and Yahoo . In the particular example shown in the individual is registered as online on one account MerSingerWebster and offline for the other account Meredith Webster .

In order to coordinate among the various IM services a service bar is provided which includes a set of graphical buttons representing each of the different services. The user may connect to a particular service and or access modify the features provided by that service by selecting the button corresponding to the service. By way of example in the user has selected the AIM button bringing up a service based menu which includes settings preferences for AOL s IM service. The options available on the menu may change from one button to the next based on the options available for each service.

The user may connect to multiple services at once using one or more different screen names. However in one embodiment if the user is not logged in to a particular service the only option which will be provided via the service bar is the connection manager option shown at the top of the menu in . Selecting this option will bring up a connection manager window such as that shown in which provides a list of all services on which the user has an account. In the particular connection manager window illustrated in the user has set up accounts for Microsoft Yahoo and AOL. From the connection manager window the user may connect to the various IM accounts add new accounts delete accounts and modify preferences for each account.

One embodiment of the GUI provides the user with the option to globally connect or globally disconnect from each service on which the user has an account thereby streamlining the process of connecting disconnecting to multiple services. Similarly one embodiment provides the user with the option to globally set his her online status to globally away or globally back. Each of the global functions may be provided within the IM application . The IM service interfaces and may translate the global functions to service specific functions interpretable by each individual service and respectively. Global functions may be provided as menu entries within the GUI menu structure e.g. File and or may be triggered via certain specified hotkeys e.g. CTRL D global disconnect . . . etc .

In order to simplify the process of managing contacts from multiple IM accounts one embodiment of the invention allows the user to set up a group of screen names which represent a single user. These groups will be referred to herein as Meta Contacts. The process of creating and working with Meta Contacts will now be described with reference to .

Two of the contact names displayed in mersingerwebster and meredith webster represent the same individual on two different services e.g. AOL and Yahoo . In one embodiment of the invention in order to combine these two contact names into a single Meta Contact the user initially highlights both names and then right clicks i.e. select the right mouse button on one of the highlighted names using a mouse pointer or other graphical input mechanism. Of course various alternate input mechanisms i.e. other than a right click may be employed while still complying with the underlying principles of the invention. Right clicking in this manner will bring up a menu which includes an option to send a mass message or to create a Meta Contact. Selecting the Mass Message option allows the user to send an instant message to the group of highlighted contact names in this case the same individual. Selecting the Create Meta Contact option brings up a screen not shown in which the user is prompted to enter the name of the new Meta Contact.

After the user enters the name for the new Meta Contact the name Meredith Webster appears in the user s buddy list as illustrated in . In one embodiment of the invention as the user drags a mouse pointer or other graphical selection element over the Meta Contact the individual contact names appear beneath the Meta Contact as indicated. In addition dragging the mouse pointer over one of the individual contact names then brings up a pop up information screen which displays information related to the contact including by way of example but not limitation the online status of the contact e.g. how long the contact has been online and the instant messaging features available to the contact e.g. those supported by the contact s IM service . Various additional contact related information may be provided in the pop up information screen while still complying with the underlying principles of the invention.

In one embodiment to send an instant message to the individual represented by the Meta Contact the user clicks on the Meta Contact in the same manner as if the user were sending an instant message using a standard contact name. After clicking on the Meta Contact a window such as that shown in appears comprised of a text entry region in which the user may enter the instant message and an IM conversation window in which the complete IM conversation between the user and the selected contact appears.

In the illustrated example only one of the two IM accounts organized within the Meta Contact is selected for the IM session as indicated in the title bar . In one embodiment of the invention a user configurable prioritization scheme is employed to determine which IM account or group of accounts within the Meta Contact to select for the IM session. In one embodiment the initial prioritization is based on the order in which the contact names appear under the Meta Contact heading . Using this scheme the contact name meredith webster would be selected initially over the contact name mersingerwebster with all other variables being equal. In one embodiment of the invention the user may select and drag a contact name to a different position in the list to modify the initial priority scheme e.g. contact name may be moved above contact name . It should be noted however that various alternate techniques for determining priority may be employed i.e. other than mere positioning within the Meta Contact list while still complying with the underlying principles of the invention.

In one embodiment a relatively higher priority IM account will be passed over in favor of a relatively lower priority IM account if the user registered as offline on the higher priority account and online or idle on the lower priority account. Thus in the example illustrated in if contact is registered online and contact is offline then contact will be selected notwithstanding the fact that it is positioned beneath contact in the user s contact list. In one embodiment any contact names registered as online with their respective IM services are highlighted to indicate an online status.

Various additional user configurable Meta Contact parameters may be employed to select a particular contact name IM account. For example in one embodiment the user may configure the system to transmit instant messages to any of the accounts on which the contact is registered as online. 

As illustrated in in one embodiment the user may right click or perform another designated input function to bring up a Meta Contact control menu which allows the user to control configure the various Meta Contact functions. The user may choose to send a message to the default contact within the Meta Contact list e.g. using the prioritization scheme described above . Alternatively the user may specify a particular contact name IM account to which an instant message should be transmitted. This option which is highlighted in brings up a secondary window which includes each of the Meta Contact names from which the user may manually select.

Other noteworthy options within the Meta Contact menu include the ability to edit add information related to the contact e.g. in a text format . In one embodiment this additional information will appear in the pop up information screen illustrated in . In addition the Meta Contact menu includes the option to sort contacts based on different variables e.g. alphabetically reverse alphabetically based on medium based on status . . . etc as well as the ability to modify various contact list options.

A logical architecture for implementing the Meta Contact features described above is illustrated generally in . A Meta Contact module logically groups a plurality of individual contact data objects each of which represents an account on a different IM service. The Meta Contact module makes IM connection decisions based on a set of user configurable prioritization rules e.g. such as those described above with respect to .

In one embodiment the generalized architecture illustrated in as well as the other instant messaging features described throughout this application are implemented in software executed by a general purpose processor e.g. an Intel Pentium class processor . More specifically in one embodiment the various IM features described herein are programmed using the Extensible Markup Language XML . It should be noted however that the particular programming language employed is not pertinent to the underlying principles of the invention. Moreover the invention may be embodied in hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof.

One embodiment of the invention provides an application programming interface for plugins i.e. supplemental programs which provide the primary IM client with additional features. As illustrated in new plugins may be installed via a plugin selection window generated by selecting the plugins option from the IM client s preferences window .

As illustrated in when new plugins are installed sub windows referred to herein as sections are generated within the primary IM client window . The plugin sections illustrated in include a stock ticker and weather . The particular stock information and weather forecast information to be collected by the IM client are selected by the user at the time the plugin is installed or at any time thereafter. In one embodiment once the user specifies the information to be displayed the IM client downloads and continually refreshes the information from a particular source on the Web e.g. Yahoo Accuweather . . . etc .

Various additional plugin sections are contemplated within the scope of the present invention including for example a mini Web browser section for browsing the Internet from within the IM client and a mail section for periodically downloading e mail messages from the user s e mail account e.g. using the POP 3 protocol .

Referring now to in one embodiment the user may direct the IM client to transmit section related information to a contact. As illustrated plugins may be configured to download and display user specified information from Web servers and respectively. Plugin processes and displays information stored on a local hard drive e.g. local music files . The underlying principles of the invention remain the same regardless of how where the plugins acquire the user specified information.

In addition in the embodiment illustrated in the primary IM client is comprised of a text monitoring module and a data conversion module . The text monitoring module monitors the character sequences input by the user into the text entry region of the IM window. Certain characters or groups of characters may be designated as control characters. When the text monitoring module detects a control character or a group of control characters it triggers a content conversion module to modify supplement the user s input in one or more specified ways some examples of which are set forth below. The converted user input is then transmitted in an instant message to one or more destination IM clients .

For example in one embodiment any characters which directly follow the character are interpreted by the text monitoring module as an alias. As used herein an alias identifies data maintained by one of the plugins which is then inserted into the instant message by the content conversion module . For example as indicated in data fields and in when the text monitoring module detects the alias music it triggers the content conversion module which replaces music with the string of text me is listening to s. The content conversion module then replaces me with the user s name and s with the name of the MP3 track or other type of music track that the user is currently listening to e.g. Meredith Webster is listening to Tangerine . The name of the MP3 track is extracted from the music plugin e.g. plugin installed and executed on the IM client . Additional aliases may be created to transmit various user specified data to IM recipients e.g. news to indicate a news story stock to transmit stock quotes for the user s portfolio video to indicate the program that the user is currently watching . . . etc . It should be noted however that the underlying principles of the invention are not limited to any particular type of alias or any particular type of user specified data.

In addition to or in lieu of using aliases the user may configure the IM client to reformat and or replace various specified character strings. For example when the user types his her screen name he she may want it to appear in bolded or italicized characters. Similarly the user may want to trigger some sort of event in response to a particular character string e.g. playing of a .WAV file execution of a program . . . etc .

Selection box allows the user to specify a background and foreground highlight color for the selected text. Selection box allows the user to specify a tooltip note to be displayed above the character string. Selection box allows the user to enter a character string to be used in place of the input character string. For example the user s real name may be substituted for his her screen name and certain acronyms may be replaced with the character string represented by the acronym e.g. BTW By the way .

Finally at the user may specify an event that will be triggered as a result of the text monitoring module identifying the specified character string. Events may be programmed via the events window shown in . A variety of different events may be triggered in response to a particular character string including by way of example but not limitation generating a specified sound e.g. identified as a .WAV file stored on a local storage device executing a specified program or a specified program action e.g. opening a picture of an individual identified by the character string generating an alert window or a Systray alert i.e. an alert appearing in the Windows system tray and or setting a user status e.g. online to offline . Various other events may be programmed in response to specified character strings while still complying with the underlying principles of the invention.

In addition to the event based features described above with respect to the receipt of character strings one embodiment of the invention employs a comprehensive event system for generating virtually any type of program action in response to virtually any type of events. One embodiment of the event system is illustrated generally in in which after a user specifies a set of events and associated actions an event monitoring module continually monitors the IM client to detect any of the specified events . In response to detecting an event the event monitoring module generates the specified action associated with that event.

Two types of event selection windows are provided in the illustrated embodiment. A general event window is illustrated in and an advanced event window is illustrated in . The general event window provides users with access to the most commonly specified event types. For example in region the user may configure the system to modify the user s status based on whether the user is actively using the mouse or keyboard. In one embodiment if this option is selected the user s status will change to idle after a first period of inactivity e.g. 5 minutes and then offline after a second specified period of inactivity e.g. 20 minutes . The first and second periods of inactivity may also be specified by the user.

In region the user may select conditions under which the user s status should be set back to online e.g. either when set away manually or by an event or only when set away by an event . Region allows the user to configure various sound generation actions as indicated and region allows the user to customize away messages. In one embodiment choosing to add a new away message brings up the window illustrated in . In region the user may specify that for some IM services the services standard away message should be used whereas for other IM services e.g. Yahoo in the example a customized away message should be used. The customized away message may be entered in region as illustrated.

In one embodiment of the invention the following event types are supported program generated events idle time events hotkey events and scheduled events. Program generated events are events triggered by any function performed by the IM client or another external client program. For example a user may program the system to perform an action in response to the receipt of either a new instant message internal or a new e mail message external . In one embodiment the user may program the event monitoring module to set the user s status as offline when the user s screen saver triggers.

Idle time events are events triggered after a predetermined amount of time that the user is inactive e.g. not manipulating the mouse or keyboard . Hotkey events are triggered in response to the selection of a specified key or set of keys while the IM client is running e.g. CTRL M create new instant messaging session . Finally in one embodiment of the invention a scheduler is provided which allows the user to schedule actions at specified dates and times. The user may program the actions associated with scheduled events to trigger only once daily weekly business weekly e.g. Monday through Friday monthly or yearly to name just a few options.

As mentioned above for each specified event various types of actions may be selected within the action type region including but not limited to generating a specified sound e.g. from a .WAV file executing a specified program e.g. by identifying an executable file generating an alert window or a Systray alert and or modifying the user s status. Once a new event and associated action is added to the system it appears within the event list in region .

Embodiments of the invention may include various steps as set forth above. The steps may be embodied in machine executable instructions which cause a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform certain steps e.g. on a client computer . Alternatively these steps may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hardwired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components.

Elements of the present invention may also be provided as a machine readable medium for storing the machine executable instructions. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. For example the present invention may be downloaded as a computer program which may be transferred from a remote computer e.g. a server to a requesting computer e.g. a client by way of data signals embodied in a medium.

Throughout the foregoing description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details were set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. For example while the embodiments of the invention described above focus on a specific graphical user interface implementation for the IM client various alternate interface types may be employed including text based interfaces. In addition although a client based implementation is described above a server based implementation or other distributed computing implementation is also contemplated within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the scope and spirit of the invention should be judged in terms of the claims which follow.

