---

title: Restricting access to requested resources
abstract: Access to network information may be restricted based on a classification of the network information. When a request for network information is received, a classification of the network information is determined. The network information may be classified as static or dynamic. If the network information is classified as static, a rating of the content that corresponds to the network information is determined. If the network information is dynamic, the network information is accesses, and a rating of the content associated with the network information is generated. After determining a content rating, the content rating is compared to a user content setting of user making the request for the network information. Based on the comparison, it is determined if access to network information is approved. If approved, the content is retrieved and/or access is granted, otherwise, the access to the network information is restricted or blocked.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07636777&OS=07636777&RS=07636777
owner: AOL LLC
number: 07636777
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070213
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 10 158 199 filed May 31 2002 and titled Restricting Access to Requested Resources which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 360 019 filed Feb. 28 2002 and titled Restriction Access to Requested Resources both of which are incorporated by reference.

The following description relates to restricting access to requested resources and more particularly to restricting access to network information.

A vast collection of information created by different individuals groups institutions companies and others throughout the world is made available to the public through global networks such as the Internet. Access to public information on the Internet may be obtained using a computer having a connection to the Internet and a browser.

Because the Internet is a global network it may be used to access information that is directed to many different topics. For example information may be directed to religion cultures ideologies and lifestyles some of which may be considered offensive to certain individuals. In addition Internet accessible information may be considered graphic violent harmful illegal or sexual and therefore inappropriate for certain users. As such various mechanisms have been developed to regulate access to information available from the Internet.

According to one general aspect access to network information may be restricted based on a classification of the network information. When a request for network information is received a classification of the network information is determined. The network information may be classified as static or dynamic.

If the network information is classified as static a rating of the content that corresponds to the network information is accessed or determined. If the network information is classified as dynamic the network information is accessed and a rating of the content associated with the network information is generated.

The rating is compared to a user content setting of user making the request for the network information. Based on the comparison access to network information is approved or restricted. If approved the content is retrieved and or access is granted otherwise the access to the network information is restricted or blocked.

The network may be implemented using a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a global network or a combination of these networks e.g. the Internet and the World Wide Web . In the following examples the World Wide Web is used to illustrate the operation of the system .

A client may be operated by one or more users to access network information. The client may be implemented using for example a server a workstation a computer a processor or any intelligent device that is capable of executing instructions and connecting to a network. The client may include any number of devices and or peripherals not shown e.g. displays memory storage devices input devices interfaces printers communication application cards and speakers that facilitate the access and use of network information.

The client also may include a number of software applications including an application that is configured to access interpret and present network information. The software application may be implemented using a browser such as for example Netscape Communicator Microsoft s Internet Explorer or any other software application that may be used to interpret and process a markup language such as for example HTML SGML DHTML or XML.

The browser may comprise software including plug in applications that allow the browser to interpret process and present different types of network information. The browser also may incorporate application tools such as for example Java Active X and JavaScript. In addition a browser may be implemented or embedded within another software application e.g. an active desktop a word processor an email a chat or an organizer .

The browser may be used to contact a source e.g. a web server connected to the network to request network information associated with the source . The source locates the requested network information and sends the requested network information to the browser . The browser interprets commands of the markup language to present the network information to a user.

The client may be configured to connect to a host . The host may provide a gateway or an access point for the client to connect to the network by routing requests for network information from the client to the network . The host also may direct responses from the network to the client . The host may be part of a private network e.g. a LAN or a WAN that includes the client or the host may be part of a private network that is external to and therefore contacted by the client e.g. using a dial up connection . According to one implementation the host may be implemented by an Internet service provider ISP .

The client and host may be connected using a communications link . The communications link may be configured to send and receive signals e.g. electrical electromagnetic or optical that convey or carry data streams representing various types of digital content e.g. data information and resources . For example the communications link may be implemented using a plain old telephone service POTS line network a digital subscriber line DSL network an integrated services digital network ISDN and a synchronous optical network SONET . In addition a communications link may include a wireless link using electromagnetic signals such as for example radio infrared and microwave signals to convey information. The communications link may include .

As shown in the host A may include a collection of devices such as for example a source a proxy server a rating application technology server RATS and a content over . The proxy server handles requests from the client to access network information which may be resident on or accessible through sources within the host or connected to the network . The RATS helps determine whether to grant access to the requested network information at the source . The proxy server and the RATS may be implemented by a single intelligent device or they may be distributed among a number of intelligent devices e.g. processors computers and servers . In addition the RATS may be located apart from the host and may be accessed by more than one proxy server .

When a user wishes to access network information the client establishes a connection to the host using a communications link . The connection may be permanent or temporary. The client and the host may establish a connection using a login procedure. During the login procedure the client and host may establish a connection and a communications protocol. In addition the host may require some form of identification ID for example a password or other ID that is associated with the user of the client . The ID may be used to access a user profile stored by the host .

The proxy server may assign client identification ID or ticket to the client . The client ID may be used to enable communications between the client and the network and its associated sources . For example the client ID may be used by the proxy server to handle requests for network information e.g. to send the network information to the browser for display . In one implementation the client ID may be a network address for example an Internet protocol IP address that is used as the source address to which replies for requested network information are sent. The client then may request network information from a source .

Client generated requests to access network information may include an address that indicates the location of the network information such as for example a uniform resource locator URL . The browser sends the URL to the host using a protocol such as for example a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . The host may obtain an IP destination address corresponding to the URL to access the information from a source. For example the client may send a request to the host for a web page from company x using a URL that corresponds to the web page such as http www.companyx.com dir page.html. The first part of the URL i.e. http indicates the communications protocol used. The second part i.e. www.companyx.com may be a domain used to indicate what kind of source is being contacted. The third part i.e. dir may be used to identify the site or source e.g. a web server that is to be contacted. The final part i.e. page.html may be used to indicate a directory a file a page or an other resource associated of the source . Within the host the proxy server translates the URL http www.companyx.com dir page.html to an IP destination address such as for example 111.11.111.1. The proxy server then accesses the source specified by the IP destination address.

Search engines and other tools make locating network information relatively easy once a client is connected to the network . Thus in many instances sources and their associated network information may be accessed based on merely providing a URL to a browser loaded on an intelligent device connected to the network . Therefore in certain instances it may be desirable to limit or restrict access to the network information that may be requested by the browser and the client . For example a parent may wish to restrict the information that is accessible by children or a user may wish to restrict access to information that he or she may find offensive.

Access to network information may be blocked or restricted by rating the network information according to categories of content and user content settings related thereto. Specifically a number of categories may be used to rate the content of network information such as for example alcohol educational nature drugs abortion cults gambling guns hate weapons news sex advice sex education shopping sports tobacco travel pornography lifestyle violence gambling current events cultural religious and mature content. These categories are exemplary they are not intended to be limiting.

User access information may be established to restrict access to network information that includes content in one or more of the selected categories assigned to the user access information. For example predefined user access information may be established to regulate content made available to predefined groups of individuals such as for example kids young teens mature teens and adults. In one such implementation user access information for kids may be configured to exclude network information related to alcohol drugs abortion cults gambling hate weapons news sex advice sex education shopping tobacco travel pornography lifestyle violence gambling current events cultural religion and mature content. User access information for young teens may exclude alcohol drugs abortion cults hate weapons sex advice sex education tobacco pornography lifestyle violence gambling cultural and mature content. User access information for mature teens may be configured to exclude network information relating to alcohol drugs hate weapons pornography violence gambling and mature content. User access information for adults may be configured to allow access to any category of network information. Furthermore different or user customized user access information may be established to regulate access by one or more individuals to selected categories. For example a user could create user access information that excludes network information relating to pornography occult sex advice and mature content.

The user content settings may be stored in or associated with the user profile. The user access information may be stored in the client the host or some other device. When the client establishes a connection with the host during the login procedure the proxy server may access the corresponding user profile to determine an appropriate user access information. The proxy server in conjunction with the RATS may use the user access information to approve block or restrict access to network information as explained in further detail below.

The RATS may include an application programming interface API and a number of resource classifiers for example lists files databases lookup tables or other structures for storing and or organizing data. The API may access the resource classifiers to retrieve data that may be used to determine whether or not to restrict access to requested network information. In addition the RATS may include a content override that may be used to override a resource classifier. The content override may include a number of URLs that have an associated classification e.g. static or dynamic and a content rating e.g. a content map that is used by the RATS to determine whether to grant access block or restrict requested network information. The content override is described in further detail below.

Network information and its corresponding URL may be classified as static or dynamic. A classification of static may designate that the network information associated with an address has been determined to be related to specific categories of information. A dynamic classification may designate that the network information associated with an address has information that may or may not include information relating to certain categories of content. In one example information classified as dynamic may change regularly and not be predisposed to any particular content category. For example a URL may not regularly include information that relates to abortion however on occasion such information may be accessible. Rather than classify the URL on the remote possibility that it may contain particular content or that the URL on occasion has contained particular content a dynamic classification allows for a determination to be made at the time of the request for the information.

In the implementation of the RATS includes a static resource classifier and a dynamic resource classifier . The static resource classifier may store a number of network addresses e.g. URL and IP for sources and their associated network information. For example the static resource classifier may store an entire or partial URL collectively referred to as a URL below that is associated with network information. One or more indications that may be used to determine the type of content or information corresponding to the address are associated with network addresses within the static resource classifier thus enabling regulation of access to the network information with respect to the addresses. For example a content rating may be stored for a URL that is used to determine whether to block restrict or grant access to network information associated with that URL.

As shown in the system B may include a RATS for each resource classifier. For example the host may include a static RATS and a dynamic RATS . The RATS and may each include an API . The static RATS may include a static resource classifier and a content override . The dynamic RATS may include a dynamic resource classifier .

The proxy server provides a URL and user access information to the static RATS . The static RATS may determine if the URL is static or dynamic as described below. If the URL is static then the static RATS approves blocks or restricts access. If the static RATS determines that the rating is dynamic an indication that the URL is dynamic is returned to the proxy server . The proxy server may determine to block access to the information based on the dynamic rating and the user access information as described above. In addition the proxy server may access the network information associated with the URL and provide network information and the user access information to the dynamic RATS . The dynamic RATS may generate a content rating for the network information and determine if access to the information should be granted or restricted as described above. The RATS returns a determination to the proxy server to restrict block or access the information.

As shown in an example of a portion of a static resource classifier may include a number of addresses such as for example www.pornographicsite.net www.cartoonsite.com www.companyx.biz clothes www.companyx.biz hunting and www.fictionalmag.net . An identifier may be associated with each URL to indicate that an address is classified as static or dynamic. For example if the identifier is set to a logic zero then the corresponding URL is classified as static. If the identifier is set to a logic one then the corresponding URL is classified as dynamic. Alternatively the absence of a URL in the static resource classifier may be used to indicate that a URL is classified as dynamic. For example if a search of the static resource classifier does not find a URL the RATS returns a message typically to the proxy server that the URL is classified as dynamic. Similarly a list of URLs that are classified as dynamic may be used. In this case if a search of the resource classifier does not find a URL the RATS or determines that the URL is static.

A content rating also may be associated with each URL that is classified as static. The content rating may include a number of content indicators for each category that is used to rate the URLs. For example a content rating may include categories such as for example alcohol drugs abortion violence pornography hate shopping and weapons that collectively form a content map .

As shown in the URL www.pornographicsite.net is classified as static and may contain information relating to alcohol pornography and shopping. The URL www.fictionalmag.net is classified as dynamic and therefore has no corresponding content map .

When the client requests network information the proxy server determines the user access information associated with the user profile of the operator making the request e.g. using an assigned network address a client ID or ticket . The proxy server provides the RATS or with the URL and the user access information associated with the request for network information. The API of the RATS or uses the URL to access the static resource classifier to determine a classification for the URL e.g. static or dynamic . If the URL is rated as static the API returns a content map for the URL and the RATS or processes the content map based on the user access information to determine whether to restrict access to the network information. The RATS or provides the proxy server with the determination whether or not to restrict access to the network information.

More specifically if a user requests the URL e.g. www.companyx.biz clothes the RATS or determines that the URL is classified as static and determines a corresponding content map . The user access information is compared to the content map to determine if the network information associated with the URL may be accessed. For example the user content setting and content map may be logically ANDed to derive a comparison set .

The RATS or uses the comparison set to determine an indicator that designates whether the network information associated with the URL may be accessed. For example the values of the comparison set may be logically ORed to derive an indicator having a logical one e.g. based on the category shopping . An indicator having a value of logic one may designate that access should be restricted and a value of logic zero may indicate that access is permitted. In this case the RATS instructs the proxy server not to send the request to the source and the proxy server may return a browser error message to the client e.g. stating that access is denied .

In contrast shows an example B of a request for the same information associated with URL by a user with a different user access information. In this example user access information for young teens creates a mask that corresponds to the content categories shown in . A request for the same URL retrieves the content map . A comparison of the user access information and the content map results in a comparison set which contains all zeros. A logical OR of the comparison set results in an indicator of a logic zero designating that the information may be accessed . The proxy server then forwards the request to the source specified by URL and the source returns a web page for clothing to the proxy server . The proxy server identifies the IP address associated with the request and forwards the clothing web page to the corresponding browser for presentation to the user.

As described above the RATS and also may include a dynamic resource classifier . The dynamic resource classifier may be an application system dataset or combination thereof that is used to rate the content of information associated with an address. For example if the network information associated with a URL is classified as dynamic by the static classifier the RATS or return an indication of dynamic for the URL to the proxy server .

In one implementation based on receiving an indication from the RATS or that a URL is classified as dynamic the proxy server may determine to block or restrict access to the URL based on the user access information. For example if the requestor has a user access information of kids only the proxy server may determine to block access to the requested network information.

In response to receiving an indication of a dynamic URL from the RATS or the proxy server also may send a request for the network information associated with the URL to the source corresponding to the network information. When source replies to the proxy server with the network information the proxy server may provide the network information to the RATS or or the proxy server may examine the network information returned from the source for example by extracting data associated with the network information such as text data or metadata.

The accessed network information and or the extracted data may be provided to the RATS or . The RATS or accesses the dynamic resource classifier using API to generate a content rating for the network information based on the network information and or the extracted data. For example the dynamic resource classifier and API may generate a content map for the extracted data using the same categories that are used to rate addresses in the static resource classifier . In one implementation the API and information stored by the rating devices may be provided and or implemented by a third party vendor. The dynamic resource classifier may rate the network information as a whole or the dynamic resource classifier may act to rate one or more individual objects from within the extracted data that makes up the network information.

If the extracted data includes content in any category then the corresponding category in the content map is set to a logic one. All remaining categories are set to zero. In addition if the dynamic resource classifier is unable to rate the content for any extracted data with regard to the content categories then the corresponding categories for the extracted data may be set to one.

The RATS or compares the generated content map to the user access information associated with the user profile to determine whether to grant or restrict access to the network information. If the content map indicates that any content of the information may not be accessed by the operator having the user access information the RATS or provides the proxy server an indication that the proxy server should block access to the information otherwise the network information is provided to the browser for presentation to the user.

The proxy server may grant limited access to network information of multiple objects by blocking access to objects containing content that is restricted by the user access information and granting access to other objects containing content that is not restricted. For example when a web page is displayed a portion of the web page that is accessible may be presented normally however a restricted area may remain blank or include an indicator showing the content is restricted.

In a more specific example a browser may request network information that corresponds to the web site www.fictonalmag.net dir frontpage.html. In response to the request the proxy server provides the URL and user access information to the RATS or . The RATS or accesses the static resource classifier and determines that the network information corresponding to URL is classified as dynamic. The RATS or instructs the proxy server that the URL is dynamically rated. The proxy server then requests the network information associated with the URL from the corresponding source on the network . In response network information is provided to the RATS or for generation of a content rating.

The Boolean logic used to illustrate the examples of A and B are only examples of logic that may be used. Other equivalent techniques and methods may be used to implement the user access information and a content map.

The RATS or may be provided with a content override . The content override may include a list file database lookup table of URLs and associated classifications and content ratings. When the URL and user access information are provided the RATS or may determine if the URL is included in the content override . If the URL is located in the content override the RATS or determines the classification that is stored in the content override . If the content rating is classified as static the RATS or accesses a content rating e.g. a content map associated with the URL in the content override and compares the content rating with the user access information to determine if access should be granted. If the URL is classified as dynamic the RATS or returns an indication to the proxy server that the URL is dynamic. A determination may then be made for the dynamic URL as described above. In this manner classification and content rating in the static classifier may be overridden.

In another implementation a content rating may be stored in the content override that indicates access to network information should blocked or restrict to one or more user access information types or all user access information types. A block may be useful in restricting access to network information that undesirable such as for example network information that is prohibited by law or harmful to society as whole e.g. a child pornography website network information that is used to perpetrate crimes or break laws e.g. furthering criminal activity such as frauds or terrorist activity or network information that poses a threat to or provided unwanted activity to users of the host e.g. obtaining user passwords perpetrating smurf attacks on systems implementing Trojan horses spamming users or spreading viruses .

If there is no override a classification of the network information e.g. static or dynamic is determined . It then is determined whether the classification is static . If the network information is static a rating of the content e.g. a content map that corresponds to the network information is determined . If the network information is dynamic or if the override classification is dynamic a request for the network information is made and a rating of the content associated with the network information is generated .

After determining a content rating or the content rating is compared to a user access information of a user making the request . Based on the comparison it is determined if access to network information is approved . If approved the content is retrieved and or access is granted otherwise the access to the network information is restricted or blocked .

In one implementation a third party vendor may be used to provide one or more of the above described process elements e.g. or . For example a third party vendor may provide information used to establish a content rating or content map for network information or may generate content ratings for network information.

The host system may include a content manager application or tool that may be used with a browser application a content manager database and a content manager server . For example the content manager may be used by a system administrator to view current listings in the static classifiers and or to override the static classifiers .

The content manager application or tool may be implemented using a processor a computer or an intelligent network device running a browser application. Although shown as an individual unit in a content manager may be implemented on one or more intelligent devices having a connection to a content manager server and running the content manager software.

The content manager may determine the classification e.g. static or dynamic and the content rating e.g. a content map associated with any address e.g. a URL that is stored in the static resource classifier of a host . For example the content manager may send a request to the content manager server to access the classification and or content rating for a URL stored in a static resource classifier or content override of a host . The content manager server may determine the content rating or classification by sending a request to a designated RATS or . The RATS or responds with the requested classification and or content rating. The classification and or content rating may be stored in the content database and or displayed by the content manager e.g. as a web page .

The content manager may override any classification or content rating stored by the static resource classifier by storing a classification e.g. static or dynamic and or content rating e.g. a content map in the content override . For example the content manager may change the classification associated with an address to static or dynamic. In addition the content manager may change or edit the content rating associated with an address. For example the content manager may change the value associated with a category in a content map. The content manager also may provide a general override of the content rating by writing all ones to every category in a content map. In addition as described above a content rating may restrict or block access to network information for one or more specified user access information types or block access to network information for all user access information types.

The content manager may change the classification or content rating associated with an address stored in the content override by identifying an address e.g. a URL and storing a classification and or content rating e.g. a content map or override associated with the address in the content database . The content manager server may access e.g. periodically the content database and determine if any addresses are stored in the content database . For each address stored in the content database the content manager server may access the classification and or content rating associated with the address and push the classification or content rating to each of the RATS or . The RATS or access their content overrides to store the new or updated classification and or content rating associated with the address. In this manner the classification or content rating in each static resource classifier may be overridden at substantially the same time.

In another implementation the RATSs or may request updates for their content overrides by accessing the content management server and database . The content management server may send any content rating overrides to the requesting RATs and to be stored in their corresponding content overrides .

By classifying the network information e.g. as static or dynamic over inclusive and under inclusive effects of restrictions to network information may be limited or avoided. A static rating may be given to network information that includes content in one or more categories on a certain percentage of the time e.g. 30 50 70 90 which may be determined by the host operator. A dynamic rating allows network information that includes varying content to be screened and restricted without using an over inclusive determination to always block the information for certain user access information or an under inclusive determination that may let inappropriate or offensive information reach a user.

Processing times for determining restrictions also may be optimized. For example by reserving the page by page determination of content to limited sites with dynamic content processing efficiencies and speed may be increased without compromising security. In addition the content manager allows a system operator to view content ratings to make sure the ratings are appropriate and allows a system operator to override the content ratings if it is determined that inappropriate material is being accessed.

A number of exemplary implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example advantageous results may be achieved if the steps of the disclosed techniques are performed in a different order and or if components in a disclosed architecture device or circuit are combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

