---

title: Gestural techniques with wireless mobile phone devices
abstract: A user gestures with a wireless mobile phone device to control some aspect of its operation, or the operation of a remote system with which the device communicates. Application programs can solicit gestural information through a standardized set of interface protocols (e.g., API functions). One function, for example, solicits a running set of gesture data, and a complementary function discontinues the first function. Other functions solicit device movement data in particular directions. In some arrangements gesture data is sent by the wireless device to a remote system, which may issue a response that is dependent on the received gesture data. This response may also depend on other data obtained by the wireless device (e.g., obtained from an electronic or physical object, or sensed from the environment) and sent to the remote system. The wireless device may have different modes of interacting with users, to accommodate users with greater or lesser proficiency in gestural techniques. A variety of other features and arrangements are also detailed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08391851&OS=08391851&RS=08391851
owner: Digimarc Corporation
number: 08391851
owner_city: Beaverton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070525
---
This application is a division of application Ser. No. 09 758 532 filed Jan. 10 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 224 995 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 09 571 422 filed May 15 2000 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 947 571 which claims priority to provisional application 60 163 332 filed Nov. 3 1999.

In copending application Ser. No. 09 343 104 filed Jun. 29 1999 a continuation of which has been published as US20050013462 and Ser. No. 09 292 569 filed Apr. 15 1999 a continuation of which has been published as US20030219144 the present assignee details a variety of novel communications and control technologies. The present specification builds on those earlier applications detailing additional novel technologies and systems.

 The presently claimed technology comprises just a subset of the technology detailed in this application and the other applications patents that are incorporated herein by reference. 

The cited 104 application details a variety of optical input devices including some in which the optical sensor element and Bedoop now known as Digimarc MediaBridge decoding circuitry are integrated on a common substrate. A variety of other novel input devices can also be used.

One is a mouse like peripheral that includes an optical sensing system. The optical sensing system can comprise a 1D array of plural optical sensors e.g. CCD CMOS etc. or a 2D array. Such devices are already known in other contexts e.g. the Microsoft IntelliMouse with IntelliEye technology. That device includes a multi element CMOS optical sensor integrated on an IC with various detector and processing circuitry operating in conjunction with a short focal length imaging lens and an LED illumination source. The circuitry tracks movement of patterns across the sensor s field of view by which the mouse s movement can be deduced. The Microsoft product collects 1500 data sets per second a rate much higher than is needed in most embodiments of the assignee s Bedoop technology.

Such a mouse like peripheral can omit the buttons and position sensing features commonly provided on traditional mice yielding a simple desk facing palm camera that generates frames of data corresponding to a small area under the sensor portion of the mouse. More typically however the peripheral includes the buttons roller wheels and or X Y position sensing arrangements of traditional mice so that button and positional forms of data input can be exploited in interacting with the Bedoop application.

The optical data collected by the sensor can be processed within the peripheral s processor to extract the steganographically encoded binary Bedoop data therefrom. Or this processing burden can be undertaken by the associated computer system with the peripheral simply processing and formatting the raw sensor data into sequential frames of image data to be output to that system.

Any form of hand held scanner whether of the type just described or others known in the art offers a convenient way to interact with catalog advertising. Imagine a traditional paper catalog e.g. from L.L. Bean Inc. or Lands End. Each image in the catalog is Bedoop encoded with a code that identifies the depicted product. A user browsing through the catalog on seeing a product of interest places the scanner over the picture and optionally may be required to push a button or otherwise signal to initiate further processing . The scanner detects the Bedoop data and relays it to an associated computer optionally with data identifying the consumer . The computer polls a remote server computer maintained by the merchant which responds with data corresponding to the item depicted in the scanned image. This returned data can include data indicating the sizes available data indicating the colors available data indicating the variant styles available flag bits indicating whether each item is in stock etc. This returned data can be presented to the consumer typically on a display device but alternatively in audible form.

Preferably the customer s body measurements waist size inseam length neck size etc. are stored in a user profile either on the local computer or at the merchant s server computer. This allows the system to customize the data presented to the user e.g. showing the color options and availability only for the depicted shirt in a 16 inch neck and a 34 inch sleeve length.

If necessary the user can select among the color or style options using the handheld input device either buttons gestures etc. or any other input device. Or the item may be one for which no further specifications are needed. In either event once the desired product has been sufficiently specified the user can signal the system to place the order. Payment and shipping details can be arranged through any of the great variety of techniques known in the art e.g. by charging to a credit card number and shipping to an address on file with the merchant as detailed e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 960 411 .

While scanning peripherals of the type described above are typically wired to an associated host system wireless links e.g. radio infrared ultrasonic etc. can of course be used freeing the user from the constraint imposed by the cable.

One of the embodiments detailed in the earlier applications is a pay telephone with a Bedoop sensor. The technology can likewise be integrated into cellular phones of the type available from Motorola Nokia Qualcomm and others and reviewed in applicant s allowed application Ser. No. 09 172 324 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 064 737 . Such a phone can be equipped with a 1D or 2D image sensor the output of which is applied to Bedoop decoding circuitry within the phone. This decoding circuitry can be the phone s main CPU or can be a processing circuit dedicated to Bedoop functionality. As noted elsewhere the decoding can be effected by dedicated hardware by decoding software executing on a general purpose CPU etc. 

Cell phones are already equipped with numerous features that make them well suited for Bedoop operation. One is that cell phones typically include an LCD or similar screen for display of textual or graphic information and additionally include buttons or other controls for selecting among menu options presented on the screen e.g. by moving a cursor. Moreover cell phones naturally include both audio input and output devices i.e. microphone and speaker . Still further the protocol by which cell phones transmit data includes data identifying the phone so that such data need not be separately encoded. And finally cell phones obviously provide ready links to remote computer systems. Collectively these capabilities rival those of the most fully equipped desktop computer system. Thus essentially all of the applications detailed in the prior applications can be implemented using cell phone Bedoop systems.

As with the other Bedoop systems when Bedoop data is sensed the phone can respond to the data locally or it can forward same over the cellular network to a remote system or computer network for handling.

One application that may be invoked locally i.e. within the phone is the dialing of a corresponding telephone number as detailed e.g. in the above cited applications . In some embodiments the phone number is literally encoded as part of the Bedoop data payload. In others the phone number is stored in a memory within the phone and indexed in accordance with an identifier decoded from the Bedoop data.

The variety of operations that can be handled remotely is virtually limitless. Some entail interaction with the user. For example the remote system may initially respond by presenting to the user a menu of options on the display screen e.g. Purchase Add to Shopping List Request Sample Add to Notepad etc. The user then responds by providing further input e.g. by manipulating one or more buttons on the phone by providing spoken instructions to a voice recognition sub system within the phone etc. . This further data is then dispatched from the phone and the requested action undertaken. Other operations don t require further interaction with the user but immediately invoke a corresponding action.

In this and other contexts it will be recognized that the gestural input concepts detailed in the prior applications involve relative movement between the sensor and the encoded object. In most of the earlier examples the sensor is stationary so gesticulation is effected by moving the object. Naturally if the sensor is moveable e.g. as a cell phone the gestural movement can be effected by moving the sensor instead.

In the earlier filed applications the user can solicit different responses by moving the object relative to the sensor. In other embodiments different responses can be solicited without movement e.g. by presenting the object at different orientations.

Consider a magazine advertisement. When presented to the sensor with the top of the page up a first response can be invoked. If the page is presented at a rotation of 90 degrees a second response can be invoked. Similarly with 180 degrees rotation i.e. upside down and 270 degrees rotation. The Bedoop detector can detect these different rotational states by reference to attributes of the watermark signal discerned from the magazine page e.g. by reference to the rotation state discerned from the subliminal grid signal detailed in applicant s prior patents .

While the just described arrangement included the Bedoop decoding function within the phone in other embodiments the image data can be transmitted from the phone and decoded at a remote location.

In the earlier filed applications reference was made to GPS receivers as permitting the location of a person to be tracked and contact information updated accordingly. GPS receivers find many other applications in Bedoop contexts. For example the response of a Bedoop system can be tailored or vary in accordance with the location of the person invoking the operation. To illustrate if a user presents a newspaper insert or coupon for a Dominos pepperoni pizza meal to the Bedoop sensor on a GPS equipped cellular phone the GPS data can be encoded in the Bedoop data dispatched to the Domino s Bedoop server. That server can identify by reference to the GPS data the location of the nearest Domino s franchise and can forward the order to that franchisee. The franchisee in turn can telephone the user by reference to telephone number data from the cell phone to confirm the order inquire if additional items are desired inform the user of the final price and to obtain the delivery address. The latter step can be omitted the franchisee can employ the GPS data to obtain the corresponding street address e.g. from map data licensed through NavTech of Chicago. 

The protocols by which the Bedoop data GPS data and cell phone identification data are conveyed from the phone to the cellular network can take various forms the design of such systems are familiar to those in the relevant arts. In one embodiment the protocols by which some cell phones are now provided with email or internet access are further adapted to convey Bedoop and GPS data. The protocols for conveying telephone identification data are already well established. Once received by the cellular network the Bedoop data can be formatted into packets either incorporating the GPS data and telephone data into the same packet structure or by formatting such data into separate packets accompanying the Bedoop packets.

The provision of image sensors in cell phones enables other functionality. One is the capture of still or video imagery. Such image data can be compressed typically by lossy processes such as MPEG JPEG or the like implemented with dedicated hardware CODECs and transmitted with the audio data. The screens on such phones can likewise be used for display of incoming image or video data.

Another function enabled by image sensors in cell phones is user verification e.g. by retinal scanning or other optically sensed biometrics before the phone will permit a call to be placed. A great number of such biometric verification techniques are known.

Cell phone Bedoop sensors may not always be in communication with the cell phone network. The phone may be out of range of a cell site or may be in operational mode in which an RF link is not then established. In such events any Bedoop data sensed by the phone that is to be handled remotely is desirably stored locally within the phone and queued for transmission to the cellular network the next time communication is established a so called store and forward form of operation .

Wholly unrelated to the foregoing is the notion of a Bedoop encoded tattoo. Temporary tattoos are well known and typically include an ink or printed film that is transferred to a wearer s skin through some application process e.g. wetting or otherwise . The artwork on the tattoo can be arranged to steganographically encode Bedoop data.

While the prior applications noted that a great variety of printing technologies can be employed in Bedoop applications it should be noted that e paper can be employed as well. E paper developed by Nicholas K. Sheridon of Xerox and mass produced by 3M is a thin layer of transparent plastic in which millions of small beads somewhat like toner particles are dispersed. The beads each contained in a fluid filled cavity are free to rotate within those cavities. The beads are bichromal with hemispheres of contrasting color e.g. black and white . Under the influence of a voltage applied to the surface of the sheet the beads rotate to present one colored side or the other to the viewer. A pattern of voltages can be applied to the surface in a bit wise fashion to create images such as text and pictures. The image persists until new voltage patterns are applied to create new images. The reader is presumed familiar with the US patents issued to Sheridon on this technology.

It will further be recognized that epaper can be used to convey digital data according to essentially any known watermarking method including those detailed in the patents and applications incorporated by reference and is also suitable for conveying digital information in data glyph form.

When a consumer presents a Bedoop encoded object to a sensor and as a result of the link s thereby established purchases a product or service the revenue from that transaction may be shared with the participants who made it possible. In the case of a Bedoop encoded magazine ad some of the participants may include 1 the photographer or graphic designer who produced artwork used in the ad 2 the advertising agency whose creative talent led to the ad 3 the publisher of the magazine in which the consumer encountered the ad 4 the service provider s who provided the transport channel s between the consumer and the vendor and 5 the service provider who maintained the server that ultimately linked the Bedoop data to the vendor s web site.

Another use of the Bedoop technology detailed in the 104 application and other applications and patents of the present assignee is to control building access or facility access or room access etc. access through a combination of an ID card Bedoop technology and proximity detection technology.

The ID card can be a badge or the like having a steganographically encoded photograph of the bearer. The card further includes a proximity ID device such as an unpowered electronic circuit that is excited and detected by a radiant field from an associated proximity detector providing a unique signature identifying a particular individual.

The building can be provided with an image sensor such as a video camera or the like an associated Bedoop detection system and the proximity detector. When a user wearing the badge approaches the proximity detector signals the camera to capture image data. The Bedoop detection system identifies the badge photograph as conveying Bedoop data e.g. by clues as are described in the prior applications or without such aids and decodes same. The access control system then checks whether the badge ID discerned from the proximity sensor properly corresponds to the Bedoop data extracted from the photograph on the badge. If so access is granted if not the data is logged and an alarm is sounded.

By such arrangement premises security is increased. No longer can proximity based access badges be altered to substitute the picture of a different individual. If the photo is swapped the proximity system ID and the embedded photo data will not match flagging an unauthorized attempted access.

The same principles are applicable in many other contexts not limited to RF based proximity detection systems. For example the data decoded from the photograph can be compared against other forms of machine sensed personal identification. These include but are not limited to bar code IDs mag stripe ID cards smart cards etc.

As known from the prior applications there are a great number of techniques by which the encoding of Bedoop digital data can be performed. The present assignee s prior application Ser. No. 09 127 502 filed Jul. 31 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 345 104 for example shows techniques by which very fine lines can be printed on a medium to slightly change the medium s apparent tint while also conveying digital data. Commonly owned application Ser. No. 09 074 034 filed May 6 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 449 377 details how the contours of printed imagery can be adjusted to convey digital data. That technique can be applied to printed text characters as well as the line art imagery particularly considered. The assignee s U.S. Pat. No. 5 850 481 details how the surface of paper or other media can be textured to convey optically detectable binary data. The assignee s U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 841 886 5 809 160 and 5 862 260 detail various techniques for steganographically encoding photographs and other imagery.

Some watermarking techniques are based on changes made in the spatial domain others are based on changes made in transformed domains e.g. DCT wavelet . One example of the latter is shown in U.S. Pat. No. 5 930 369. Watermarking of printed text can be achieved by slight variations to character shape character kerning line spacing etc.

Data glyph technology as detailed in various patents to Xerox is usable in many of the applications detailed herein. Bar codes too may also be used.

The foregoing is just a gross under sampling of the large number of watermarking techniques. The artisan is presumed to be familiar with such art all of which is generally suitable for use in the applications detailed herein.

To provide a comprehensive disclosure without unduly lengthening this specification applicant incorporates by reference the patents and applications cited above except Ser. No. 09 571 422.

Having described and illustrated the principles of our work with reference to specific embodiments it will be recognized that the principles thereof can be implemented in many other different forms. Moreover the particular combinations of elements and features in the above detailed embodiments are exemplary only the interchanging and substitution of these teachings with teachings in the incorporated by reference applications are also contemplated.

