---

title: Systems and methods to receive information from a groupware client
abstract: A system may include reception of an internet electronic mail message associated with a standards-compliant groupware object, and conversion of the internet electronic mail message to a message associated with the standards-compliant groupware object and compliant with a Web service message interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08407297&OS=08407297&RS=08407297
owner: SAP AG
number: 08407297
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071022
---
Some embodiments relate to the integration of groupware with a business process platform. In particular some embodiments concern interactions between standards based groupware clients and enterprise software systems via standards based groupware objects and one or more Web service message interfaces.

Many business users use groupware clients e.g. Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes etc. for collaboration and communication. Business users may also utilize business applications for implementing business processes such as but not limited to the applications of SAP Business Suite . Such business applications typically execute within a business process platform having a dedicated user interface. Contemporaneous use of a groupware client and business applications therefore requires a user to switch between at least two user interfaces. Efficiencies may be gained by integrating a business process platform with groupware technologies in order to enable a user to access functionality of the business process platform using any standards based groupware client.

In this regard a user may choose from among several disparate standards based groupware clients depending upon the circumstances under which the user is working. For example a user may choose a Personal Digital Assistant PDA optimized groupware client when travelling but may prefer a richer desktop platform optimized groupware client when at the office. The user may also prefer in some circumstances to install extensions e.g. plug ins to his groupware client to enhance usability. A suitable groupware integration scenario may support groupware client functions that supplement commonly available groupware client functions.

Mobile business users are presented with two usage scenarios. In one instance an application server hosts online applications which are accessed by a client application e.g. browser proprietary client etc. for displaying user interfaces of the online applications. Use of these online applications requires a communication link that may be unavailable or sporadic and may also require non trivial configuration for establishing and securing the link. Offline applications on the other hand may utilize a framework e.g. SAP Mobile Infrastructure that provides periodic synchronization with a back end system. A user may therefore access an offline application without an active communication link to the back end system. Offline applications may be costly to develop and maintain and typically also require a mobile device to store some master data within a local persistence. This latter requirement imposes installation of a database as well as a component for managing access to the database.

Other business applications suffer due to their lack of integration with standards based groupware. Current solutions to track groupware objects representing electronic mail messages appointments contacts and or tasks within business process platforms require duplicative data entry and or rely on cumbersome interfaces.

For example business applications may be used to centrally track electronic mail messages passed between sales representatives and their customers in order to provide a complete overview of interactions with the customer. After exchanging an electronic mail with a customer a sales representative logs on to his CRM system and creates an electronic mail activity. The representative also inputs identifying information to describe the activity and uploads the electronic mail message for association with the created electronic mail activity.

Tracking of customer interactions within a CRM system may also include tracking customer visits by sales representatives. Such tracking may proceed similarly to that described above with respect to electronic mail activity. These customer visits are also tracked and entered into the user s groupware client either as appointments into his personal groupware calendar or meeting requests sent to the customer using functionality of the groupware client. The user must reflect any changes to the information in both the CRM system and the groupware client. If an appointment is scheduled in the groupware client while the CRM system is not available the user must remember to update all relevant information once the CRM system becomes available. If an appointment originates in the CRM system the user must reflect the appointment in his personal groupware calendar and send a corresponding invitation to the customer afterwards.

Business users require access to customer contact information to perform their business tasks. Contact information is stored in a back end system and can be accessed via a user interface of a suitable business application e.g. a CRM system running on a business process platform. Acquisition of the contact information therefore requires a dedicated user interface and connectivity with the business process platform.

When the user is offline and wants to contact a customer it is either impossible or inconvenient to log on to the business application to obtain the customer s electronic mail address or telephone number. Since business users also use groupware clients which provide for management of contact information as well as offline storage thereof a user prepares for the above situation by manually maintaining contact information on his groupware client for all of his customers. This approach can be duplicative time consuming and error prone. Moreover the approach does not address changes to contact information that may be reflected on the back end system.

Business users require efficient access to business reports. This access is typically restricted to users having access to an enterprise reporting user interface. The user logs on to the interface enters report selection criteria runs the report and saves the report locally. If the report is to be used remotely the report must first be transferred to a mobile device.

Request and approval scenarios offered by business applications may suffer from similar inefficiencies. For example in order to request a vacation a user first uses his groupware client to check his electronic calendar and the calendars of relevant coworkers. After deciding upon appropriate vacation days the user logs on to a Human Resource Management HRM system to submit a request for the vacation days. With respect to approvals an HRM system may notify a manager that a request is pending for approval. This notification may be sent via electronic mail. The manager must then log on to an approval system review the request and grant or deny the request.

Time reporting in conventional business scenarios may result in triple entry of business data. For example an appointment or other calendar entry may be generated in a groupware client and the data of the calendar entry is manually entered into a CRM system for tracking purposes as described above. The data of the calendar entry is then manually entered into a time reporting system in order to log the user s time.

According to some embodiments mail client may comprise any application capable of sending and receiving an internet electronic mail message. Such a message may comply with Request For Comments RFC 2822 Internet Message Format and may also comply with one or more extensions thereto e.g. RFC 2045 Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME Part One Format of Internet Message Bodies RFC 2046 Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME Part Two Media Types RFC 2049 Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME Part Five Conformance Criteria and Examples . The RFC 2822 standard specifies a syntax for text messages that are sent between computer users within the framework of electronic mail .

Mail client may also support the generation and attachment of one or more standards compliant groupware objects to an internet message. Such groupware objects include but are not limited to objects compliant with RFC 2445 Internet Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object Specification iCalendar and objects compliant with RFC 2426 vCard MIME Directory Profile. For purposes of the description below an internet electronic mail message will be considered a standards compliant groupware object as well as a carrier for transmission of one or more groupware objects including itself.

Mail client may comprise Microsoft Outlook Lotus Notes Mozilla Thunderbird Qualcomm Eudora Google Gmail or any other suitable application that is or becomes known. Mail client may also comprise any hardware suitable for executing the application including but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a PDA a cellular telephone a dedicated terminal and a dedicated handheld device.

As shown in mail client may transmit internet message to groupware adapter or receive internet message from groupware adapter . Groupware adapter may transmit internet message in response to receiving internet message from mail client mail client may transmit internet message in response to receiving message from groupware adapter or no causal relationship might exist between internet messages and . Some embodiments may provide for transmission of an internet message in only one direction between client and adapter .

Internet messages and are each associated with a groupware object. As described above internet messages and are themselves groupware objects with which they are associated. Additionally internet messages and may include one or more iCalendar objects compliant with RFC 2445 and vCard objects compliant with RFC 2426. An iCalendar attachment may refer to a calendar entry or to a task in some embodiments.

Mail client may transmit internet message to groupware adapter using standard protocols including but not limited to Simple Mail Transport Protocol SMTP and may receive internet message using Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP Simple Mail Access Protocol SMAP or other standard protocols. In the latter regard mail client may receive internet message from a mail server unshown that is associated with a recipient electronic mail address of internet message .

Similarly groupware adapter may transmit internet message and receive internet message using the aforementioned or other send receive protocols. Groupware adapter may include a mail server associated with a domain of a recipient electronic mail address of internet message or may receive internet message from such a mail server. In either case groupware adapter also includes a mail client to receive internet message . The mail client is associated with a local part of the recipient electronic mail address.

Groupware adapter may convert internet electronic mail message associated with a groupware object to Web service message associated with the groupware object. Generally a Web service is associated with a message interface and a Web service message complies with the message interface. The Web service message interface with which the converted message is to comply may be determined based on the local part of the recipient electronic mail address of internet electronic mail message .

According to some embodiments Web service message comprises an extensible Markup Language XML message within an XML Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP envelope. The Web service message interface may be defined by a Web Services Description Language WSDL or XML Schema Definition XSD description. Groupware adapter may use the message interface description to convert message to message .

Groupware adapter may also convert Web service message associated with a groupware object to internet electronic mail message associated with the groupware object. The Web service and or groupware object of Web service message may differ from the Web service and or groupware object of Web service message . Accordingly the message interface to which Web service message complies may differ from the message interface to which Web service message complies. Groupware adapter in some embodiments performs the above mentioned conversion in only one direction. In such embodiments a second groupware adapter may perform the conversion in the other direction.

Application platform may receive Web service message from groupware adapter . Application platform may implement the Web service with which Web service message is associated. More specifically application platform may comprise a process agent to receive Web service message based on the message interface with which message complies and to execute a business process based on the groupware object associated with message .

Application platform may transmit Web service message to groupware adapter . Some embodiments of application platform comprise a process agent to create a message associated with a standards compliant groupware object and compliant with a Web service message interface. Application platform may include business objects with which the aforementioned process agents interact to execute business processes.

Communication between groupware adapter and application platform may be facilitated by a framework to provide communication between application platform and disparate systems. For example the framework may provide dynamic routing of messages mapping of message contents propagation of authentication data and or other functions. The framework may allow application platform to communicate with a new system using an adapter associated with the new system. The framework may comprise but is not limited to SAP eXchange Infrastructure XI and the XI Adapter Framework .

Some embodiments of system allow a user to interact with a business process platform within a groupware working environment. The groupware working environment therefore serves as a user interface to the business process platform. Some embodiments may also or alternatively provide a lightweight option for integrating business partners based solely on an assumption that systems of each business partner adhere to internet electronic mail message and groupware object standards. Other benefits of various embodiments will become evident from the foregoing description.

Process and all other processes mentioned herein may be embodied in processor executable program code read from one or more of a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD ROM a Zip disk and a magnetic tape and then stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. In some embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with program code for implementation of processes according to some embodiments. Embodiments are therefore not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

Initially at S an internet message associated with a standards compliant groupware object is received. The internet message may comprise an internet electronic mail message according to RFC 2822. The internet message may also comply with RFC 2045 RFC 2046 RFC 2049 and or other extensions to RFC 2822.

According to some embodiments the internet message received at S includes one or more attachments. The one or more attachments may comprise one or more standards compliant groupware objects such as an iCalendar or vCard objects. The attachments may comprise another internet electronic mail message in some embodiments.

The internet message may be received using POP3 IMAP SMAP or other standard protocols. The internet message may be received from a mail server associated with a domain of a recipient electronic mail address of the internet message or from the internet in a case that process is executed by an element including such a mail server. In a case that groupware adapter of system receives the internet message groupware adapter includes a mail client that is associated with a local part of the recipient electronic mail address of the internet message.

The internet message is converted to a We service message in S. The Web service message is associated with the standards compliant groupware object with which the received internet message is associated. The Web service message is compliant with a message interface associated with the Web service.

The Web service message may comprise an XML message within an SOAP envelope and the Web service message interface may be defined by a WSDL or XSD description. According to some embodiments of S groupware adapter uses methods of the Web service message interface description to convert the received internet message to the Web service message.

Some embodiments of S comprise converting the internet electronic mail message to a Web service message associated with a generic groupware message interface. Next the Web service message is mapped to a second Web service message interface based on the local part of the recipient electronic mail address of the received internet electronic mail message. The Web service message is then provided to a particular process agent of an application platform that implements the associated Web service. Some examples of the foregoing are provided below.

Two or more of the depicted elements of system may be located remote from one another and may communicate with one another via a network and or a dedicated connection. Each displayed element of system may comprise any number of hardware and or software elements suitable to provide the functions described herein some of which are located remote from each other. Other topologies may be used in conjunction with other embodiments.

Mail clients may comprise any applications for transmitting and receiving internet electronic mail messages including but not limited to those listed above. As also described above with respect to mail client mail clients may execute on any suitable software and hardware platforms. Mail clients also support the generation and maintenance of groupware objects .

Mail clients provide for the attachment of groupware objects to an internet electronic mail message as well as extraction therefrom. For example assignment of attendees to an appointment may cause creation of an internet electronic mail message with an attached iCalendar object reception of an electronic mail message having an attached iCalendar object causes display of a meeting request and contact information may be exported to a vCard object that may be subsequently attached to an electronic mail message.

Usability plug in may provide an extension of the base functionality of one or more mail clients in order to facilitate associated usage scenarios examples of which will be provided below. Moreover mail clients may support HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP communication for Uniform Resource Locator URL based navigation to a Web server.

Mail clients may transmit internet electronic mail messages to mail server using SMTP but embodiments are not limited thereto. Conversely mail clients may receive internet electronic mail messages from mail server using POP3 or IMAP. Mail server may be associated with one or more internet domains. Accordingly mail server receives internet electronic mail messages having recipient electronic mail addresses which include the domains with which mail server is associated.

Each of mailboxes of mail server is associated with a local part e.g. a username of a domain with which mail server is associated. One of mailboxes therefore stores electronic mail messages having recipient electronic mail addresses which specify the local part and domain associated with the mailbox . Mailboxes may be accessed by adapter framework .

Adapter framework includes mail adapter and groupware adapter module . Adapter framework may comprise the SAP XI Adapter Framework mentioned above. According to some embodiments adapter framework uses adapters to facilitate communication between a business process platform and separate systems associated with each of the adapters. Each adapter in turn may operate in conjunction with one or more adapter modules. Adapter framework may therefore include more adapters and adapter modules than illustrated in .

Mail adapter may exchange electronic mail messages with mail server and translate between the internet message format of RFC 2822 and a message format of groupware adapter module . More specifically mail adapter includes mail protocol conversion module for receiving electronic mail messages from mail server and converting the received messages from the wire format to the aforementioned internet message format using POP3 IMAP module . Mail protocol conversion module also includes SMTP module for converting messages from the internet message format to the wire format to the aforementioned and transmitting the converted messages to mail server .

Mail adapter also includes MIME msg conversion module . Decomposition module of conversion module converts a received message in the internet message format to an intermediate message based on RFC 2045 and or RFC 2046. Decomposition module may also perform certificate verification if the received message complies with secure MIME S MIME standards.

According to RFC 2045 and RFC 2046 the body of the received internet electronic mail message may include a nested structure of headers and attachments. In some embodiments decomposition module resolves only the body the header elements and a highest node level of any attachment tree. Decomposition module then composes the intermediate message as a SOAP message having a main payload comprising the header elements and body and a SOAP attachment of the highest level nodes of any attachment tree. The SOAP attachment may include a nested structure if the attachment tree comprises a multi level structure.

Groupware adapter module includes message transformation module to transform SOAP messages to and from the intermediate message format described above. According to some embodiments message transformation module exchanges intermediate SOAP messages with mail adapter via an Application Programming Interface API . Message transformation module includes groupware message mapper electronic mail message handler iCalendar handler and vCard handler .

Groupware message mapper determines a groupware object of interest based on a SOAP attachment of an intermediate message received from mail adapter . The groupware object of interest may comprise an iCalendar or vCard object or an electronic mail object if no SOAP attachment exists. Groupware message mapper invokes one of handlers and based on the determined groupware object of interest.

Each of handlers and may include an internal runtime representation of its associated groupware standard and methods to import or export the internal representation to string or XML. For an incoming intermediate message received from mail adapter iCalendar handler may be invoked to import an iCalendar string of the intermediate message to an internal representation and to export the internal representation to XML. Handler then employs the W3C Document Object Model DOM to create an XML tree based on the exported XML.

Using the XML tree and other information from the intermediate message groupware message mapper creates an XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface. According to some embodiments the message type is one of eMail CalendarEvent GroupwareContact and GroupwareTask. Operation of mail adapter and groupware adapter module to process incoming messages and outgoing messages will be described in more detailed below.

Integration server routes messages to and from appropriate interfaces of application platform . Integration server may also provide mapping of incoming and outgoing messages according to pre configured mappings. SAP XI provides an integration server suitable for use in conjunction with some embodiments.

Application platform may receive a Web service message from integration server . In this regard application platform includes process agent framework to support process agents for implementing message interfaces i.e. providing Web services such as inbound process agent . The received Web service message may be routed to inbound process agent based on the message interface with which the message complies. The routing may also be based on the message type. For example one inbound process agent may implement a generic groupware Web service for messages of type eMail while a second inbound process agent may implement the generic groupware Web service for messages of type CalendarEvent . Inbound process agent in some embodiments may receive Web service messages directly from mail clients via usability plug in .

Inbound process agent implements message interfaces of Web services by communicating with Enterprise Service Framework ESF via process agent framework . ESF provides an API through which framework may cause instantiation of one or more of business objects . Each of business objects may encapsulate data and related methods of business logic that describes a business process or task. ESF may comprise a Service Oriented Architecture SOA provided by SAP AG.

User interface may comprise a software application that communicates with application platform via proprietary interfaces. Accordingly mail clients provide an alternative user interface to application platform . In yet another alternative user interface may comprise a Web server for allowing mail clients to access Web pages generated by user interface .

Process agent framework may receive resulting information from ESF . This information may be received via the aforementioned API and may be passed to outbound process agent . Outbound process agent generates a Web service message based on the information. The Web service message may comply with the message interface implemented by inbound process agent but embodiments are not limited thereto.

Application platform transmits the Web service message to integration server . Integration server and adapter framework thereafter operate in a direction reverse to that described above to map the Web service message to a different message interface if necessary generate an intermediate XML SOAP message based on the Web service message and any attachments convert the intermediate message to an internet electronic mail message and transmit the internet electronic mail message to a mail server associated with one of mail clients . Some embodiments of the foregoing will be described in detail below.

Mail adapter polls mail server at S. The polling may be performed by mail protocol conversion module using any suitable protocol. Mail server stores internet electronic mail messages having recipient electronic mail addresses which include the domains with which mail server is associated. S may comprise polling those mailboxes which are associated with a local part that is associated with application platform .

For example mail server may receive and store all electronic mail messages directed to local part company.com. Moreover one of mailboxes may store all electronic mail messages directed to track.activity company.com. Local part track.activity has been preconfigured to be associated with a Web service message interface of application platform . Accordingly S may comprise polling the one of mailboxes .

An internet electronic mail message is received from mail server at S in response to the polling. In some embodiments mail protocol conversion module receives the electronic mail message and converts the received message from the wire format to internet message format RFC 2822.

The electronic mail message is converted from the internet electronic mail message format to a SOAP message with attachments at S. Decomposition module of conversion module may convert the message based on RFC 2045 and or RFC 2046 according to some embodiments of S. For example decomposition module may compose the SOAP message having a main payload comprising the header elements and body of the internet electronic mail message and a SOAP attachment of the highest level nodes of any attachment tree of the internet electronic mail message. The SOAP attachment may include a nested structure if the attachment tree comprises a multi level structure.

The SOAP message is fragmented at S. S through S illustrate sub processes that may comprise fragmentation of the SOAP message. More particularly S S and S may be performed respectively by iCalendar handler vCard handler and electronic mail message handler . Groupware message mapper determines which of handlers to invoke based on the SOAP attachment of the message to be fragmented.

For example iCalendar handler may be invoked to import an iCalendar string of the SOAP attachment to an internal representation and to export the internal representation to an XML fragment at S. Similarly vCard handler may be invoked to import a vCard string of SOAP attachment to an internal representation and to export the internal representation to an XML fragment at S.

Using the XML fragments generated by handlers groupware message mapper composes an XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface. According to some embodiments the message type is one of eMailNotification CalendarEventNotification GroupwareContactNotification and GroupwareTaskNotification.

Current groupware object standards allow for an attachment structure as depicted in . in turn illustrates process that may be used to execute S through S according to some embodiments and in view of the structure. Process may be performed by groupware message mapper in some embodiments.

Initially it is determined whether the SOAP message received from mail adapter includes any attachments. If not the groupware object of interest is an internet electronic mail message and electronic mail handler is called at S. Handler returns an XML fragment based on the header structure and body located in the main payload of the SOAP message and a SOAP XML message is composed at S in compliance with a generic groupware Web service message interface. The message is associated with the type eMailNotification according to some embodiments.

Flow proceeds from S to S if the SOAP message received from mail adapter includes any attachments. At S it is determined whether the message includes at least one iCalendar attachment. If not it is determined at S whether the message includes at least one vCard attachment. Flow proceeds to S and continues as described above if it is determined at S that the message does not include at least one vCard attachment.

vCard handler is called at S if the message includes at least one vCard attachment. Handler executes its methods to return an XML fragment based on the vCard attachment. Next at S a SOAP XML message is composed in compliance with the generic groupware Web service message interface. The message may be associated with the type GroupwareContactNotification.

Flow proceeds to S to call iCalendar handler if the determination at S is affirmative. is called at S if the message includes at least one vCard attachment. The methods of iCalendar handler return an XML fragment based on the iCalendar attachment of the SOAP message. Next at S it is determined whether the iCalendar attachment is associated with a VEVENT block as depicted in . If so a SOAP XML message of the type CalendarEventNotification is composed at S in compliance with the generic groupware Web service message interface.

If the iCalendar attachment is not associated with a VEVENT block it is determined at S whether the iCalendar attachment is associated with a VTODO block as depicted in . If the iCalendar attachment is associated with a VTODO block a SOAP XML message in compliance with the generic groupware Web service message interface is composed at S. The SOAP XML message is associated with the type GroupwareTaskNotification. If it is determined at S that the iCalendar attachment is not associated with a VTODO block flow proceeds to S and continues as described above to compose a SOAP XML message in compliance with the generic groupware Web service message interface and of the type eMailNotification.

Returning to process the Web service message may be routed by integration server according to a pre defined configuration. The Web service message may be mapped to an application specific Web service message interface at S. For example the electronic mail address track.activity company.com may be associated with the generic groupware Web service described above. Electronic mail messages sent to this address should be processed by the generic groupware Web service. Since adapter module outputs a message that already complies with the message interface of the generic groupware Web service no mapping of the message is required.

On the other hand the electronic mail address update.contact company.com may be associated with an application specific groupware Web service and therefore an electronic mail message sent to this address should be processed by the application specific groupware Web service. However adapter module will output a message based on the electronic mail message that complies with the message interface of the generic groupware Web service. Accordingly the message that is output by adapter module should be mapped at S to the message interface of the application specific groupware Web service based on pre defined mappings.

The channel interface of the message may be determined by integration server at S. The channel interface may be determined based on the Web service with which the message is associated and may further depend upon the message type. In this regard the channel interface may determine the inbound process agent that is to receive the message. The inbound process agent associated with the determined channel interface receives the message at S.

Mail adapter may comprise a standard mail adapter provided by SAP XI . According to some embodiments the above described functionality of mail adapter and groupware adapter module is combined into a single groupware adapter. Such a single adapter may provide mail related functionality in addition to that described above.

For example polling of mail server may result in the reception of electronic mail messages from different users by a single thread. According to some embodiments additional mail related functionality may ensure that each electronic mail message is handled by a single thread transaction on a per user message basis.

Groupware adapter according to some embodiments may perform all of the functions attributed above to mail adapter and groupware adapter module . Groupware adapter polls the mailbox of mail server and in response receives all new electronic mail messages stored in the mailbox. Groupware adapter saves the received electronic mail messages in buffer which may be a component of adapter framework or accessible thereby.

Upon confirmation of the saved electronic mail messages groupware adapter triggers a deletion of the received electronic mail messages from the mailbox of mail server . Transaction thread is started after the deletion.

Transaction thread obtains one electronic mail message from buffer determines a user based on a certificate of the message and validates the certificate. Transaction thread then logs on to user management engine of an infrastructure such as SAP XI causing user management engine to switch to the user. Next transaction thread converts the internet electronic mail message to a Web service message in any of the manners described herein.

The message is sent to messaging system of the infrastructure along with principal data used for authentication. Messaging system passes the message and the principal data to application platform . The principal data may be used to provide the user with access to services of application platform . The principal data may comprise any data based on which application platform may perform an authentication action. Non exhaustive examples of principal data include a username password e.g. basic mode or digest mode a signature and associated X.509 certificate and a signed assertion e.g. an SAP logon ticket a Security Assertion Markup Language assertion .

Application platform authenticates the user and processes the message using the Web service with which the message complies. In the meantime transaction thread logs the user off of user management engine and deletes the subject electronic mail message from buffer .

The groupware adapter polls mail server at S and receives a next electronic mail message from mail server at S if it is determined at S that mail server stores any unreceived messages. Buffer may comprise a database table of previously received electronic mail messages with an index on subject and sender. A retrieve is attempted on buffer at S using the subject and sender of the mail message received at S. If the retrieve is determined to be successful at S the full content of the received mail message is compared with the electronic mail messages retrieved from buffer at S.

Flow then proceeds from S to S if it is determined that the received electronic mail message is not identical to any of the electronic mail messages retrieved from buffer . A buffer manager determines the active buffer at S and saves the received electronic mail message in the active buffer and flags it as new at S. For the present example it will be assumed that buffer is the active buffer initially. Flow returns to S from S and continues as described above. Flow returns to S directly from S i.e. without storing the electronic mail message if it is determined that the received electronic mail message is identical to any of the electronic mail messages retrieved from buffer .

If the retrieve is determined to be unsuccessful at S a second retrieve is attempted on buffer at S using the subject and sender of the mail message received at S. If the second retrieve is determined to be unsuccessful at S flow proceeds to S and continues to save the received electronic mail message in the active buffer i.e. buffer at S.

The full content of the received mail message is compared with the electronic mail messages retrieved from buffer at S if the second retrieve results in any electronic mail messages. Flow continues to S if it is determined that the received electronic mail message is not identical to any of the electronic mail messages retrieved from buffer . Conversely flow returns directly to S i.e. without storing the electronic mail message if the received electronic mail message is identical to any of the electronic mail messages retrieved from buffer .

S et seq. determine the previous time period over which duplicate checking occurs. In this regards flow cycles between S and S until a buffer lifetime e.g. one week has expired. Once the lifetime has expired the entire table of the inactive buffer is deleted at S. The inactive table is then set to active at S and the active table is set to inactive at S. Accordingly a buffer lifetime of one week allows incoming electronic mail messages to be checked against the previous two weeks of electronic mail messages.

A groupware adapter according to some embodiments may pass the full content of all electronic mail headers to an integration server application platform. Conventional implementations of a mail adapter may lack this functionality.

Initially outbound process agent transmits a Web service message to integration server at S. The Web service message may be transmitted in response to a Web service message received by inbound process agent or in response to another triggering event such as but not limited to an elapsed time a current date and time or a change to a data value. Various embodiments in which outbound process agent transmits a Web service message are described below.

The transmitted Web service message may comply with any message interface described herein. The interface with which the message complies is determined at S by integration server . If the interface is an application specific Web service message interface the Web service message may be mapped at S to the generic groupware object message interface expected by groupware adapter module . The Web service message is then routed by integration server at S according to a pre defined configuration.

The Web service message comprises a SOAP XML message that complies with a generic groupware message interface and is associated with a groupware object. Groupware adapter module receives the SOAP message at S and fragments the message at S. For example any attachments to the message that are not associated with groupware objects are first identified. Next one of handlers is invoked based on the type of the Web service message.

As mentioned above a generic groupware message interface according to some embodiments may specify the following message types eMailNotification CalendarEventNotification GroupwareContactNotification and GroupwareTaskNotification. Accordingly electronic mail handler is invoked if the message is of type eMailNotification iCalendar handler is invoked if the message is of type CalendarEventNotification or GroupwareTaskNotification and vCard handler is invoked if the message is of type GroupwareContactNotification.

Each of handlers includes methods to convert an XML fragment of the received SOAP message to an internal representation and to convert the internal representation to a string corresponding to an attachment type. Such a conversion is performed at S S or S depending on the determined message type. In this regard the iCalendar and vCard standards may require fields that are not provided by outbound process agent . These fields may be generated at S or S respectively. S and S may also include creation of an internal MIME structure if nested attachments are required because mail adapter may create the attachment headers only for the highest node level.

An intermediate SOAP message such as described above is composed at S. Composition may comprise attaching the attachments produced by handlers to a SOAP message in which the main payload represents a header structure and body of a mail message and the attachments represent the MIME attachments. The SOAP message also includes a recipient electronic mail address that may be determined from fields of an iCalendar attachment or from fields of a corresponding inbound message.

According to some embodiments S may also include additional operations to support various additions to a generic electronic mail message including a standards based groupware object. Examples of such additional operations include URL generation for navigation from the groupware object into application platform or for additional Web service calls generation of voting button support and attachment of text templates e.g. iForms .

Mail adapter converts the SOAP message with attachments to an internet electronic mail message at S. The main payload of the SOAP message is mapped to the header and body of the internet electronic mail message and composition module converts the attachments into representations based on RFC 2045 and or RFC 2046 according to some embodiments. The latter operation may include the handling of digital signatures.

The electronic mail message is converted from internet message format RFC 2822 to the wire format at S. Module performs the conversion and sends the electronic mail message to mail server via SMTP. Mail server then routes the electronic mail message to a mail server associated with a recipient electronic mail address of the electronic mail message.

Some embodiments of the foregoing features may provide a powerful and efficient system for integrating groupware clients with a business process platform. More specifically the ability to interact with groupware related Web services via electronic mail addresses presents unlimited possibilities for increased user productivity. Usage scenarios according to some embodiments and demonstrating such increased productivity will be described below.

As described in the present Background it may be desirable to centrally track electronic mail messages within a business process platform. Some embodiments provide an efficient system for such tracking.

User interface includes fields and for inputting one or more recipient electronic mail addresses subject and body . The recipient electronic mail addresses may be entered into fields and manually or inserted from a contacts list of the groupware mail client that may be accessed through respective buttons and . If an input recipient electronic mail address corresponds to a contact from the contact list the groupware mail client may display the name of the contact instead of the electronic mail address.

The user has input the electronic mail address of an intended recipient in field . The user has also input track.activity company.com into recipient electronic mail address field . In the present example the electronic mail address track.activity company.com is associated with a groupware object tracking Web service provided by a CRM system or other business process platform to which the user has access. By inputting track.activity company.com into recipient electronic mail address field the user indicates an intention to track the created electronic mail message in the platform. Upon user selection of Send button the electronic mail message is sent to the intended recipient and to the platform using standard protocols.

The user may select one or more business objects from window . Accordingly upon selection of Send button the message is sent to the intended recipient and to the business process platform. The message will include an indication of the selected business objects within custom fields supported by electronic mail standards and or within other fields. The indication may be used by the groupware tracking Web service to categorize and track the electronic mail message.

An internet electronic mail message is initially received at S. According to some examples the internet electronic mail message is received from a mailbox storing all electronic mail messages directed to track.activity company.com. In some embodiments mail protocol conversion module of system receives the electronic mail message and converts the electronic mail message from the wire format to internet message format RFC 2822 at S.

The electronic mail message is converted from the internet electronic mail message format to a SOAP message at S. For example decomposition module may compose a SOAP message having a main payload comprising the header elements and body of the internet electronic mail message. No SOAP attachment is created at S because the received internet electronic mail message does not include any attachments in the present example.

The SOAP message is fragmented at S. Based on process of electronic mail handler may be invoked at S to import an electronic mail string of the SOAP message payload to an internal representation and to export the internal representation to an XML fragment. The XML fragment is used at S to compose an XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface. According to some embodiments the message is of type eMailNotification.

The Web service message is received at an inbound process agent implementing a generic groupware Web service at S. According to the present example the electronic mail address track.activity company.com is associated with the generic groupware Web service. Since the received electronic mail message was sent to this address and the Web service message already complies with the message interface of the generic groupware Web service no interface mapping of the Web service message is required prior to S.

The inbound process agent creates a business object representing an electronic mail activity based on the Web service message at S. A sender electronic mail address associated with the message is used to identify the user for tracking and for verifying privileges. A digital certificate associated with the message may be used to authenticate the user as well.

In a case that the electronic mail message received at S was associated with one or more business objects as described with respect to the business object created at S may be associated with these one or more business objects. S is intended to track the received electronic mail message in the business process platform therefore any method for doing so that is or becomes known may be performed at S.

According to some embodiments the electronic mail message received at S may have been forwarded to the track.activity company.com electronic mail address using the forwarding functionality of a standard groupware mail client. The forwarded electronic mail message may comprise an electronic mail message that was received by a user and that the user would like to track in a CRM system or other business process platform.

User interface illustrates the second user interface according to one method. User interface is similar to user interface of but includes attachment including the electronic mail message shown in user interface . The address track.activity company.com has been input as a recipient mail address because the user wishes to track the original electronic mail message in the business platform.

User interface illustrates the second user interface according to a second method. The electronic mail message to be forwarded is shown in the body of the message of user interface . Again the address track.activity company.com has been input as a recipient mail address because the user wishes to track the original electronic mail message in the business platform.

The electronic mail messages of user interfaces and may be sent and tracked as described with respect to process . However additional processing may be required to determine the sender of the original electronic mail message so that the message may be properly tracked e.g. associated with an appropriate business partner . For the message of user interface the attachment may be parsed into an XML fragment including header information at S and the sender may be determined therefrom at S. In the case of the message of user interface an inbound process agent may parse the message body at S to determine the original sender.

According to some embodiments electronic mail messages sent from a CRM system or other platform may be sent to a groupware client for synchronization. Process provides some details of such a process in some embodiments. For example an outbound process agent may expose the electronic mail messages via Web service messages. The Web service messages may then be converted to outgoing internet mail messages for receipt by the groupware client of the sender or another groupware client. Other examples of transmitting a groupware object from a business process platform to a groupware client are provided below.

The electronic mail address track.activity company.com has been input into recipient electronic mail address field . Again the electronic mail address track.activity company.com is assumed to be associated with a groupware object tracking Web service provided by a CRM system or other business process platform to which the user has access. The user may select Send button to send the electronic mail message to the platform using standard protocols. User interface and any other user interface described herein may include features such as Select Business Objects button of user interface to associate one or more business objects with an electronic mail message and or its attachments.

Process of may be performed by a business process platform in response to an electronic mail message as depicted in . The internet electronic mail message including the iCalendar attachment is received at S from a mailbox storing all electronic mail messages directed to track.activity company.com. Mail protocol conversion module of system may receive the electronic mail message and convert the electronic mail message from the wire format to internet message format RFC 2822 at S.

The electronic mail message is converted from the internet electronic mail message format to a SOAP message with a SOAP attachment at S. For example decomposition module may resolve the body the header elements and a highest node level of the attachment tree. Decomposition module then composes a SOAP message having a main payload comprising the header elements and body and a SOAP attachment of the highest level nodes of the attachment tree.

The SOAP message is fragmented at S. Returning to process of it is noted that iCalendar handler will be invoked at S because the SOAP message includes an iCalendar attachment. iCalendar handler imports an electronic mail string of the SOAP attachment to an internal representation and exports the internal representation to an XML fragment.

The XML fragment is used at S to compose an XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface. Since the attachment represents a task a VTODO block is found at S of process and the composed message is of type GroupwareTaskNotification.

The Web service message is received at an inbound process agent implementing a generic groupware Web service at S. Since the received electronic mail message was sent to the electronic mail address associated with the generic groupware Web service and the Web service message complies with the message interface of the generic groupware Web service no interface mapping of the Web service message is required prior to S.

The inbound process agent creates a business object representing a task activity based on the Web service message at S. As described above a sender electronic mail address associated with the message may be used to identify the user for tracking and for verifying privileges. A digital certificate associated with the message may also be used to authenticate the user.

Some embodiments provide for tracking of calendar events within a business process platform using a groupware mail client. Such calendar events may include work related events customer meetings scheduled by a user meetings scheduled by a customer and or meetings scheduled by the business process platform.

The user has input the mail address track.activity company.com into recipient electronic mail address field . As in the prior examples the electronic mail address track.activity company.com is associated with a groupware object tracking Web service provided by a CRM system or other business process platform to which the user has access. The user therefore would like to create and track an appointment activity associated with the iCalendar object in the platform.

The user may select Send button to send the electronic mail message and the iCalendar attachment to the platform using standard protocols. The electronic mail message and or the iCalendar attachment may include indications of the contacts and categories associated with the iCalendar attachment. These indications may assist in creation of a corresponding business object in the platform.

User interface of is identical to user interface but is used to request a meeting as well as to submit a calendar event to the business process platform. In this regard field includes an electronic mail address of a customer as well as mail address track.activity company.com. Selection of Send button will cause the groupware client to send the electronic mail message including the iCalendar attachment to the platform using standard protocols.

User interface may be used to forward a received meeting request i.e. iCalendar object to a CRM system. As shown a meeting request was received from Frank Jones and will be forwarded as an iCalendar object attached to an electronic mail message to mail address track.activity company.com. User interface includes field for specifying additional identifying information that may be used by the CRM system to generate a related appointment activity.

Next at S the electronic mail message is converted from the internet electronic mail message format to a SOAP message with a SOAP attachment. Conversion may include resolving the body of the electronic mail message the header elements of the electronic mail message and a highest node level of the attachment tree. A SOAP message is then composed to include a main payload comprising the body and the header elements and a SOAP attachment of the highest level nodes of the attachment tree.

The SOAP attachment is fragmented to an XML fragment at S. With respect to process of iCalendar handler may be invoked at S because the SOAP attachment comprises an iCalendar attachment. iCalendar handler therefore imports an electronic mail string of the SOAP attachment to an internal representation and exports the internal representation to an XML fragment.

An XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface is composed at S based on the XML fragment. The attachment includes a VEVENT block therefore in accordance with S of process the composed message is of type CalendarEventNotification.

The Web service message is received at S at an inbound process agent implementing the generic groupware Web service. Again since the received electronic mail message was sent to the electronic mail address associated with the generic groupware Web service and the Web service message complies with the message interface of the generic groupware Web service no interface mapping of the Web service message is required prior to S.

The inbound process agent creates a business object at S representing an appointment activity based on the Web service message. The business object may include or otherwise reference details of the associated calendar event specified in various fields of user interfaces or . For example in the case of user interface the business partner associated with the business object is determined from the Subject field of the electronic mail message. In the case of user interface an associated business partner is determined based on the recipient mail address of the electronic mail message. With respect to user interface the business partner is determined based on the meeting organizer specified by the iCalendar object.

An appointment activity is generated in a CRM system at S. The appointment activity may be generated manually using user interface of system or may be automatically generated by platform based on business rules and associated trigger events.

Generation of the appointment activity causes an outbound process agent to expose the appointment activity via a Web service message at S. The Web service message is associated with the appointment activity complies with a generic groupware message interface and is of message type CalendarEventNotification. Accordingly iCalendar handler is invoked at S to convert an XML fragment of the received Web service message to an internal representation and to convert the internal representation to a string corresponding to an iCalendar attachment. Any fields required by the iCalendar standard that are not provided in the Web service message may also be generated at S.

An intermediate SOAP message is composed at S by attaching the iCalendar attachment to a SOAP message in which the main payload represents a header structure and body of a mail message and the attachment is a SOAP attachment. The intermediate SOAP message also includes a recipient electronic mail address that may be determined from fields of the iCalendar attachment.

Mail adapter may convert the SOAP message with attachments to an internet electronic mail message at S. The main payload of the SOAP message including the recipient electronic mail address may be mapped to the header and body of the internet electronic mail message and composition module may convert the SOAP attachment into a MIME attachment i.e. a groupware iCalendar object based on RFC 2045 and or RFC 2046 according to some embodiments.

At S the electronic mail message is converted from internet message format RFC 2822 to the wire format and is sent to a mail server via SMTP. Mail server for example may then route the electronic mail message to a mail server associated with the recipient electronic mail address of the electronic mail message.

Time recording may be facilitated through use of a groupware client according to some embodiments. For example a groupware calendar event may be created to represent time spent on a particular project. illustrates creation of such a calendar event.

User interface of has been manipulated to create a calendar event associated with time spent on a particular project. The electronic mail address record.time company.com is entered into recipient electronic mail address field . It will be assumed that this address is associated with a time recording Web service provided by a CRM system or other business process platform to which the user has access. The time recording Web service may require an identifier of the project for which the time is to be recorded.

The project may be identified in subject field body contacts field or categories field . User interface also includes Select Project ID button . Selection of button causes display of window including a list of Project IDs. Recently used Project IDs may be displayed at the top of the list. Button may generated by a usability plug in that extends the standard functionality of the groupware mail client. In operation button may initiate a process allowing the mail client to communicate directly with an inbound process agent of an application platform as shown in . The communication may comprise a request for and a reception of the list of Project IDs shown in window .

The user may select Send button to send a corresponding electronic mail message with an iCalendar attachment to a business process platform implementing the time recording Web service. The electronic mail message and or the iCalendar attachment include information specifying the project for which time is to be recorded. illustrates process which may be performed by the platform in response to transmission of the electronic mail message.

The internet electronic mail message including the attached iCalendar object is received at S. As previously described the message may be received from a mailbox storing all electronic mail messages directed to record.time company.com and may be converted from the wire format to the internet message format at S. The electronic mail message is then converted from the internet electronic mail message format to a SOAP message with a SOAP attachment at S.

The conversion at S may include resolving the body of the electronic mail message the header elements of the electronic mail message and a highest node level of the attachment tree. The SOAP message is then composed to include the body and the header elements in its main payload and a SOAP attachment of the highest level nodes of the attachment tree. An XML fragment is generated by iCalendar handler based on the SOAP attachment at S.

Next at S an XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface is composed based on the XML fragment. By virtue of interface used to create the electronic mail message and the iCalendar object the attachment includes a VEVENT block and therefore the composed message is of type CalendarEventNotification. In some embodiments adapter module outputs the generic groupware Web service message to integration server at S.

The generic groupware Web service message is mapped at S to an application specific Web service message interface based on a recipient electronic mail address of the received electronic mail message. In this regard the electronic mail address record.time company.com is associated with an application specific groupware Web service. An electronic mail message sent to this electronic mail address is therefore to be processed by the application specific groupware Web service. Since adapter module outputs a message that complies with the generic groupware Web service message interface at S the message that is output by adapter module is mapped to the message interface of the application specific groupware Web service at S based on pre defined mappings.

In addition the application specific groupware Web service message is received by an inbound process agent corresponding to the application specific groupware Web service at S. The inbound process agent then operates at S to provide the application specific groupware Web service. For example the inbound process agent determines relevant information from the message e.g. user project duration etc. and instantiates a business object to record the time in association with the project.

Acquisition of contact information stored in a back end system may also be facilitated by some embodiments. Some embodiments also allow synchronization of contact information between a back end system and a groupware client and or persistence of contact information within the groupware client.

Process of may be executed to transmit contact information stored in business objects of a business process platform to a groupware client via an electronic mail message such as that illustrated in . At S a system of the business process platform e.g. a CRM system determines to initially load a groupware client of a user with a set of contact information associated with the user. This determination may be triggered by an indication that the user is a new employee by an indication that the user has received a new computing device or by any other suitable indication. Alternatively an update to contact information associated with the user may be detected at S. The detected update may have been initiated through a user interface of the system.

An outbound process agent exposes the relevant contact information i.e. the initial load or the updated contact information via a Web service message at S. The Web service message is associated with the contact information complies with a generic groupware message interface and is of message type GroupwareContactNotification. The Web service message also includes an electronic mail address of the user. Due to the message type vCard handler is invoked at S to convert an XML fragment of the received Web service message to an internal representation and to convert the internal representation to a string corresponding to a vCard attachment.

Next at S an intermediate SOAP message is composed by attaching the vCard attachment as a SOAP attachment to a SOAP message. The main payload of the SOAP message represents a header structure of a mail message including the recipient electronic mail address and a body of a mail message. The SOAP message with attachment is then converted to an internet electronic mail message at S. The main payload of the SOAP message including the recipient electronic mail address may be mapped to the header and body of the internet electronic mail message and the vCard attachment is converted into a MIME attachment i.e. a groupware vCard object according to some embodiments.

The electronic mail message is converted from internet message format RFC 2822 to the wire format at S and is sent via SMTP to a mail server. The electronic mail message is then routed to a mail server associated with the recipient electronic mail address of the electronic mail message. The user may access the electronic mail message using a groupware client and import associated contact information as described with respect to . Advantageously the imported contact information may be accessed by the groupware client even if no network connection is available i.e. the groupware client is offline .

User Interface of shows an electronic mail message including attachment . Attachment represents contact information and according to current standards is a vCard object in compliance with RFC 2426. Attachment may represent contact information stored in a local persistence of the groupware client.

The electronic mail address track.activity company.com has been input into recipient electronic mail address field . Since the electronic mail address track.activity company.com is associated with a groupware object tracking Web service provided by a CRM system or other business process platform the user may select Send button to send the electronic mail message and attachment to the platform using standard protocols. According to some embodiments the groupware client is configured to generate an electronic mail message as shown in each time contact information is updated in the local persistence.

Process of may be performed by a business process platform in response to sending an electronic mail message as shown in . The internet electronic mail message including the vCard object is received at S from a mailbox associated with the electronic mail address track.activity company.com. The electronic mail message is converted at S from the internet electronic mail message format to a SOAP message having a SOAP attachment. For example decomposition module may compose a SOAP message at S having a main payload comprising the header elements and body of the electronic mail message and a SOAP attachment of the highest level nodes of the attachment tree.

Next at S vCard handler imports an electronic mail string of the SOAP attachment to an internal representation and exports the internal representation to an XML fragment. The XML fragment is used at S to compose an XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface. The composed message is of type GroupwareContactNotification.

An inbound process agent implementing a generic groupware Web service receives the Web service message at S. No interface mapping of the Web service message is required prior to S because the received electronic mail message was sent to the electronic mail address associated with the generic groupware Web service and the Web service message composed at S complies with the message interface of the generic groupware Web service.

The inbound process agent creates or updates a business object representing contact information based on the Web service message at S. The inbound process agent may use a sender electronic mail address associated with the message to identify the user for tracking and for verifying privileges. The inbound process agent may also use a digital certificate associated with the message to authenticate the user.

User interface of presents an electronic mail message sent to a user. The electronic mail message was sent to the user by a Web service associated with the electronic mail address broadcast.factsheet company.com. Generation of the electronic mail message according to some embodiments will be described below with respect to .

The electronic mail message includes attachment which is a fact sheet associated with a business partner. Attachment may comprise a text file a file native to any software application including but not limited to a Portable Document Format PDF file a Word file or any other suitable file type. In some embodiments attachment does not comply with a groupware object standard such as those described above.

Attachment may be saved locally by the user for offline use. As will be described below a fact sheet attachment associated with a business partner may be transmitted to the user periodically and or in response to a fact sheet update. The foregoing may provide the user with persistent access to updated fact sheets.

Process of may be executed to transmit a fact sheet to a groupware client via an electronic mail message such as that illustrated in . Such a fact sheet may include information stored in business objects of a business process platform.

Initially at S a system of the business process platform e.g. a CRM system determines to broadcast a fact sheet based on a subscription. In this regard the business process platform may maintain user subscriptions to fact sheet broadcasts. A user may subscribe for instance to fact sheets associated with one or more business partners. In some embodiments the user may transmit an electronic mail message to a subscription Web Service of the platform electing to receive the fact sheets periodically in response to updates thereto and or in any other suitable manner. The determination at S may therefore be triggered by an update to fact sheet data or by a calendar event.

An outbound process agent exposes the fact sheet via an application specific Web service message at S. The Web service message complies with an application specific groupware message interface according to some embodiments. The Web service message also includes an electronic mail address of the user.

The application specific Web service message is mapped at S to a generic groupware Web service message interface of type eMailNotification. The mapping may be pre configured and triggered based on a determination that the application specific Web service message does not comply with the generic groupware Web service message interface. This determination may be based on detecting a difference between the sender electronic mail address of the message e.g. broadcast.factsheet company.com and the electronic mail address associated with the generic groupware Web service e.g. track.activity company.com on the identity of the outbound process agent that generated the application specific Web service message or on any other factor.

An XML fragment of the converted Web service message is converted at S to an electronic mail message body and header structure. Due to the message type eMail handler is invoked at S to convert the XML fragment to an internal representation and to convert the internal representation to a string corresponding to the electronic mail message body and header structure.

An intermediate SOAP message with attachment is composed at S. The main payload of the SOAP message includes the header structure of the mail message including the recipient electronic mail address and the body of the mail message. The fact sheet is attached as a SOAP attachment to the SOAP message.

The intermediate SOAP message with attachment is converted to an internet electronic mail message at S. The main payload of the SOAP message including the recipient electronic mail address may be mapped to the header and body of the internet electronic mail message and the SOAP attachment is converted into a MIME attachment according to some embodiments.

At S the electronic mail message is converted from internet message format RFC 2822 to the wire format and is sent via SMTP to a mail server. The electronic mail message is then routed to a mail server associated with the recipient electronic mail address of the electronic mail message. The user may access the electronic mail message using a groupware client and save the fact sheet locally as described with respect to . As in other usage scenarios described herein the locally saved fact sheet may be accessed by the groupware client even if no network connection is available i.e. the groupware client is offline . According to some embodiments groupware contact information accessible by a groupware client may include a parameterized hyperlink for direct online download of an associated fact sheet.

The electronic mail address request.vacation company.com has been pre associated with a vacation request Web service provided by a CRM system or other business process platform to which the user has access. The user may therefore request the Web service by selecting Send button to transmit the electronic mail message and the iCalendar object to the platform using standard protocols. illustrates process which may be performed by the platform in response to transmission of the electronic mail message.

The internet electronic mail message including the attached iCalendar object is received at S. The message may be received from a mailbox storing all electronic mail messages directed to request.vacation company.com and may be converted from the wire format to the internet message format at S. Next at S the electronic mail message is converted from the internet electronic mail message format to a SOAP message with a SOAP attachment.

According to some embodiments S may include resolving the body of the electronic mail message the header elements of the electronic mail message and a highest node level of the attachment tree. The main payload of the SOAP message comprises the body and the header elements and the SOAP attachment comprises the highest level nodes of the attachment tree.

The SOAP attachment is fragmented at S to generate an XML fragment. Since the SOAP attachment is an iCalendar attachment iCalendar handler may be invoked at S to generate the XML fragment. An XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface is composed based on the XML fragment at S. The attachment includes a VEVENT block according to the present example therefore the composed message is of type CalendarEventNotification as described with respect to process .

The generic groupware Web service message is mapped to an application specific Web service message interface at S based on a recipient electronic mail address of the received electronic mail message. Continuing the present example the generic groupware Web service message is mapped to the message interface of an application specific Web service associated with the recipient electronic mail address vacation.request company.com.

The application specific Web service message is received by an inbound process agent corresponding to application specific Web service at S. The inbound process agent then operates at S to provide the application specific Web service. For example the inbound process agent may instantiate a business object corresponding to a vacation request using information included in the application specific Web service message.

Some embodiments provide an efficient system to process approvals using a groupware mail client. Such approvals may apply to vacation requests submitted as described above or any other request for which approval is needed. Such other requests may also be submitted according to the embodiments described herein.

Process of may be executed by a business process platform to facilitate approvals using a groupware client. A required approval is initially identified at S. The identification may comprise detection of a business object instantiated in response to a vacation request price change request or any other request requiring an approval. The required approval may be exposed by a dedicated approval system of the business process platform.

An outbound process agent generates an application specific Web service message at S. The Web service message complies with an application specific groupware message interface and is associated with the approval. For example the application specific Web service message may include details to assist a determination of whether to grant or deny the approval. The Web service message also includes an electronic mail address of a user with the authority to grant or deny the approval. The details and electronic mail address may be received by the outbound process agent from the approval system.

The application specific Web service message is mapped to a generic groupware Web service message interface of type eMailNotification at S. The mapping may be triggered based on a difference between the sender electronic mail address of the message e.g. approvals company.com and the electronic mail address associated with the generic groupware Web service e.g. track.activity company.com on the identity of the outbound process agent that generated the application specific Web service message or on any other factor.

At S an XML fragment of the converted Web service message is converted to an electronic mail message body and header structure. eMail handler may be invoked at S to convert the XML fragment to an internal representation and to convert the internal representation to a string corresponding to the electronic mail message body and header structure.

An intermediate SOAP message is then composed at S. The main payload of the SOAP message includes the header structure of the mail message including the recipient electronic mail address and the body of the mail message. According to some embodiments S may also comprise enriching the SOAP message with various additions such as URLs for direct navigation into application platform and voting buttons for facilitating responses.

The intermediate SOAP message is converted to an internet electronic mail message at S. The main payload of the SOAP message including the recipient electronic mail address may be mapped to the header and body of the internet electronic mail message according to some embodiments. The electronic mail message is then converted from internet message format RFC 2822 to the wire format and sent via SMTP to a mail server at S.

Some embodiments may facilitate direct customer interaction with a business process platform. Such interaction may be particularly useful for case management.

For example presents user interface of a groupware mail client. A customer has manipulated user interface to create an internet electronic mail message for transmission to the internet electronic mail address customer.service company.com. It will be assumed that customer.service company.com is associated with an application specific Web service provided by a CRM system or other business process platform to which the user has access. Accordingly upon user selection of Send button the electronic mail message is sent to the platform using standard protocols.

The electronic mail message is then converted to a SOAP message at S. As described above S may include resolving the body and the header elements of the electronic mail message. The body and the header elements are used to create the main payload of the SOAP message.

Next an XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface is composed at S. The SOAP message does not include any attachments. Therefore according to S of process the composed message is of type eMailNotification.

The generic groupware Web service message is mapped at S to an application specific Web service message interface based on a recipient electronic mail address of the received electronic mail message. More specifically the electronic mail address customer.service company.com is associated with an application specific groupware Web service. The generic groupware Web service message is mapped to the message interface of this application specific groupware Web service at S based on pre defined mappings.

The application specific Web service message is received by an inbound process agent corresponding to the application specific groupware Web service at S. The inbound process agent creates a business object based on the application specific Web service message at S. The business object may represent a customer service electronic mail activity in some embodiments. The business process platform may proceed to operate based on the created business object. For example a case manager may be notified of the customer service electronic mail activity via any suitable notification mechanisms provided by the business process platform.

According to some embodiments process of is executed by a business process platform in response to a customer service mail activity. The customer service mail activity may have been generated by process or by any other process of the business process platform. The customer service email activity is identified at S and an outbound process agent generates an application specific Web service message associated with a structured form at S.

The Web service message complies with an application specific groupware message interface and includes a form having a known structure. The form may comprise an iForm a PDF form a word processing document or any other fillable document. The Web service message also includes an electronic mail address of a user with whom the customer service mail activity is associated.

The application specific Web service message is mapped to a generic groupware Web service message interface of type eMailNotification at S. The mapping may be pre configured and triggered based on a determination that the Web service message complies with the application specific Web service message interface and not with the generic groupware Web service message interface.

At S an XML fragment of the converted Web service message is converted to an electronic mail message body and an electronic mail message header structure including the recipient electronic mail address . eMail handler may be invoked at S to convert the XML fragment to an internal representation and to convert the internal representation to a string corresponding to the electronic mail message body and header structure.

An intermediate SOAP message with attachment is composed at S. The main payload of the SOAP message includes the header structure of the mail message and the body of the mail message. The structured form is attached to the SOAP message as a SOAP attachment.

The intermediate SOAP message is converted to an internet electronic mail message at S. The main payload of the SOAP message including the recipient electronic mail address may be mapped to the header and body of the internet electronic mail message and the SOAP attachment is converted to a MIME attachment and attached thereto according to some embodiments. The electronic mail message is then converted to the wire format and sent to a mail server via SMTP at S.

User interface of presents an electronic mail message generated according to process and as received at a groupware client. The displayed electronic mail message includes instructions for responding within body and structured form . As noted in the instructions the customer may complete form and forward the form to the electronic mail address case.management company.com. This electronic mail address is associated with a case management related Web service of a business process platform.

Accordingly by sending a reply to the electronic mail address case.management company.com including completed form the customer interacts with an inbound process agent of the case management related Web service as described above. The inbound process agent may instantiate a business object based on the reply and on information from completed form . The information may be parsed from completed form based on the known structure of form . The business object may then be handled by a CRM system of the business process platform in any suitable manner. In some embodiments a case manager may complete a locally saved copy of a structured form generate an electronic mail message including the completed form and send the electronic mail message directly to the electronic mail address case.management company.com to initiate the process described above.

Some embodiments provide efficient access to reports of a business process platform. These reports may include information related to any number of business objects maintained by the platform and may interrelate any applications and processes executing within the platform.

Report selection criteria may be included within an electronic mail message in any manner that is known or described herein. For example report selection criteria may be specified in subject field in other fields presented by user interface in a pull down menu of user interface and or in a pop up window that is displayed upon selection of a plug in enabled button of user interface . Such a pull down menu or pop up window may display a list of selectable report selection criteria that is stored locally and or obtained from the business process platform through on the fly Web service calls and or URL navigation.

According to some embodiments the electronic mail address reports company.com is associated with a report generating Web service provided by a CRM system or other business process platform to which the user has access. Some embodiments may associate report specific electronic mail addresses with corresponding report specific Web services. The latter embodiments might not require specification of a report type within the report selection criteria. In either case transmission of report selection criteria to a report generating Web service is initiated by user selection of Send button .

For example an internet electronic mail message including report selection criteria may be received at S of process . The message may be received from a mailbox associated with address reports company.com. The electronic mail message is converted from an internet electronic mail message format to a SOAP message at S. The SOAP message includes the body and the header elements of the electronic mail message in its main payload. More specifically the main payload of the SOAP message includes the report selection criteria.

eMail handler may be invoked at S to generate an XML fragment based on the main payload of the SOAP message. Next at S the XML fragment is used to compose an XML SOAP message compliant with a generic groupware Web service message interface.

The generic groupware Web service message is mapped at S to an application specific Web service message interface based on a recipient electronic mail address of the received electronic mail message. As mentioned above it will be assumed that the electronic mail address reports company.com is associated with a report generating Web service. An electronic mail message sent to this electronic mail address is therefore to be processed by the application specific groupware Web service. Since a generic groupware Web service message is composed at S this message is mapped to the message interface of the report generating Web service at S based on pre defined mappings.

The report generating Web service message is received by an inbound process agent corresponding to the report generating Web service at S. The inbound process agent determines the report selection criteria from the report generating Web service message at S. Next at S the inbound process agent interacts with a reporting system to generate a report based on the report selection criteria.

User interface of presents an electronic mail message sent to a user according to some embodiments. The electronic mail message was sent to the user by a Web service associated with the electronic mail address reports company.com. Briefly an outbound process agent may have exposed a report generated according to process and the electronic mail message of may have been subsequently generated by a business process platform as described above with respect to process .

The electronic mail message includes report attachment which may comprise a file native to any software application including but not limited to an Excel file a PDF file a Word file or any other suitable file type. In some embodiments attachment does not comply with a groupware object standard as described herein. Report attachment may be saved locally by the user to facilitate offline use.

Conventional CRM systems may generate service orders for execution by a technician or other appropriate employee. Some embodiments provide for efficient communication of such a generated service order to a groupware client.

Process of may be executed to transmit an electronic mail message as shown in . A service order is initially generated in a CRM system at S. The service order may be automatically generated by platform based on business rules and associated trigger events or may be generated manually using user interface of system . The service order may comprise a business object instantiated in response to a customer report a maintenance schedule and or any other suitable trigger.

The generated service order is exposed by an outbound process agent via a Web service message at S. The Web service message is associated with the service order and complies with an application specific message interface according to some embodiments. The Web service message is also associated with a service order attachment such as that represented by file of . The attachment may comprise an iForm a PDF form a word processing document or any other fillable document. The Web service message also includes an electronic mail address of a user to whom the service order is to be transmitted.

The application specific Web service message is mapped to a generic groupware Web service message interface of type CalendarEventNotification at S. The mapping may be pre configured and triggered based on a determination that the Web service message complies with the application specific Web service message interface and not with a generic groupware Web service message interface. In some aspects this determination is based on a determination that the sender electronic mail address within the Web service message differs from an electronic mail address associated with the generic groupware Web service.

A XML fragment of the converted Web service message is converted to an iCalendar attachment at S. S may comprise invoking iCalendar handler to convert the XML fragment to an internal representation and to convert the internal representation to a string corresponding to the iCalendar attachment. S may also comprise generation of any fields required by the iCalendar standard that are not provided in the Web service message.

An intermediate SOAP message is composed at S by attaching the iCalendar attachment to a SOAP message in which the main payload represents a header structure and body of a mail message and the attachment is a SOAP attachment. The intermediate SOAP message also includes the recipient electronic mail address which may be determined from fields of the iCalendar attachment and a second SOAP attachment comprising the service order attachment.

Next at S the SOAP message with attachments is converted to an internet electronic mail message. According to some embodiments the main payload of the SOAP message is mapped to the header and body of the internet electronic mail message and the SOAP attachments are converted into MIME attachments. The iCalendar attachment is converted to an iCalendar object prior to attachment to the electronic mail message.

The electronic mail message is converted from internet message format RFC 2822 to the wire format and is sent to a mail server via SMTP at S. The electronic mail message may then be routed to a mail server associated with the recipient electronic mail address of the electronic mail message and displayed by a groupware client of a user as shown in . In some embodiments the iCalendar object is automatically imported into the user s calendar.

User interface may be used to return a service order form to a CRM system according to some embodiments. User interface may be presented in response to user selection of the Reply function of the groupware client. As shown the service order i.e. the iCalendar object represented in is described by body text . Attachment comprises a completed version of attachment . Attachment is sent to the electronic mail address of the original sender i.e. the electronic mail address associated with the corresponding application specific Web service by selecting Send button .

The reply message may be converted to a generic groupware Web service message and then to an application specific Web service message as described above. An inbound process agent may update a business object associated with the service order based on the application specific Web service message and on information from completed attachment . As described with respect to form of a previous example the information may be parsed from completed attachment based on the known structure of attachment . The business object may then be handled by a CRM system of the business process platform in any suitable manner.

A business process platform may generate tasks related to business process and or platform exceptions e.g. for exception handling . illustrates user interface representing such a task as displayed by a groupware client. An interface such as user interface is used by the groupware client to present an electronic mail message to which an iCalendar object representing a task is attached. Accordingly user interface includes Task toolbar and presents associated task details .

An electronic mail message as shown in may be generated and transmitted according to process of . A business process platform generates a task at S. The task may be generated manually or automatically generated based on business rules and associated trigger events such as but not limited to detection of an exception. The generated task may comprise an instantiation of a task business object.

The generated task is exposed by an outbound process agent via a Web service message at S. The Web service message may be associated with the task and complies with an application specific message interface. Moreover he Web service message includes an electronic mail address of a user to whom the task is to be assigned.

The application specific Web service message is mapped at S to a generic groupware Web service message interface of type GroupwareTaskNotification. The mapping may be follow a determination that the Web service message complies with the application specific Web service message interface and not with a generic groupware Web service message interface.

A XML fragment of the converted Web service message is converted to an iCalendar attachment at S. iCalendar handler may be invoked at S to convert the XML fragment to an internal representation and to convert the internal representation to a string corresponding to the iCalendar attachment. Next at S an intermediate SOAP message is composed by attaching the iCalendar attachment to a SOAP message in which the main payload represents a header structure and body of a mail message. The intermediate SOAP message also includes the recipient electronic mail address which may be determined from fields of the iCalendar attachment.

The SOAP message with attachments is converted to an internet electronic mail message at S. According to some embodiments the main payload of the SOAP message is mapped to the header and body of the internet electronic mail message and the SOAP attachment is converted into MIME attachments. The iCalendar attachment is converted to an iCalendar object prior to attachment to the electronic mail message. The iCalendar attachment may include a VTODO block to designate the object as a groupware task.

The electronic mail message is then converted from internet message format RFC 2822 to the wire format and is sent to a mail server via SMTP at S. In some embodiments the electronic mail message is routed to a mail server associated with the recipient electronic mail address of the electronic mail message and displayed by a groupware client of a user as shown in . In some embodiments the iCalendar object is automatically imported into the user s calendar.

User interface of may be used to indicate progress of an assigned task according to some embodiments. Upon saving any user changes to a received task the groupware client transmits an electronic mail message including the changed task object to the electronic mail address of the original sender i.e. the electronic mail address associated with the corresponding application specific Web service . As described with respect to examples above the electronic mail message is converted to a generic groupware Web service message and then to an application specific Web service message as described above. An inbound process agent may then update the task business object based on the application specific Web service message.

Elements described herein as communicating with one another are directly or indirectly capable of communicating over any number of different systems for transferring data including but not limited to shared memory communication a local area network a wide area network a telephone network a cellular network a fiber optic network a satellite network an infrared network a radio frequency network and any other type of network that may be used to transmit information between devices. Moreover communication between systems may proceed over any one or more transmission protocols that are or become known such as Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Internet Protocol IP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and Wireless Application Protocol WAP .

The embodiments described herein are solely for the purpose of illustration. Those in the art will recognize other embodiments may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by the claims.

