---

title: Charging device, image forming apparatus and charging method
abstract: A technology capable of realizing a stable charging performance in an image forming apparatus employing a contact charging system is provided. A charging device is configured to have a charging member to which a prescribed bias voltage is applied and which comes into contact with an image carrying surface of an image carrier to charge the image carrying surface; and a particle supply section configured to supply a charging auxiliary particle made of a conductive particle having a diamond particle contained therein in a portion coming into contact with the image carrying surface in the charging member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08005402&OS=08005402&RS=08005402
owner: Toshiba Tec Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08005402
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070110
---
The present invention relates to a contact charging system in an image forming apparatus and in particular relates to stabilization of a charging performance.

In recent years injection charging which is a charging system not accompanied with discharging is watched as a charging system on an image carrier surface in an image forming apparatus.

The injection charging is excellent in charging efficiency. For example in non contact charging in order to charge a surface of a body to be charged at 500 V it is required to apply a bias of approximately 800 to 1 200 V to a charging unit whereas in the injection charging only a bias of approximately 500 to 700 V is necessary and it does not follow the Paschen s law of discharging and therefore the generation of ozone due to discharging is remarkably low.

Also in recent years a method of using a charging auxiliary particle is proposed as a method of stably performing injection charging. This stabilizes charging characteristics by mediating a charging auxiliary particle between an elastic roller or a brush roller and a photoconductor and in general the injection charging efficiency is improved by using a particle having a smaller particle size than a toner and having low resistivity.

For example JP A 2005 326659 discloses an example for improving the efficiency of injection charging by combining a charging member having a specified expanded cell and a conductive charging auxiliary particle. Here the charging auxiliary particle is externally added to a toner in a development unit in advance and since the charging auxiliary particle is a conductive particle it remains on the photoconductor without being transferred in a transfer step. In addition the disclosed example is concerned with a cleaner less process not having a photoconductor cleaner and after it has functioned as a charging auxiliary particle in a charging section the particle is recovered in a development section.

Also JP A 2005 99550 discloses an example for applying a charging auxiliary particle to a brush charging roller.

This example is concerned with a system in which a charging auxiliary particle is contained in a brush in advance and the charging auxiliary particle is not externally added in a toner in advance. Furthermore this example is concerned with a configuration provided with a photoconductor cleaner the resistivity of the charging auxiliary particle is also set up on a lower level than the toner and the injection charging is carried out by the charging auxiliary particle.

As described above though some examples of using a charging auxiliary particle have been proposed there are still involved the following problems.

 1 In all of these examples a charging performance of injection charging itself is insufficient and when a halftone image or the like is printed there may be a possibility that streak unevenness is generated due to charging unevenness.

 2 In the system of externally adding a conductive particle in a toner in advance the charging characteristics of the toner are deteriorated by the charging auxiliary particle and an image with high image quality cannot be obtained as compared with the case where the charging auxiliary particle is not present. 3 In the system of not mixing a charging auxiliary particle in a toner since even a trace amount of the charging auxiliary particle is always released from a charging unit the charging auxiliary particle intermixes into a development unit thereby deteriorating the charging characteristics of the toner. Thus when used over a long period of time the image quality is deteriorated.

Embodiments of the invention are aimed to provide a technology capable of realizing a stable charging performance in an image forming apparatus employing a contact charging system.

In order to solve the foregoing problems a charging device according to an embodiment of the invention is configured to have a charging member to which a prescribed bias voltage is applied and which comes into contact with an image carrying surface of an image carrier to charge the image carrying surface and a particle supply section configured to supply a charging auxiliary particle made of a conductive particle having a diamond particle contained therein in a portion coming into contact with the image carrying surface in the charging member.

Also a charging device according to an embodiment of the invention is configured to have a charging means to which a prescribed bias voltage is applied and for coming into contact with an image carrying surface of an image carrier to charge the image carrying surface and a particle supply means for supplying a charging auxiliary particle made of a conductive particle having a diamond particle contained therein in a portion coming into contact with the image carrying surface in the charging means.

Also a charging method according to an embodiment of the invention is configured to include supplying a charging auxiliary particle made of a conductive particle having a diamond particle contained therein in a portion of a charging member coming into contact with an image carrying surface of an image carrier which comes into contact with the image carrying surface to charge the image carrying surface and applying a prescribed bias voltage to the charging member in a state that the charging auxiliary particle is mediated between the charging member and the image carrier thereby charging the surface of the image carrier.

A photoconductive drum image carrier has a cylindrical shape having a diameter of 30 mm and is provided rotatably to a direction illustrated by an arrow. The following are arranged in the surroundings of the photoconductive drum along the rotation direction. First of all the charging device is provided opposing to a surface of the photoconductive drum image carrier surface . This charging device uniformly negatively charges the photoconductive drum by a contact charging system. An exposure position at which the charged photoconductive drum is exposed by an exposure device to form an electrostatic latent image is established in a downstream side than the charging device in a movement direction of the photoconductive surface. Furthermore a development unit which accommodates a developing agent therein and reversely develops the electrostatic latent image formed by the exposure device with this developing agent is provided at a prescribed development position in a downstream side than the exposure position in the movement direction of the photoconductive surface. In the development unit a prescribed development bias voltage is applied to a development roller by a development bias voltage application section .

In addition a prescribed primary transfer position at which a color toner image formed on the photoconductive drum is subjected to primary transfer into an intermediate transfer belt is established in a downstream side than the development position in the movement direction of the photoconductive surface. A transfer roller to which a prescribed transfer bias voltage is applied by a transfer bias voltage application section presses the intermediate transfer belt towards the photoconductive drum at the foregoing primary transfer position. When a color image is formed on the intermediate transfer belt at the primary transfer position a developing agent image formed on the intermediate transfer belt is collectively transferred onto paper which has been carried at a non illustrated secondary transfer position. A toner recovery section for recovering a transferred residual toner remaining on the photoconductive surface of the photoconductive drum is provided in a downstream side than a contact position primary transfer position between the photoconductive drum and the intermediate transfer belt in the movement direction of the photoconductive surface.

Subsequently details of the charging device according to the present embodiment are described. The charging device according to the present embodiment is provided with a supply roller a charging roller a supply bias voltage application section a charging bias voltage application section and a layer thickness regulating blade .

The charging roller charging member or charging unit is a rotatably supported roller to which a prescribed charging bias voltage is applied by the charging bias voltage application section and comes into contact with the photoconductive surface of the photoconductive drum for the purpose of charging the photoconductive surface.

The supply roller is a rotatably supported roller to which a prescribed supply bias voltage is applied by the supply bias voltage application section and supplies a charging auxiliary particle made of a conductive particle having a diamond particle particle having a prescribed negative electronegativity contained therein to a portion coming into contact with the photoconductive surface of the charging roller. Here the supply roller and the supply bias voltage application section are corresponding to a particle supply section particle supply unit .

Thus by taking a configuration in which the charging auxiliary particle is mediated between the bias applied charging roller and the photoconductive surface of the photoconductive drum it is possible to improve the charging efficiency of the photoconductive surface of the photoconductive drum .

As illustrated in in the present embodiment the supply roller is rotated and driven in such a manner that a roller surface of the supply roller and a roller surface of the charging roller move in the same direction so called with direction in a portion close to the charging roller . Thus by rotating the supply roller and the charging roller in the with direction it is possible to inhibit the degradation of the charging roller caused due to abrasion between the both rollers and to improve the durability of the suppler roller and the charging roller .

Incidentally the supply roller may be rotated in a coupled driving manner against the charging roller or may be provided with a circumferential speed difference of from approximately 0.5 to 3 times. However for the purpose of improving the durability of the suppler roller and the charging roller the suppler roller and the charging roller may also be rotated and driven in such a manner that the circumferential speed is substantial equal.

As described later since a contact angle of the roller surface of the supply roller against water is set up larger than a contact angle of the roller surface of the charging roller against water the charging auxiliary particle easily moves from the supply roller to the charging roller. In this way in the case where the contact angles of the both rollers are made largely different from each other since the charging auxiliary particle is easily separated from the supply roller it is desirable that the conveyance of the charging auxiliary particle from the supply roller to the charging roller does not resist gravity as far as possible. Furthermore when the supply roller is arranged at an excessively high position against the charging roller there may be a possibility that space saving is disturbed as a whole of the apparatus.

Then a rotation axis of the supply roller is arranged at a position within a range H in higher than a rotation axis of the charging roller but lower than a maximum arrival position of the outer periphery of the charging roller in a height direction.

Incidentally here when a radius of the supply roller is defined as Rs and a radius of the charging roller is defined as Rt Rt Rs is set up so as to fall within the range of from 1 to 1.6.

Furthermore when a gap between the roller surface of the supply roller and the roller surface of the charging roller in a position at which the both rollers are close to each other is defined as G and a diameter of the charging auxiliary particle is defined as Td the following relationship is set up. 2 

When the supply roller and the charging roller are excessively separated from each other it is impossible to form a layer of the charging auxiliary particle in an appropriate layer thickness. However by taking the foregoing configuration it is possible to form a thin layer of the charging auxiliary particle in a layer thickness of not more than 2 times of the diameter of the charging auxiliary particle. The charging roller and the supply roller may come into contact with each other. However when a contact pressure is high a strain or a problem from the viewpoint of durability is caused. Accordingly though it may be desired to make the charging roller and the supply roller close to each other as far as possible it is not preferable that the both rollers are separated from each other exceeding the range specified by the foregoing expression. Accordingly the both rollers are adjusted in such a manner that the condition specified by the foregoing expression is kept from the contact state while taking into consideration eccentricity of the both rollers or the like.

Concretely any elastomers such as synthetic rubbers and thermoplastic elastomers may be used as a material of the elastic layer. Examples of the resin include fluorocarbon resins polyamide resins acrylic resins polyurethane resins silicone resins butyral resins styrene ethylene.butyl ene olefin copolymers SEBC and olefin ethylene.butyl ene olefin copolymers CEBC . Furthermore examples of the elastomer include synthetic rubbers and thermoplastic elastomers. Examples of the synthetic rubber include natural rubbers for example vulcanized rubbers epichlorohydrin rubbers EPDM SBR silicone rubbers urethane rubbers IR BR NBR and CR. Examples of the thermoplastic elastomer include polyolefin based thermoplastic elastomers urethane based thermoplastic elastomers polystyrene based thermoplastic elastomers fluorocarbon rubber based thermoplastic elastomers polyester based thermoplastic elastomers polyamide based thermoplastic elastomers polybutadiene based thermoplastic elastomers ethylene vinyl acetate based thermoplastic elastomers polyvinyl chloride based thermoplastic elastomers and chlorinated polyethylene based thermoplastic elastomers. These materials may be used singly or in admixture of two or more kinds thereof or may be a copolymer.

Furthermore an expanded material obtained by expansion molding of such an elastic material may be used as the elastic material. Preferably for the purpose of ensuring a nip between the charging member and the photoconductor it may be said to be better to use a synthetic rubber material for the elastic layer material.

It is preferable that the conductivity of the elastic layer is adjusted at less than 10e8 cm by properly adding a conductive agent such as carbon black conductive metal oxides alkali metal salts and ammonium salts in the foregoing elastic material. When the conductivity of the elastic layer is 10e8 cm or more a charging performance of the charging member becomes low and the charging uniformity for uniformly charging a body to be charged is lowered. In that case charging unevenness is often caused thereby generating image failure. Furthermore the elasticity and hardness of the elastic layer are adjusted by adding a softening oil a plasticizer etc. by expanding the foregoing elastic material.

Subsequently with respect to a material of the surface layer any resins or elastomers may be basically used and the same materials as those in the elastic layer in the present embodiment can be used.

In addition in the surface layer various conductive fine particles may be added to adjust its volume resistivity at a desired value. As the conductive fine particle those as described above can be used and two or more kinds thereof may be used jointly. Moreover for the purposes of controlling surface properties and improving reinforcement properties a fine particle of titanium oxide or the like can also be used. A mold releasing substance may further be contained in the surface layer. A resistivity of the surface layer of from approximately 10e4 to 10e14 cm can be employed. It has hitherto been said that leakage of the photoconductor is liable to be caused unless the resistivity of the surface layer is the resistivity value of the elastic layer or more. However in the present embodiment since charging is carried out by injection charging and the applied voltage is extremely reduced as compared with that of the related art even when the resistivity of the surface layer is low a leakage hardly occurs.

Incidentally the configuration of the charging roller is not limited to the foregoing configuration but it may be of a three layered structure in which a resistance layer or the like is further provided between the elastic layer and the surface layer or may be of a multilayered structure.

Furthermore the charging roller may be a charging member in a roller shape as illustrated in which is configured to provide only an elastic layer on a support without especially providing a surface layer.

As a matter of course the shape of the charging member is not limited to the roller shape but can be a charging member in a belt shape as illustrated in .

Besides the shape of the charging member may be a charging member in a blade shape as illustrated in corresponding to a required performance an arrangement space and the like or may be a charging member in a brush roller shape as illustrated in .

A unit for supplying the charging auxiliary particle onto the charging roller is for example of a type in which the layer thickness regulating blade is provided in the supply roller and when a uniform layer of the charging auxiliary particle is provided on the supply roller and comes into contact with the charging roller the charging auxiliary particle is supplied onto the charging roller . As described previously though the surface layer is provided on the surface of the charging roller by making its surface energy lower than that of the photoconductive surface the charging auxiliary particle does not move onto the photoconductive drum . In addition by making the surface energy on the surface of the supply roller for supplying the charging auxiliary particle onto the charging roller higher than that of the charging roller the charging auxiliary particle can be stably supplied onto the charging roller .

Though the rotation direction is not particularly limited with respect to a circumferential speed difference between the charging roller and the photoconductive drum provided that the driving is preferably performed in a separate driving manner but not a coupled driving manner and in the with direction it is better that a circumferential speed is set up at 1.1 to 4 times of a circumferential speed of the photoconductor. Even when the circumferential speed of the charging roller is equal to or slower than that of the photoconductive drum the effects could be brought. However it is preferable from the viewpoint of stability of the injection charging that the circumferential speed of the charging roller is faster. However when the circumferential speed of the charging roller is set up at more than 4 times of that of the photoconductive drum the charging auxiliary particle tends to be easily separated.

In a portion where the photoconductive drum and the charging roller come into contact with each other in the case where the photoconductive drum and the charging roller are rotated and driven in such a manner that the photoconductive surface of the photoconductive drum and the roller surface of the charging roller move in a reverse direction so called against direction to each other it is preferable that a circumferential speed of the charging roller is from approximately 0.5 to 3 times of a circumferential speed of the photoconductive drum. This is because when the circumferential speed of the charging roller is less than 0.5 times of that of the photoconductive drum the stability of the injection charging becomes possibly unstable whereas when the circumferential speed of the charging roller is fast to an extent that it exceeds 3 times of that of the photoconductive drum the charging auxiliary particle tends to be easily separated.

In the present embodiment a direct current bias voltage of from 400 to 1 100 V is applied to the charging roller by the charging bias voltage application section and a resistivity value of the charging auxiliary particle containing a diamond fine particle of from 1 10e2 to 1 10e12 cm more desirably from 1 10e3 to 1 10e8 cm is employed. When the resistivity is low the charging auxiliary particle remains on the charging roller due to the foregoing relationship of surface energy and in a region where the resistivity is high to a some extent since a probability that the particle itself is charged to positive polarity is low because of the intensity of electron donating properties with negative polarity as a characteristic feature of the diamond fine particle the particle itself can remain on the surface of the charging roller .

Incidentally the electrical resistivity of the particle was measured in the following manner. That is a tool prepared by boring a hole of 1 cmin a columnar shape on an insulating plate having a thickness of 1 cm was installed on a metal electrode and the fine particle was filled in that hole. An electrode having a size substantially the same as the hole and also serving as a weight was placed thereon and 250 V was applied in a state of applying a load of 1 kg thereby measuring the resistivity.

Incidentally it is not necessary that the bias voltage to be applied to the charging member represented by the charging roller is limited to only a DC voltage but an AC voltage can also be superimposed. In particular it is already known that by applying a peak to peak voltage of two times or more of a discharging initiation voltage uniform charging can be achieved by discharge even in a state free from the charging auxiliary particle. Even by applying such a bias voltage a stable charging performance is obtainable although the discharging is slightly caused.

Subsequently a manufacturing method of a charging auxiliary particle which is used in the present embodiment is hereunder described. The charging auxiliary particle was prepared in the following manner.

A cluster diamond having a nominal primary particle size of from 3 to 10 nm was used as the diamond fine particle. For example a product of New Metal and Chemicals can be used as the diamond fine particle. The shape may be spherical. Since the diamond particle is usually manufactured by a blasting method it contains a lot of impurities and its particle size distribution is relatively broad. Then first of all the following purification treatment was carried out.

First of all as a treatment with hot concentrated sulfuric acid the diamond particle was rinsed with a mixed liquid of concentrated nitric acid and concentrated sulfuric acid at 250 to 350 C. for 2 hours and then rinsed with dilute hydrochloric acid at 150 C. for one hour. Thereafter the diamond particle was rinsed with hydrofluoric acid in a normal temperature state for one hour thereby removing the impurities.

Thereafter the resulting diamond particle was dispersed in a mixed solution of pure water and an alcohol to form a colloid solution which was then treated by a centrifuge to extract a supernatant followed by drying to form a powder.

The thus purified diamond fine particle had an average particle size inclusive of a secondary particle size of not more than 100 nm and subjected to external addition treatment in an amount of from 1 to 10 parts by weight to for example 100 parts by weight of a conductive zinc oxide particle conductive particle average particle size 1.2 m specific resistivity about 1 10e3 cm . As a result the specific resistivity as the charging auxiliary particle became 1 10e4 to 1 10e6 cm.

Furthermore in addition to the above the charging auxiliary particle can be prepared by adding carbon black and a diamond fine particle in a resin such as polyesters and styrene acrylic copolymers and kneading and pulverizing the mixture.

According to this method since the diamond fine particle is dispersed in the resin base together with other conductive agents it is not easily separated from the charging auxiliary particle. In the experiment by dispersing carbon black and a diamond fine particle in a polyester resin and varying the amount of carbon black and a pulverization condition a charging auxiliary particle having an average particle size of 1 m and a specific resistivity of from 1 10e4 cm to 1 10e6 cm was prepared. Incidentally when the resistivity was the same as in the sample of 1 the diamond fine particle was prepared by adjusting the addition amount of the diamond fine particle such that it was the same addition amount of the diamond fine particle.

Samples were prepared as the Comparative Examples in the same manners as in 1 or 2 except that the diamond fine particle was not externally added or internally added.

At that time for the purpose of performing the comparison while making the resistivity value of the zinc oxide particle common one having a resistivity of 1 10e4 cm even in a state of not externally adding a diamond fine particle was used.

The photoconductor is for example configured such that on an aluminum made drum having a diameter of 30 mm a subbing layer as a first layer a positive charge injection preventing layer as a second layer a charge generation layer as a third layer and a charge transport layer as a fourth layer are stacked in this order from the aluminum base layer side. Though this is a general organic photoconductor of a function separation type it does not substantially limit the configuration of the invention. It is also possible to use an organic ZnO selenium or amorphous silicon a Si photoconductor of a single layer type.

In the related art injection charging it is general to further provide a charge injection layer as a fifth layer. As the charge injection layer for example one prepared by dispersing an SnOultrafine particle in a photocurable acrylic resin is enumerated. Concretely a charge injection layer prepared by dispersing an SnOparticle having an average particle size of about 0.03 m resulting from doping with antimony to reduce its resistivity in a proportion of 5 2 in terms of a weight ratio to the resin and the like are disclosed. Actually it is considered that a volume resistivity value of the charge injection layer varies with the dispersion amount of conductive SnOand that in order to meet a condition for not causing image deletion a resistivity value of the charge injection layer is desirably from 1 10e8 cm to 10e15 cm. As the photoconductor for the Comparative Examples of the invention one in which the charge injection layer had a volume resistivity value of 1 10e12 cm was used. The resistivity value of the charge injection layer was measured by coating the charge injection layer on an insulating sheet followed by measuring at an applied voltage of 100 V by HIRESTA manufactured by Mitsubishi Petrochemical Co. Ltd.

The thus prepared coating solution was coated in a thickness of about 3 m by a dipping coating method to form a charge injection layer. As the photoconductor for the Comparative Examples the following were used.

Photoconductor A Organic photoconductor having up to the fourth layer but not having a charge injection layer

Photoconductor B Organic photoconductor having the foregoing charge injection layer provided on the photoconductor A.

By using the foregoing samples a direct current bias of from 500 to 1 100 V was applied to the charging member under constant voltage control.

The applied voltage was properly adjusted in such a manner that a halftone or the like became a constant reflection density on average.

As to the experiment a continuous printing test was carried out in the experimental apparatus as illustrated in . The experiment was carried out in such a manner that the charging roller was gear driven and that a difference in speed of 2 times was given to the contact section of the photoconductor in the with direction.

The charging auxiliary particle was coated on the roller surface of the charging roller while bringing the supply roller into contact with the charging roller . The supply roller was driven in the with direction against the charging roller at an equal rate in the contact section and brought into contact with a 0.2 mm thick blade made of a metal SUS as the layer thickness regulating blade . A contact angle of the supply roller against water was 90 a contact angle of the surface of the charging roller against water was 75 and a contact angle of the surface of the photoconductor against water was 90 . The measurement of the contact angle against water was carried out by dropping pure water on the surface of each of the samples by using a syringe and measuring a contact angle after standing for 10 seconds in a normal temperature environment at 21 C. and 50 by using a microscope.

With respect to the evaluation method of image three kinds of halftone image having a number screen lines of 212 by multi level screen with 600 dpi image density about 0.3 0.5 and 0.8 an entire white image and an entire black solid image were respectively printed on the entire surface of A3 size paper image streaks caused due to charging unevenness and image defects caused due to a pinhole of the photoconductor were visually confirmed.

With respect to the procedures after confirming an image in an initial state of a charging unit an action of developing a character chart with a printing rate of 4 is developed on the photoconductor and recovering it by a photoconductor cleaner in a state that paper is not passed is carried out corresponding to 10 000 sheets of A4 size paper and thereafter paper is passed thereby performing the foregoing image confirmation. With respect to a combination in which a fault is not caused on the image the subject test was repeated thereby carrying out the test corresponding to 70 000 sheets of paper in total.

In the case where streaks due to charging unevenness were generated is designated as a and the case where a leakage was generated on the photoconductor to cause image defects due to a pinhole is designated as c . In particular with respect to a the level was graded and evaluated on three grades by visual observation on a basis of the generation state. Here level and level were each actually on a substantially non conspicuous level and the test was continued and level was on a level where so called image defects were caused such that a user recognizes it NG due to the life or the like and the test was discontinued at that stage. With respect to the respective levels the case where a difference ID in reflection density on the image from which local defects such as a pinhole of the photoconductor and exposure obstacles between a maximum value and a minimum value is 0.3 or more or streaks are distinctly conspicuous by visual observation was designated as level . The case where not only ID is in a relationship of 0.15

Test Nos. 1 to 6 are concerned with the results in the case where the diamond fine particle is externally added.

Test Nos. 1 to 3 are concerned with the results of the photoconductor A having a charge injection layer and satisfactory images were obtained over printing of 70 000 sheets. Furthermore Test Nos. 4 to 6 are concerned with the results of the photoconductor B not having a charge injection layer and in all of these samples though the generation of charging unevenness in a streak state was observed from the initial stage but not on an intolerable level the subject state could be then kept over printing of 70 000 sheets and as a result the test of 70 000 sheets could be cleared.

On the other hand in the examples of Test Nos. 7 and 8 not containing a diamond fine particle in a combination No. 7 with the photoconductor A having a charge injection layer the generation of streaks was slightly observed from the initial stage and in a combination No. 8 with the photoconductor B not having a charge injection layer uniform charging could not be achieved from the initial stage. Even in Test No. 7 when the test was continued the image quality was deteriorated step by step and after printing of 50 000 sheets became NG . At that time when the development unit was exchanged by a new development unit the image quality was recovered to a level substantially equal to that at the initial stage.

That is it is understood that when a diamond fine particle free charging auxiliary particle is used the performance of the developing agent within the development unit is degraded resulting in degradation of the image quality whereas a diamond fine particle containing charging auxiliary particle is used such degradation is not caused.

The foregoing results were also obtained in the case of internally adding a diamond fine particle. As demonstrated in Test Nos. 9 to 14 according to the results of the photoconductor A having a charging injection layer Nos. 9 to 12 satisfactory images were obtained over printing of 70 000 sheets. Furthermore Test Nos. 13 to 14 are concerned with the use of the photoconductor B not having a charging injection layer and in all of these samples though the generation of charging unevenness in a streak state was observed from the initial stage but not on an intolerable level the subject state could be then kept over printing of 70 000 sheets and as a result the test of 70 000 sheets could be cleared.

On the other hand in the examples of Test Nos. 15 and 16 not containing a diamond fine particle in a combination No. 15 with the photoconductor A having a charge injection layer the generation of streaks was slightly observed from the initial stage and in a combination No. 16 with the photoconductor B not having a charge injection layer uniform charging could not be achieved from the initial stage. Even in Test No. 15 when the test was continued the image quality was deteriorated step by step and after printing of 50 000 sheets became on an intolerable level. At that time when the developing agent in the development unit was exchanged by a new developing agent the image quality was recovered to a level a substantially equal to that at the initial stage.

Test Nos. 17 to 25 in are concerned with the results of review by changing the rotation rate of the charging roller in the Example of externally adding a charging auxiliary particle. The charging auxiliary particle the same as in Test No. 5 was used and the B type not having a charging injection layer was used as the photoconductor.

According to this in the case where the rotation direction of the charging roller is the with direction against the photoconductor when the rotation rate of the charging roller is set up relatively faster by 1.1 to 3 times than that of the photoconductor the same performance is obtained in all of the tests. Furthermore even when the rotation rate of the charging roller is set up relatively slow as in Test No. 21 the same performance is obtained. However it is understood that when the charging roller is rotated at a rate of 1.0 time or in a coupled driving system though the performance is as a matter of course improved as compared with the case of using a charging auxiliary particle of the related art the level of charging unevenness becomes worse as compared with the case of giving a circumferential speed difference. Furthermore with respect to the against direction against the photoconductor it is understood that when the rotation rate of the charging roller is set up at from approximately 0.5 to 3 times a satisfactory performance the same as in the with direction is obtained. It can be said from the foregoing that it is preferred to rotate and drive the charging roller in such a manner that the roller surface of the charging roller has a prescribed difference in speed against the photoconductive surface of the photoconductor.

A brush roller made of nylon UUN was used. As to the thickness of fiber though those of from 0.5 to 10 dtex can be used one of 2 dtex was used herein. The brush roller was rotated at a rate of 2 times in the with direction in the contact section of the photoconductor and a charging auxiliary particle the same as in Test No. 5 was supplied by using the supply roller in the same manner as in the case of the elastic roller. According to this it is understood that the same results as in the case of the charging roller are obtained that the test of 70 000 sheets is cleared and that even by using a brush roller as the charging member the same results are obtained.

Next shows the results of review by changing the surface energy of each of the supply roller surface of a charging auxiliary particle the charging roller surface and the photoconductive surface. The surface energy can be relatively compared by measuring a contact angle against water. The results as shown in are concerned with the respective measurement results and life test results. A charging auxiliary particle the same as in Test No. 5 was used a circumferential speed difference against the photoconductor was 2.0 times in the with direction and the B type not having a charging injection layer was used as the photoconductor.

In Test No. 26 in which the surface energy of the charging roller surface is slightly lower than that in Test No. 5 since the permutation itself does not change the same performance as in Test No. 5 was obtained. However in the case where the contact angle of the supply roller is smaller than that of the charging roller the surface energy is low since the charging auxiliary particle from the supply roller to the charging roller side cannot be satisfactorily supplied the performance is deteriorated. Furthermore in Test Nos. 29 and 30 in which the contact angel of the photoconductive surface is smaller than that of the charging roller surface the surface energy is low since the charging auxiliary particle moves from the charging roller to the photoconductor it is understood that the deterioration of the charging performance is remarkable.

 Contact angle of photoconductive surface against water Contact angle of charging roller surface against water 

It has been thus found that by using the charging device using a charging auxiliary particle according to the invention the charging efficiency is markedly improved as compared with the related art. Also it has been proven that even when the charging auxiliary particle is intermixed into the development unit since it does not deteriorate the characteristics of the developing agent the stable image quality can be guaranteed over a long period of time.

This effect is also brought in the case of mixing a charging auxiliary particle in a toner in advance and using the mixture. That is even when a prescribed amount of the charging auxiliary particle is mixed in a developing agent in advance the charging characteristics of the developing agent itself and so on are not influenced as compared with the related art auxiliary particle and therefore it may be said that an image with high image quality can be explicitly achieved from the initial stage.

In addition the foregoing characteristics of the charging auxiliary particle are obtained due to the characteristics of the diamond fine particle and needless to say the same effects are obtainable even by using the diamond fine particle singly as the charging auxiliary particle. However since according to the single use of the diamond fine particle there is a limit in adjusting the specific resistivity an external addition or internal addition formulation was applied in the present Example. Recently with respect to the diamond fine particle particles having a varied specific resistivity have become available due to a degree of mixing of impurities and particles having a specific resistivity of not more than 1 10e12 cm can be used singly too.

Furthermore in addition to the foregoing effects in particular when the charging auxiliary particle is used in a cleaner less process by stably polishing the photoconductor an effect for preventing an adhesion phenomenon of a toner or an external additive onto the photoconductive surface can be expected. Next a verification experiment regarding this is described.

In the experiment an image forming apparatus M having a process configuration as illustrated in was used. The photoconductor cleaner was omitted and a fixing type brush to which a turbulence bias voltage of DC 600 V is applied by a turbulence bias voltage application section was arranged in that position. This brush disturbs a pattern of the residual transferred toner remaining on the photoconductor without being transferred and stably arranges the charging polarity of the toner in a plus direction. A brush made of nylon having a fiber length of 4 mm and a fiber thickness of 4 dtex is used as the brush . This brush has a resistivity of from 1 10e4 to 10 e7 cm the value of which is a value obtained by applying 300 V in a state of pressing it onto a metal plate at a load of 500 g and measuring a current value at that time.

According to such an apparatus configuration the residual transferred toner is charged plus by the brush and attaches to the charging roller. Here the charging roller of the present embodiment comes into contact with the photoconductor via the charging auxiliary particle. Thus since the injection charging characteristics are excellent the toner is rapidly charged into minus polarity as regular charging polarity within a short time and sent out on the photoconductor.

In the development unit the thus sent out toner is recovered into the development unit in a non image part and an image part remains on the photoconductive drum as a developed image as it is. Here in usual charging auxiliary particles since it is impossible to rapidly charge the residual transferred toner minus the charging roller is stained and the charging performance is lowered. However in the charging auxiliary particle according to the present embodiment such a phenomenon is not caused.

Furthermore in the cleaner less process since a cleaner blade is not present and a member for shaving the photoconductor is not provided so called photoconductor filming in which the toner or the separated external additive adheres to the photoconductor easily occurs. However by using the charging auxiliary particle according to the present embodiment since the diamond fine particle stably polishes the photoconductive surface the filming hardly occurs.

The evaluation was carried out by the same method as in the preceding experiment. In the case where a cleaner is provided the test was carried out without using paper. On the other hand in the present case since a cleaner is not provided the test was carried out by actually passing paper.

With respect to the evaluation items in addition to the foregoing a and c b regarding an image defect caused due to the filming was added. That is when a halftone image a white image or a solid image was printed in the same manner as in the preceding test and streaks or white spots were generated the photoconductive surface was visually confirmed and the case where a deposit was observed in a position corresponding to the image was defined as filming b . In that case the level on which the generation of streaks or white spots was observed but was tolerable is designated as b or b and the level on which the generation of streaks or white spots was intolerable is designated as b .

Furthermore the film shaving amount of the photoconductor was measured. The film shaving amount was measured by using an eddy current type film thickness meter manufactured by Ket Electronics Co. Ltd. The measurement was performed 30 times while arbitrarily altering the position and an average value of measured values of 20 times from the center was defined as a film thickness thereby measuring how the film was shaven from the photoconductor of the initial state. The results obtained are shown in .

With respect to the related art charging auxiliary particle made of only zinc oxide in the combination with the photoconductor A having a charge injection layer the image state was on the a level from the initial stage and after printing of approximately 10 000 sheets filming occurred and the image state was on the b level. In addition after printing of 20 000 sheets both the streaks and the filming progressed and the image state reached the level and after printing of 30 000 sheets the image state reached an intolerable level.

On the other hand in the case of the charging roller using the charging auxiliary particle of the invention as shown in Test Nos. 33 and 34 in all of the photoconductors A and B after printing of 50 000 sheets the image state did not reached an intolerable level.

With respect to the film shaving amount of the photoconductor in Test No. 34 it becomes an approximately half value as compared with the case of using a blade cleaner Test No. 5 see the lowermost row in the table of . In the light of the above according to the present embodiment even in the case of employing a cleaner less process the charging unit is hardly stained and the generation of filming of the photoconductor can be prevented without largely shaving the photoconductor an aspect of which is an original purpose of the cleaner less process.

In particular such effects became remarkable in the case of using a material in which the photoconductive surface is hardly shaven. When an inorganic photoconductor containing a Si as a major component or a hole transporting material containing a chain polymerizable functional group is used as the photoconductor with high durability the surface hardness of the photoconductor is high so that scratches are hardly formed and a long life of the photoconductor is achieved. In using such a photoconductor when the charging auxiliary particle of the invention is used the adhered toner component is stably removed from the photoconductor without substantial shaving of the photoconductor itself whereby the filming of the photoconductor can be prevented.

Incidentally in the image forming apparatus according to the present embodiment the photoconductive drum and at least one of the charging device and the development unit are integrally supported as a process unit U which is made attachable to or detachable from the main body of the image forming apparatus .

As illustrated in in the present embodiment the process unit U is provided with the photoconductive drum the charging device and the development unit as one example. As a matter of course the process unit U can also be configured to include other portions than the foregoing in response to a space restriction in the image forming apparatus or the arrangement of parts or the like.

Furthermore in the foregoing embodiments while the image forming apparatus which is of an intermediate transfer system for temporarily transferring a toner image formed on a photoconductor onto an intermediate transfer belt has been described as an example it should not be construed that the invention is limited thereto. The image forming apparatus may be of other intermediate transfer system for temporarily transferring a toner image formed on a photoconductor onto an intermediate transfer roller or of a direct transfer system for directly transferring a toner image on a photoconductor onto a sheet.

Furthermore with respect to the development system of toner image a so called quadruple tandem system for forming a toner image of plural colors at once on an intermediate transfer body rotating once a four rotation intermediate transfer system for successively forming a toner image of each color on an intermediate transfer body rotating four times and the like can be employed.

Furthermore in the foregoing embodiments while the configuration of supplying a charging auxiliary particle to a charging member by a supplying roller configuration of supplying a charging auxiliary particle onto a charging roller surface by a supply roller and carrying the charging auxiliary particle to a charging position by the charging roller itself has been described as an example it should not be construed that the invention is limited thereto. In particular in the configuration as illustrated in the charging auxiliary particle may be directly supplied to the position at which the charging member comes into contact with the photoconductive drum by using a conveyance unit such as an auger and a roller.

For example by bringing a mechanism for supplying the charging auxiliary particle to the charging roller into contact with the photoconductive surface as it is and achieving it just before a charging unit for example a blade the photoconductive surface to which the charging auxiliary particle adheres penetrates into the charging section and a part of the charging auxiliary particle remains in the charging section whereas the non residual charging auxiliary particle passes therethrough. In any way the charging auxiliary particle is thoroughly supplied in the charging section. On that occasion in particular in the case where the photoconductor is in a drum shape the supply roller of the charging auxiliary particle is preferably an elastic roller taking into consideration the contact.

Furthermore according to the present embodiment for the purpose of charging the image carrying surface of the image carrier there can be provided a charging method of supplying a charging auxiliary particle made of a conductive particle having a diamond particle contained therein in a portion of a charging member coming into contact with an image carrying surface of an image carrier which comes into contact with the image carrying surface for charging the image carrying surface and applying a prescribed bias voltage to the charging member in a state that the charging auxiliary particle is mediated between the charging member and the image carrier thereby charging the surface of the image carrier.

A charging auxiliary particle of the related art was a particle such as a single body of a metal oxide such as zinc oxide or a compound thereof and a resin mixed or coated with carbon black etc. On the other hand since the diamond fine particle has a strong characteristic of charging a contacted subject to negative polarity not only it exhibits good injection charging characteristics but also even when intermixed in the development unit it does not largely influence a toner so far as the charging characteristic of the toner is negative polarity.

Furthermore the diamond fine particle has a stable polishing action because of its high hardness. In particular in the case where the diamond fine particle is employed in a cleaner less process the generation of adhesion filming of the toner component the separated toner external additive and the like to the photoconductive surface can be inhibited and the exchange life of the photoconductor can be prolonged.

By using a contact charging unit using the charging auxiliary particle according to the invention it is possible to stably charge the photoconductor at a low applied voltage. In addition even when the charging auxiliary particle is intermixed in the development unit it does not substantially influence the characteristics of the developing agent. Accordingly it is possible to keep a stable high image quality over a long period of time.

Moreover it is possible to prevent a filming phenomenon in which a wax component in the toner the separated external additive and the like adhere to the photoconductive surface from occurring due to a polishing action against the photoconductive surface. In particular it is effective to use the charging auxiliary agent according to the invention in a cleaner less process.

In the light of the above according to the present embodiments it is possible to provide a charging technology using a charging auxiliary particle in which injection charging can be achieved more stably even when a charging auxiliary particle is mixed in a development unit so far as its amount is a little it does not substantially influence charging characteristics of a toner and the like.

While the invention has been described in detail and with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

As described above in detail according to the invention it is possible to provide a technology capable of realizing a stable charging performance in an image forming apparatus employing a contact charging system.

