---

title: Heater assembly for deicing and/or anti-icing a component
abstract: A heater assembly for deicing and/or anti-icing a component includes a metallic heating element adjacent to a densely woven fabric layer impregnated with a resin that is capable of withstanding temperatures of up to 550° F. (288° C.).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07789620&OS=07789620&RS=07789620
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 07789620
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070705
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract number N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the U.S. Navy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to a heater assembly. More particularly the present invention relates to an electrothermal heater assembly that is suitable for removing and or preventing ice accumulation on a gas turbine engine component.

It is desirable to minimize or prevent the formation of ice on certain components of a gas turbine engine in order to avoid problems attributable to ice accumulation. For example if ice forms on air intake components the flow of air into the gas turbine engine compressor may become obstructed which then adversely affects engine operation and efficiency. Furthermore chunks of ice that break loose from a gas turbine engine component during operation can damage other parts of the engine.

There are many existing methods of removing or preventing the formation of ice on gas turbine engine components. Among these methods is the incorporation or embedding of an electrothermal heating element into a gas turbine engine component that is susceptible to ice formation. The heating element may also be applied to a surface of the component. The heating element heats the susceptible areas of the component in order to help prevent ice from forming. The heating element may be a metallic heating element e.g. a foil element formed of stainless steel copper wire cloth etc. which typically converts electrical energy into heat energy.

The metallic heating element is typically a part of a heater assembly that also includes a thermally conductive fabric layer attached to and supporting the heating element. For example the heater assembly may be formed of a metallic heating element embedded into an epoxy fiber reinforced composite structure. In some cases the fabric layer also electrically insulates an electrically conductive component from the heating element. Typically multiple plies of fabric are required for sufficient electrical isolation of the metallic heater element.

When the heater assembly is embedded in a composite structure of some gas turbine engine components the heater assembly replaces some structural elements of the composite in order to maintain the dimensions of the component. In those cases the heating element accounts for a percentage of the composite structure that forms the component. This may affect the strength and the structural characteristics such as the transfer of structural loads of the component. The larger the percentage the heater assembly constitutes the larger the reduction in composite strength of the gas turbine engine component.

In order to increase the strength of the component that includes the heater assembly it is desirable to reduce the amount of space the heater assembly takes up in the component. One way of achieving the reduction in space is by reducing the thickness of the heater assembly.

The present invention is a heater assembly suitable for deicing and or anti icing a gas turbine engine component. The heater assembly includes a metallic heating element and a densely woven fabric layer impregnated with a high temperature resin capable of withstanding temperatures of up to 550 F. 288 C. .

The present invention is an electrothermal heater assembly that includes a metallic heating element and a densely woven fabric layer impregnated with a high temperature resin that is capable of withstanding operating temperatures of up to 550 F. 288 C. . The resin reinforces the fabric layer. The metallic heating element is attached to the fabric layer using a thermoset adhesive and is electrically connected to a source of electrical power using any suitable conductor such as a wire or flexible circuit. In one embodiment the resin that is introduced into the fabric layer is also the thermoset adhesive that adheres the metallic heating element to the fabric layer.

The heater assembly of the present invention is suitable for incorporating or embedding into a composite structure of a component i.e. an internal application including a gas turbine engine component or for attaching to a surface of a component i.e. an external application in order to deice the component and or prevent ice from forming thereon. The heater assembly may also be used in a hybrid configuration which includes both internal and external applications. The component may be any component that is susceptible to ice formation. For example the component may be an aircraft component or a gas turbine engine component such as but not limited to a vane an airfoil leading edge a front bearing of the engine a structural strut that supports the front bearing and a duct. The component may be formed of materials such as but not limited to fiberglass metal or carbon composite.

Fabric layer includes about 45 to about 70 percent by volume of a fabric and about 30 to about 55 percent by volume of the high temperature resin. In one embodiment fabric layer includes about 55 to about 60 percent by volume of the fabric and about 40 to about 45 percent by volume of the high temperature resin. Suitable fabrics for including in fabric layer include densely woven materials that have a continuous fiber. Preferably the fabric is not easily distorted and maintains its weave pattern prior to and during the introduction of resin into the fabric during manufacture of heater assembly . Examples of suitable densely woven materials that may be used include a fiberglass fabric such as Style 106 which is made commercially available by Clark Schwebel Tech Fab Company of Anderson S.C. and a polymer film such as Kapton which is made commercially available by DuPont High Performance Materials of Circleville Ohio.

Fabric layer acts as a backing material to support heating elements and in some embodiments also acts as a structural element of a component if heater assembly is embedded in the component . Because fabric layer supports heating elements it may also be referred to as a structural layer. Some heating elements require a backing material because they are thin and fragile and as a result cannot be easily handled during the manufacturing process. For example heater assembly may be etched into a shape prior to application in or on a component. The shape typically depends upon the type of component and the area of the component that requires deicing and or anti icing. Some of these fragile heating elements tend to break apart during the etching process without a backing material i.e. fabric layer . Fabric layer contributes to the mechanical integrity of heating elements .

In comparison to many fabric layers in existing heating assemblies fabric layer of the present invention is load bearing and more stiff due to the type of the fabric that is selected for including in fabric layer . As a result if heater assembly is embedded into a component fabric layer contributes to the structural integrity of the component and can act as a structural element of the component rather than merely taking up space in the component that could be occupied by a structural element. The fabric material included in fabric layer may also constitute all or substantially all of the structural material in a composite component such as a vane.

In some embodiments fabric layer is also electrically insulating and configured to electrically insulate an electrically conductive component such as one formed of a carbon composite or a metal alloy from metallic heating elements while at the same time thermally conduct heat generated by heating elements . In situations where fabric layer also electrically insulates heating elements it is desirable for the fabric material forming fabric layer to be woven tightly enough to be electrically insulating. Electrically insulating materials that may be used to form fabric layer include fiberglass Nextel or another suitable ceramic fiber fabric.

A thickness of heater assembly is minimized because fabric layer is thinner than many existing heating assemblies which include structural layers that are about 0.020 inches 0.0508 centimeters thick. In contrast heater assembly of the present invention includes fabric layer that is less than about 0.005 inches 0.0127 centimeters thick. In one embodiment fabric layer is about 0.003 inches 0.00762 centimeters to about 0.005 inches 0.0127 centimeters thick. Given the increased structural integrity of fabric layer and in some embodiments its ability to electrically insulate heating elements it has been found that only one layer of material is typically required to form fabric layer . Of course fabric layer may also be formed of multiple layers of material.

If fabric layer is also an electrically insulating layer the thickness of fabric layer varies depending on the voltage feeding heating elements . When heater assembly is embedded in a component the amount of structural material of the component that is displaced by heater assembly is reduced because the thickness of heater assembly is reduced. Furthermore as previously discussed fabric layer is also load bearing and in some embodiments is a suitable structural substitution for structural elements of the component. As a result the component is more structurally sound than a similar component that incorporates an existing heater assembly. Reducing a thickness of fabric layer of heater assembly helps reduce the weight of heater assembly which may be desirable in the case of gas turbine engine components which are used in aircrafts.

Those skilled in the art recognize that it is important for heater assembly to distribute heat substantially evenly. Thermal conductivity of fabric layer contributes to the even distribution of heat that is generated by heating elements . In the embodiment of fabric layer exhibits a thermal conductivity value of 10.1 BTU in hr ft F. 1.45 W m K .

In many existing heating assemblies that include structural layers having a thickness of about 0.020 inches 0.0508 centimeters or greater the heating assemblies include thick heating elements in order to achieve the necessary operating temperatures through the thick fabric layers. It has been found that is difficult to incorporate these heating assemblies into a component having a small radius e.g. less than about 0.50 inches 1.27 centimeters because the thick heating elements fracture upon bending around a radius of less than about 0.50 inches 1.27 centimeters . Heater assembly in accordance with the present invention however is more flexible than many of these existing heating assemblies due to the thinner fabric layer . In combination with suitably thin metallic heating elements e.g. about 0.5 mils 0.00127 centimeters to about 40 mils 0.1016 centimeters heater assembly can be used with components having a small radius while retaining the full capability of heater assembly .

Metallic heating elements are resistive heating elements such as titanium stainless steel copper or wire cloth heating elements which convert electrically energy into thermal heat as is known in the art. Although illustrates four heating elements heater assembly may include any number of heating elements and those skilled in the art can modify the number of heating elements depending upon the specific application of heater assembly . Heating elements are each electrically connected to an electrical power source using any suitable conductor such as a wire or a flexible circuit. Various power arrangements may be used to provide power to heating elements of heater assembly . For example heating elements may be electrically connected to one another or each of the heating elements may be separately electrically connected to the power source. The electrical energy may be intermittently or continuously supplied to heating elements depending upon whether a deicing or anti icing function is desired. Typically in the case of a deicing function power is intermittently supplied to heating elements whereas in an anti icing function power is continuously supplied to heating elements .

Metallic heating elements each include a watt density in a range of about 1 to about 50 watts in 7.75 watts cm . The watt density however varies depending on the particular application of heater assembly . Similarly in some embodiments the watt density varies between heating elements . In some situations it may be desirable for more heat to be applied to one area than to an adjacent area. This is often referred to as zone heating. To achieve zone heating heater assembly includes at least two heating elements having different watt densities. The zone heating may require a secondary power distribution system in order to vary the power distribution between heating elements .

Metallic heating elements are capable of operating at temperatures of up to 550 F. 288 C. due to the high temperature resin that impregnates fabric layer . Many existing heating assemblies include a structural layer impregnated with a resin such as epoxy that is unable to withstand temperatures greater than 300 F. 148.89 C. . In those cases the integrity of the fabric layer is compromised and the heating elements may become detached from the fabric layer if the heater assembly operates at temperatures greater than 300 F. 148.89 C. and if the heater assembly is exposed to temperatures greater than 300 F. 148.89 C. . The high temperature resin in heater assembly however is able to withstand temperatures of up to 550 F. 288 C. thereby helping to maintain the integrity of heater assembly at temperatures greater than 550 F. 288 C. .

The ability of heater assembly to withstand and operate at higher temperatures increases the number of applications heater assembly may be used in because heater assembly may be used to deice anti ice gas turbine engine components that operate at temperatures greater than 300 F. 148.89 C. . Many existing heating assemblies that use resin that cannot withstand temperatures greater than about 300 F. 148.89 C. will fail and be unable to deice and anti ice components that operate at higher operating temperatures i.e. the temperatures between 300 F. 148.89 C. and up to 550 F. 288 C. .

In one method of forming heater assembly a layer of thermoset adhesive is applied to a ply of high density material that forms fabric layer . Heating elements are then positioned on the layer of thermoset adhesive and positioned with respect to one another as desired. High temperature resin is then injected into the material thereby impregnating the material with the resin and forming fabric layer . The resin and thermoset adhesive are then cured and as a result heating elements are adhered to fabric layer after the curing step. The resulting heater assembly may then be etched into a shape suitable for the specific application of heater assembly .

A method similar to the method discussed above in reference to heater assembly may be used to form heater assembly . However a second ply of material is positioned adjacent to heating elements so that heating elements are sandwiched between the plies of material. The high temperature resin is then injected into the plies of material and the resin is cured. The cured resin adheres heating elements to fabric layer .

The first embodiment of heater assembly may also be modified to include a second fabric layer to electrically insulate heating elements . However because a separate thermoset adhesive is used in heater assembly a second layer of thermoset adhesive is used to adhere heating elements to the second fabric layer.

A heater assembly in accordance with the present invention e.g. heater assemblies and may be embedded in a composite component. illustrates an embodiment of a composite component that includes a heater assembly. is a perspective view of airfoil where a portion of body of airfoil has been cutaway along leading edge to expose heater assembly . Body of airfoil is a composite structure and heater assembly is embedded in body as part of the composite. Heater assembly is similar to heater assembly of and includes fabric layer embedded with a high temperature resin and heating elements in phantom which are attached to fabric layer using a thermoset adhesive. As shown fabric layer is positioned between the exterior surface of body and heating elements . However other configurations are also contemplated.

Airfoil is a gas turbine engine component and may be for example an airfoil in a compressor. If the gas turbine engine is used in an aircraft moisture may accumulate on leading edge of airfoil and as the aircraft reaches higher elevations and the atmospheric temperature decreases the moisture may turn into ice. In order to prevent the accumulation of ice i.e. anti ice along leading edge of airfoil or remove the ice i.e. deice therefrom heater assembly is embedded in leading edge . As heating elements receive electrical energy from an external power source not shown heating elements convert the electrical power into thermal energy thereby heating leading edge of airfoil . Leading edge of airfoil is heated sufficiently enough to melt any accumulated ice and or prevent ice from forming on leading edge .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of description not limitation. Specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as bases for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention. Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

