---

title: Configurable and flexible wireless link adaptation method and device
abstract: A method and apparatus for implementing user defined Link Adaptation solutions in a wireless system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07843874&OS=07843874&RS=07843874
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 07843874
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---
Link adaptation in a wireless system is part of radio resource management and may comprise a set of algorithms and parameters to optimize the utilization of an air interface and hardware and assure adequate radio link quality error bit rate . In the case of radio communication systems based on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.16 IEEE 802.16 standard it may be the primary responsibility of a base station controller BS to dynamically manage channel allocation subscriber SS transmission parameters such as transmit power modulation scheme and or error correction scheme and or subscriber handover. Such dynamic management by a BS may be based on measured link quality indicators. In this way radio resources may be efficiently allocated according to various radio conditions. In order to allocate available radio resources efficiently a BS may select transmission parameters from a variety of available modulation schemes subscriber transmission powers and error correction schemes such as forward error correction coding and repetition coding. At times it may be enough to adjust subscriber transmission power only. At other times modulation and coding may be adjusted as well. Standards such as IEEE 802.16 may define generic rules or procedures for radio bandwidth allocation and protocols for delivering information to participants. However standards do not define exactly how the radio resources should be allocated and how the transmission parameters should be set. Hardware and or software vendors may provide link adaptation methods enabling a BS to handle changes in radio conditions.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure claimed subject matter.

In the following description the phrase Link Adaptation is used throughout the text and is intended to refer to correction and or action taken in a wireless system to handle changes in radio conditions for uplink and downlink communications. The phrase Link Adaptation solution is used throughout the text and intended to refer to selection of one or more Link Adaptation corrections and or actions. The phrase Link Adaptation solution parameter s is used throughout the text and intended to refer to parameters related to Link Adaptation solutions. The terms hard code and source code are used interchangeably. The terms hard coding and hard coded are used to mean embedding or embedded data in the source code of a computer program. Additionally the term run time herein refers to a period of time when a computer program is in operation and program commands may be obeyed. The term compile time herein refers to a period of time when source code for a computer program is being compiled as in read in analyzed and translated to create an executable computer program. The terms layer up and or layer down herein refer to changing parameter sets used by a Correction and Action Policy CAP module when switching from one specific modulation and or coding scheme to another. The up direction denotes moving toward more efficient but less robust modulation and or coding while down denotes changing to less efficient but more robust modulation and coding scheme. The term scanning herein refers to listening to and or measuring the signal activity of one or more BS s to determine which BS the SS is receiving with the best quality. Scanning information may be used during a hand over procedure when the current BS is handing over the SS to the BS selected by the SS during the scanning.

WiMAX network may comprise a Network Access Provider NAP a visited Network Service Provider vNSP a home Network Service Provider hNSP and a subscriber station or mobile station SS . In a particular embodiment SS may be coupled to NAP . NAP may comprise Access Service Networks ASN and . Although ASN and may comprise the same or similar components further description of a particular embodiment of an ASN will refer only to ASN for clarity. However ASN may also comprise the same or similar components and capabilities disclosed herein with respect to ASN . In a particular embodiment ASN network may further comprise BS and coupled to Access Service Network Gateway ASN GW . ASN may be further connected to vNSP via Connectivity Service Network CSN . CSN may connect directly to the Internet or an Application Service Provider ASP allowing SS to access various services such as data voice and video. Additionally CSN may be connected to CSN in HNSP which may also be connected to the Internet or an ASP.

In a particular embodiment in WiMAX network a variety of interfaces may couple various network devices. For instance R interface may couple SS and ASN R interface may couple SS and CSN and or CSN R interface may couple ASN and CSN R interface may couple ASN and ASN R interface may couple vNSP and hNSP and R interface may couple base stations and to ASN GW . According to a particular embodiment the aforementioned interfaces may support various interconnect protocols. Such protocols may relate to the various network devices interconnected or to the particular plane in which the interface is operating. Further explanation of such network interfaces is beyond the scope of this disclosure and details have been omitted for clarity.

Referring still to in a particular embodiment BS and or BS may comprise Correction Action Policy CAP modules and or respectively. Such CAP modules and may be capable of Link Adaptation as discussed in detail with respect to . For the sake of clarity only BS and CAP module will be discussed in detail. However BS and CAP module may also comprise the same or similar components and capabilities disclosed with respect to BS and CAP module and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Continuing with in a particular embodiment at run time CAP module may be capable of processing input values received from various components of WiMAX network . In a particular embodiment CAP Module may enable a user to input configuration data defining Link Adaptation LA parameters referred to as CAP Layers not shown CAP Areas not shown and CAP Action Sets not shown . In so doing a user may specify a number of customized correction and or action policies describing how to handle changes in radio conditions for uplink and downlink communications between SS and BS . For instance a user may define LA solution parameters such as input value thresholds and or ranges modulation and coding parameters handover triggers and procedures transmission power level settings and or event parameters. In a particular embodiment because a user may define LA solution parameters at runtime this may reduce the need for hardware and or software vendors to provide customized LA solutions at compile time. According to a particular embodiment users may adapt CAP Module LA solution parameters to their needs by configuring it using their own configuration data. In a particular embodiment CAP Module may provide LA solutions that are highly configurable at runtime instead of a process fixed during compile time.

According to a particular embodiment CAP module may enable flexible and configurable LA in WiMAX network . CAP module may comprise a correction and or action policy process hard coded into BS software source code one or more CAP Layers run time parameter sets corresponding to particular modulation and or coding schemes. In a particular embodiment there may be separate CAP layers for uplink and downlink communications. In a particular embodiment a CAP Layer may further comprise one or more CAP Areas not shown comprising one or more CAP Action Sets. Such CAP Action Sets may comprise instructions for a particular correction and or action to be triggered or executed by CAP Module . According to a particular embodiment CAP Module may determine a correction and or action to be implemented by determining a subsequent CAP Layer determining a CAP Area within the determined CAP Layer and finally determining a CAP Action within the selected CAP Area. CAP Layers CAP Areas and CAP Actions may be determined based on input values. Determination of CAP Layers CAP Areas and CAP Actions is discussed in more detail with reference to for uplink communication and in for downlink communication.

In a particular embodiment a combination of CINR values and SS TX power values may point to a particular CAP Area within a CAP layer. Processing of a Received Signal Strength Indication RSSI input value by CAP Module may point to a particular CAP Action Set within the selected CAP Area. However these are merely examples of input values that may be used to select CAP layers CAP Areas and CAP Action Sets and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

Selection of a particular CAP Action Set within a CAP Area may be based on comparison of an RSSI value to a pre set threshold RSSI value and or a pre set range of RSSI values. For instance in a particular embodiment CAP Area may be selected based at least in part on CINR and SS TX power input values. CAP Area may comprise various CAP Action Sets such as CAP Action Set and CAP Action Set . CAP Action Sets and may comprise instructions for various LA corrections and or actions to be triggered or executed by CAP module . CAP module may process an RSSI input value and may select CAP Action Set based at least in part of comparison of RSSI input value to a pre set threshold RSSI value. However this is merely an example of CAP Areas and CAP Action Sets and input values that may be used for selection of CAP Areas and CAP Action Sets and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

In a particular embodiment CAP Action Set may comprise LA solution instructions for performing at least one of the following actions do nothing increase SS TX power for uplink communication decrease SS TX power for uplink communication increase boosting power for downlink communication decrease boosting power for downlink communication request starting of a hand over procedure request starting of a scanning action and or request a CAP layer change. In a particular embodiment current settings and state of wireless system may provide the most appropriate or efficient use of radio resources therefore doing nothing may be an appropriate LA solution. In a particular embodiment with respect to SS TX and or boosting power a user may configure the action to decide how much the power should be increased or decreased. In a particular embodiment a user may provide configuration data via a user interface application and may provide LA solution parameters to control a variety of settings such as events input value thresholds and ranges modulation and coding requirements handover requests and or SS transmission power or boosting power level settings. However these are merely examples of instructions for actions that a CAP Action Set may comprise and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

CAP Action Set may comprise instructions for a CAP layer change solution . In a particular embodiment moving from CAP Layer to CAP Layer may comprise a layer up action and may change the current modulation QPSK to a less robust modulation scheme 16QAM. Accordingly changing the modulation scheme may involve selection of another CAP Layer. A new CAP layer may comprise a different CAP Area layout with a different range CINR values and SS TX power values than the original CAP layer. CAP Action Sets may also vary between CAP layers because the new modulation scheme may require some other correction and or action as the result of the same input values. However this is merely an example of a CAP layer change and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

In a particular embodiment a user may define CAP Module LA solutions reducing the need for hardware and or software vendors to provide customized LA solutions at compile time. According to a particular embodiment a user may customize CAP Layers CAP Areas and CAP Action Sets by interfacing with UA through any of a variety of graphical user interface GUI set ups. For instance in a particular embodiment there may be a tool capable of converting user created drawings such as or to numerical values sets defining CAP Layers CAP Areas and CAP Action Sets. However this is merely an example of a GUI for a UA and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

In a particular embodiment CAP Module may process input values. Based at least in part on the received input data CAP Module may determine a correction and or action to be implemented by MAC . In a particular embodiment determining a correction and or action to be implemented may comprise determining a CAP Layer determining a CAP Area within the selected CAP Layer and determining a CAP Action within the selected CAP Area.

In a particular embodiment CAP may prepare correction and or action policy change requests for scheduler . Scheduler may notify UA of a CAP Module correction and or action policy decision. As discussed above such a correction and or action policy decision may be for instance that a condition has been met which requires starting of a hand over action that a condition has been met that requires starting of the scanning action and or that current CAP layer has or should be changed.

In a particular embodiment BSCP Functional Application Programming Interface BSCP FAPI may be an asynchronous interface. In a particular embodiment UA may comprise user written software implementing configuration and management functionality. UA may communicate with MAC via BSCP FAPI . In a particular embodiment in accordance with BSCP FAPI calls UA may initiate an action a request call . When the action is complete UA may receive a call back from Base Station Control plane comprising the result of the action. In a particular embodiment UA may receive an unsolicited call back an event . An event may be triggered by a user defined incident such as a change in the quality of the uplink signal. In a particular embodiment an event may be generated by micro engine and may send input data such as CINR and RSSI values to CAP Module . According to a particular embodiment when the computer system is booting UA may enforce proper configuration of underlying software. Such enforcing may include setting WiMAX parameters at like frame size setting the size of downlink and uplink portions of a frame setting the supported WiMAX options setting the statistics reporting options setting CAP Layer parameters and so on. In this way UA may set LA solution parameters and set initial conditions for CAP Module . However this is merely an example of a method of implementing configuration and management functionality in a wireless system and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

In a flowchart illustrates a particular embodiment of CAP process that may run in CAP module in BS shown in with two variants for uplink and downlink processing shown. In a particular embodiment CAP process begins within a particular CAP layer such as CAP layer as described above. In a particular embodiment an initial CAP Layer may comprise an initial modulation scheme such as a QPSK modulation scheme. An initial modulation scheme may be determined by a variety of methods. However this is merely an example of an initial state for a CAP process and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

According to a particular embodiment CAP process may determine an appropriate correction and or action to take by determining which CAP Area within the current CAP Layer to query for an applicable CAP Action Set. Such determining may be based at least in part on input values such as for instance CINR SS TX power or boosting level and RSSI values.

In processing block a predefined event sends CINR and RSSI values to CAP Module . Such an event may comprise a variety of parameters and may be related to a change of the quality of an uplink or downlink signal. In a particular embodiment a user may define event parameters when setting configuration data defining LA solution parameters. According to a particular embodiment CINR and RSSI values may be sent from a variety of devices such as microengines and or an averager for instance to CAP module . In a particular embodiment an event triggering change in the link quality may be measured by a variety of standards. Such as for instance a change in link quality may be measured over time or may be an instantaneous measure of link quality. Such standards may be user defined. However these are merely examples of CAP process input values and events and claimed subject matter is not so limited.

In processing block CAP Module may read CINR value and current SS TX power value and or a current boosting level depending on whether operation is taking place in an uplink or downlink case. In processing block CAP Module may correlate CINR value and current SS TX power value and or a current boosting level to a CAP Area. At decision block CAP Module may determine whether a CAP Area can be found. If CAP Area is not found CAP process flows to block and an error is reported to UA . If a CAP Area is identified then CAP process flows to decision block where RSSI input value may be compared to a pre set threshold value T to determine a CAP Action Set. In a particular embodiment a CAP Action Set may comprise instructions such as change SS TX power or boosting power by X dB request starting of hand over procedure request starting of a scanning action request a CAP layer change which may change the modulation scheme. According to a particular embodiment a user may define LA solution parameters and correction and or actions instructions associated with CAP Action Sets. In a particular embodiment if RSSI value is greater than or equal to T CAP process may flow to processing block where CAP Module may read CAP Action Set instruction defined for RSSI value being greater than or equal to T. If RSSI value is less then T CAP process may flow to processing block where CAP Module may read CAP Action Set instruction defined for RSSI value being less than T. At decision block CAP process may flow to one or more correction and or action processes.

In a particular embodiment a CAP Action Set determined based at least in part on RSSI input value may indicate that a change in SS TX power and or boosting power is an appropriate LA action. At processing block current SS TX power and or boosting level may be updated. At processing block a new configuration may be sent to the data plane. In the case of an uplink correction at processing block a new power correction may be sent to a SS .

In a particular embodiment a CAP Action Set determined based at least in part on RSSI input value may indicate that handover is an appropriate LA action. In processing block handover may be reported to UA .

In a particular embodiment a CAP Action Set determined based at least in part on RSSI input value may indicate that a layer change is an appropriate LA action. At decision block if a new layer is found and CAP process flows to block updating the current layer variable to UA and further continues to processing block where a new layer configuration is sent to UA data plane. If a new layer is not found an error is reported to UA at block .

While certain features of claimed subject matter have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such embodiments and changes as fall within the spirit of claimed subject matter.

