---

title: Search-based filtering for property grids
abstract: Technologies for search-based filtering of a property grid. Such filtering allows a user to enter a search term into an easily recognized search text box, or apply a user or pre-defined term to a property grid, thus reducing the set of properties visible so that the user has a smaller list to search to find the one on which they desire to operate. The search term is typically applied to all properties shown in the property grid. Elements that match the search term are made visible in an updated property grid while those that do not match are not presented. Also, the search term may be applied to more than just the name of the property. It may be applied to a category within which the property appears, the type of the property, or any of a number of attributes or tags that may be applied to the property.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07890523&OS=07890523&RS=07890523
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07890523
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070628
---
It is common for user interface design and development tools to make use of a property grid to provide a user one place to look for the properties of selected objects. Via such a property grid the user can inspect the values of properties and edit properties as appropriate. While such a property grid allows the user to easily discover where a property can be edited there are often so many properties that the user must spend time finding the particular property that he wants to inspect or edit.

Some property grids attempt to mitigate this problem by providing two views of the property grid a first view that is categorized such that if the user can find the category for the property he wants to edit then the number of properties that they have to search is reduced to only those in the category and a second view that is arranged alphabetically by property name allowing the user to search visually if he knows the name of the property.

There are several issues with this approach. First the user can only effectively search the categorized view if he knows how to categorize the property for which he is looking in the same way that the creators of the categorization did. For this reason most users tend to use a property grid in the alphabetically sorted view. But in the alphabetically sorted view the user must first know the name of the property and then visually search a long list of entries to find the property for which they are looking. This adds overhead or cognitive load to every operation the user wishes to perform in the property grid.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key critical elements of the invention or delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

To solve the problems described herein above the present examples provide search based filtering of a property grid. Such filtering allows the user to enter a search term into an easily recognized search text box or apply a user or pre defined term to a property grid thus reducing the set of properties visible so that the user has a smaller list to search to find the one on which they desire to operate. The search term is typically applied to all properties shown in the property grid. Elements that match the search term are made visible in an updated property grid while those that do not match are not presented. Also the search term may be applied to more than just the name of the property. It may be applied to a category within which the property appears the type of the property or any of a number of attributes or tags that may be applied to the property.

Many of the attendant features will be more readily appreciated as the same become better understood by reference to the following detailed description considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The detailed description provided below in connection with the accompanying drawings is intended as a description of the present examples and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present examples may be constructed or utilized. The description sets forth at least some of the functions of the examples and or the sequence of steps for constructing and operating examples. However the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by different examples.

Although the present examples are described and illustrated herein as being implemented in a computing environment the environment described is provided as an example and not a limitation. As those skilled in the art will appreciate the present examples are suitable for application in a variety of different types of computing environments.

SBF system typically includes a search string parser SSP that accepts search term . Search term may be a single or compound term. For example a user may filter a property grid using the search term width . Alternatively the user may filter based on several terms such as width height depth . SSP generally parses the search term string provided by the user into filter providing input validation and error checking as is common in the art.

SBF system also typically includes filter that maintains a set of search predicates based on the parses search term string provided by SSP . Filter may be applied to an input property grid to search for elements matching the search predicates. For example given the search term width a single search predicate representing the term width is maintained by filter . Alternatively for given the search term width height depth three search terms are maintained one for width a second for height and a third for depth . Filter generally searches the input property grid for metadata that either match or contain the search predicates. In one example such metadata may include properties names categories and or types. Additionally or alternatively other metadata may be used.

In one example SBF system includes ApplyFilter Method AFM . In this example AFM checks with filter to see if a match exists between the search term and each property of each category that is currently editable. Generally a category is editable if it is currently presented in property grid such as when an associated object is selected in a host UI tool. For each category or property match the result is stored in search results data store SRDS . Upon completion of the matching by AFM SBF system updates the property grid with the results stored in SRDS resulting in updated property grid . SRDS may be any suitable data storage mechanism coupled to SBF system and may or may not be an integral component of SBF system .

A property editor is typically some form of edit control used to edit a property value such as the input field of Width property shown containing the value . As used herein the term property editor generally refers to a UI mechanism operable to display the name or identifier or the like of the property along with a means of editing the property value. Such an editing means may be a simple edit field or input field or the like or a sophisticated graphical editing mechanism or any other appropriate editing means.

Blocks and typically indicate applying a filter to each category of the input property grid. In one example the filter iterates over each category associated with the currently selected objects. For each such category method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates applying the filter to the category to test for a search predicate match. Testing is generally performed for each search predicate. In one example testing for a match is performed on multiple pieces of metadata associated with the category including category name and type. Alternatively or additionally other metadata may be tested. If there is a match method typically continues at block otherwise method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates marking the matching category. In one example this includes storing information about the matching category in a data store such as SRDS of . Once marked method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates applying a filter to each property of the current category per block matching or not per block of the input property grid. In one example the filter iterates over each property associated with the currently selected objects. For each such property method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates applying the filter to the property to test for a search predicate match. Testing is generally performed for each search predicate. In one example testing for a match is performed on multiple pieces of metadata associated with the property including property name category and type. Alternatively or additionally other metadata may be tested. In one example if a search predicate is located in a tested piece of metadata the property is considered matching. For example the advanced property name MaxWidth is considered a match to the search predicate width . Note that case may be ignored. If there is a match method typically continues at block otherwise method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates marking the matching property. In one example this includes storing information about the matching property in a data store such as SRDS of . Once marked method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates determining is the matching property is an advanced property. If the property is advanced then method typically continues at block otherwise the matching property is a common property and method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates marking the category associated with the advanced property as including a matching advanced property. In one example this includes storing information about the category and matching advanced property in a data store such as SRDS of . Once marked method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates marking the category associated with the common property as including a matching advanced property. In one example this includes storing information about the category and matching advanced property in a data store such as SRDS of . Once marked method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates iterating through all properties of the current category per block . For the next property iteration typically continues at block . Once all properties have been iterated method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates notifying any custom property editors associated with the current category of any related category and or property matches. Such a notification may be used by a custom editor to appropriately configure UI attributes such as tabs containing matching properties etc. Such notifications are generally provided by the present invention. Such configuration is generally a function of the editor and not of the present invention. A custom property editor is generally an editor not native to a property grid. Once appropriate notifications have been provided method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates iterating through all categories of the input property grid. For the next category iteration typically continues at block . Once all categories have been iterated method typically continues at block .

Block typically indicates updating the property grid based on the filtering results. In one example this includes reading filter results including information about matching categories and properties from a data store such as SRDS of . In general the updated property grid presents only those categories and or properties matching the search term. In one example the property grid will continue to present a filtered view so long as the search term field i.e. search term field of includes an input value. Once the search term field is cleared the property grid reverts back to its original state.

Computing environment typically includes a general purpose computing system in the form of a computing device coupled to various components such as peripheral devices and the like. System may couple to various other components such as input devices including voice recognition touch pads buttons keyboards and or pointing devices such as a mouse or trackball via one or more input output I O interfaces . The components of computing device may include one or more processors including central processing units CPU graphics processing units GPU microprocessors P and the like system memory and a system bus that typically couples the various components. Processor typically processes or executes various computer executable instructions to control the operation of computing device and to communicate with other electronic and or computing devices systems or environment not shown via various communications connections such as a network connection or the like. System bus represents any number of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a serial bus an accelerated graphics port a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures and the like.

System memory may include computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM or flash memory FLASH . A basic input output system BIOS may be stored in non volatile or the like. System memory typically stores data computer executable instructions and or program modules comprising computer executable instructions that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on by one or more of the processors .

Mass storage devices and may be coupled to computing device or incorporated into computing device via coupling to the system bus. Such mass storage devices and may include non volatile RAM a magnetic disk drive which reads from and or writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from and or writes to a non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM . Alternatively a mass storage device such as hard disk may include non removable storage medium. Other mass storage devices may include memory cards memory sticks tape storage devices and the like.

Any number of computer programs files data structures and the like may be stored in mass storage other storage devices and system memory typically limited by available space including by way of example and not limitation operating systems application programs data files directory structures computer executable instructions and the like.

Output components or devices such as display device may be coupled to computing device typically via an interface such as a display adapter . Output device may be a liquid crystal display LCD . Other example output devices may include printers audio outputs voice outputs cathode ray tube CRT displays tactile devices or other sensory output mechanisms or the like. Output devices may enable computing device to interact with human operators or other machines systems computing environments or the like. A user may interface with computing environment via any number of different I O devices such as a touch pad buttons keyboard mouse joystick game pad data port and the like. These and other I O devices may be coupled to processor via I O interfaces which may be coupled to system bus and or may be coupled by other interfaces and bus structures such as a parallel port game port universal serial bus USB fire wire infrared IR port and the like.

Computing device may operate in a networked environment via communications connections to one or more remote computing devices through one or more cellular networks wireless networks local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN storage area networks SAN the Internet radio links optical links and the like. Computing device may be coupled to a network via network adapter or the like or alternatively via a modem digital subscriber line DSL link integrated services digital network ISDN link Internet link wireless link or the like.

Communications connection such as a network connection typically provides a coupling to communications media such as a network. Communications media typically provide computer readable and computer executable instructions data structures files program modules and other data using a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. The term modulated data signal typically means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection or the like and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared or other wireless communications mechanisms.

Power source such as a battery or a power supply typically provides power for portions or all of computing environment . In the case of the computing environment being a mobile device or portable device or the like power source may be a battery. Alternatively in the case computing environment is a desktop computer or server or the like power source may be a power supply designed to connect to an alternating current AC source such as via a wall outlet.

Some mobile devices may not include many of the components described in connection with . For example an electronic badge may be comprised of a coil of wire along with a simple processing unit or the like the coil configured to act as power source when in proximity to a card reader device or the like. Such a coil may also be configure to act as an antenna coupled to the processing unit or the like the coil antenna capable of providing a form of communication between the electronic badge and the card reader device. Such communication may not involve networking but may alternatively be general or special purpose communications via telemetry point to point RF IR audio or other means. An electronic card may not include display I O device or many of the other components described in connection with . Other mobile devices that may not include many of the components described in connection with by way of example and not limitation include electronic bracelets electronic tags implantable devices and the like.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to provide computer readable and computer executable instructions and data can be distributed over a network. For example a remote computer or storage device may store computer readable and computer executable instructions in the form of software applications and data. A local computer may access the remote computer or storage device via the network and download part or all of a software application or data and may execute any computer executable instructions. Alternatively the local computer may download pieces of the software or data as needed or distributively process the software by executing some of the instructions at the local computer and some at remote computers and or devices.

Those skilled in the art will also realize that by utilizing conventional techniques all or portions of the software s computer executable instructions may be carried out by a dedicated electronic circuit such as a digital signal processor DSP programmable logic array PLA discrete circuits and the like. The term electronic apparatus may include computing devices or consumer electronic devices comprising any software firmware or the like or electronic devices or circuits comprising no software firmware or the like.

The term firmware typically refers to executable instructions code data applications programs or the like maintained in an electronic device such as a ROM. The term software generally refers to executable instructions code data applications programs or the like maintained in or on any form of computer readable media. The term computer readable media typically refers to system memory storage devices and their associated media and the like.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of the present invention and the forgoing examples may be applied it should be recognized that the examples described herein are meant to be illustrative only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the present invention. Therefore the invention as described herein contemplates all such embodiments as may come within the scope of the following claims and any equivalents thereto.

