---

title: Thermally controlled particulate core migration within polymer matrix
abstract: A composition is provided that includes a polymer matrix. A core having a core surface is embedded within the polymer matrix. A polymeric ligand passivates the core surface and has a moiety Y, where Y is a Diels-Alder group of a diene or dienophile. A polymeric linker has a complementary Diels-Alder group diene or dienophile to moiety Y and forms a Diels-Alder bond with the moiety Y. A composition is also provided that includes polymer matrix having a matrix surface. A core having a core surface is present on the matrix surface. A polymeric ligand passivates the core surface and has a moiety Y, where Y is Diels-Alder group of a diene or dienophile. The polymer matrix and polymeric ligand together define a matrix-ligand Flory-Huggins binary interaction function greater than 0.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07863376&OS=07863376&RS=07863376
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07863376
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070313
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention in general relates to a polymer matrix containing a core composition passivated with a ligand that is bound in a thermally reversible manner to a linker molecule and in particular to a core that changes miscibility in the matrix based on whether the linker is bound to the ligand.

The development of stimuli responsive films and surfaces has been explored and studied for many applications including tissue engineering 1 2 permeable membranes 3 and packaging materials 4 . These materials usually undergo some significant change in their physical properties due to a global stimulus such as temperature pH or light.

By carefully choosing the additive one can selectively manipulate specific physical properties including impact strength magnetic electronic and optical properties and conductivity.

Through deliberate materials design and engineering these changes in physical properties can be used to engineer a specific response to a specific trigger allowing the design of devices or systems which respond in a useful manner to changes in their environments without monitoring or activation.

For example by controlling the composition and molecular weight of core shell polymer nanoparticles one can manipulate processing parameters for thermoplastic elastomers 5 . Controlling the addition and dispersion of CaCO nanoparticles within PMMA matrices results in abrasion resistant polymer coatings 6 . Alumina and silica particles have commonly been utilized to manipulate tensile strength glass transition temperatures and impact strength 7 10 . Additionally various computer simulations have been employed to predict not only additive location but the potential impact upon physical property characteristics 11 14 .

A wide range of techniques have been utilized to study and prepare phase segregated polymer surfaces 5 17 . Koberstein et al. have prepared a variety of systems showing microphase separation of block copolymers driven by the immiscibility of the component blocks and focusing on the effects of variations in polymer architecture and composition 28 29 . Koberstein et al. demonstrated the mobilization also referred to as blooming of chain end fluorinated polystyrene PS to the surface of a poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS spin coated film. It was found that the key driving force for blooming is the reduction of surface energy. This approach has met with limited acceptance owing to the blooming of molecules occurring immediately upon processing rather it is desirable to control the timing of phase composition modification.

Kramer et al. have shown that the location of gold nanoparticles in a PS b poly 2 vinyl pyridine PS b P2VP copolymer is controlled by adjusting the ligand composition from 100 PS to a 1 1 molar mixture of PS and P2VP ligands or by decreasing amounts of only PS ligand used which results in the equilibrium location of the gold nanoparticles from the center of the PS domains to the interface between microphase separated PS and P2VP lamellae 30 31 . Again the location of the nanoparticle is determined a priori by ligand composition and coverage which affect particle size particle miscibility and the adsorption energy of the particle at the interface between microphase separated domains.

Thus there exists a need for a broadly applicable composition capable of migration within a polymer in response to a thermal stimulus matrix. Additionally there exists a need for a composition capable of self segregating to a polymeric matrix surface or migrating relative to other molecules of the composition in concert with a macromolecule particle to further modify the matrix surface without resorting to the application of subsequently applied coating.

A composition is provided that includes a polymer matrix. A core having a core surface is embedded within the polymer matrix. A polymeric ligand passivates the core surface and has a moiety Y where Y is a Diels Alder group of a diene or dienophile. A polymeric linker has a complementary Diels Alder group diene or dienophile to moiety Y and forms a Diels Alder bond with the moiety Y.

A composition is also provided that includes a polymer matrix having a matrix surface. A core having a core surface is present on the matrix surface. A polymeric ligand passivates the core surface and has a moiety Y where Y is Diels Alder group of a diene or dienophile. The polymer matrix and polymeric ligand together define a matrix ligand Flory Huggins binary interaction function greater than 0.

A process of thermally controlled particle core migration within a polymer matrix includes the distribution within a polymer matrix of multiple cores each of which being passivated with polymeric ligands that form thermodynamically reversible Diels Alder bonds with polymeric linkers within the polymer matrix. A thermal stimulus is provided to the polymer matrix to induce scission of the Diels Alder bonds formed between ligand and linkers. With sufficient time after Diels Alder bond scission the cores migrate within said polymer matrix to a thermodynamically stable position.

The present invention has utility in the controlled migration of a core embedded within a polymer matrix. The core is passivated with a ligand that reversibly forms a Diels Alder bond to a linker species in response to a thermal stimulus. By selecting Flory Huggins binary interaction functions for the ligand matrix and linker matrix the miscibility or immiscibility of the ligand and the attached core relative to the polymer matrix is changed with application of a thermal stimulus. In a simple form of the present invention the core passivating ligand is bonded to the linker by a Diels Alder bond with the linker having a negative value relative to the polymer matrix resulting in miscibility of the core ligand linker composition and after application of a thermal stimulus the Diels Alder bond is broken resulting in the miscible linker diffusing within the polymer matrix while the immiscible ligand having a positive value relative to the polymer matrix causes the core to bloom to the polymer matrix surface. The ability to carry a core or a species secured to the core to a matrix surface allows for efficient utilization of the core and surface modifying species attached to the core.

The ability to preferentially modify a matrix surface with a surface modifying species allows for efficient utilization of cores alone or in combination with an associated surface modifying species. Polymeric matrix materials operative according to the present invention include a variety of thermoplastic and thermoset systems in applications as diverse as bulk polymers polymer coatings fabrics fibers and composites. Cores alone or in combination with an associated surface modifying species offer the ability to render a matrix surface modified with respect to a variety of properties illustratively including scratch resistance biocidal nature optical properties recognition of specific molecules exposed to the surface tolerance towards an environmental factor such as ultraviolet light heat or corrosion. Additionally a second matrix immiscible with the polymer matrix is readily chosen to have a negative value relative to the ligand passivated core to induce bloom of the core from the immiscible polymer matrix into the second matrix in which the ligand passivated core is miscible.

Through adjustment of the relative miscibility of the ligand linker and one or more polymer matrices a core passivated by the ligand and embedded within a polymer matrix is readily driven to the surface of a polymer matrix driven into a polymer matrix from the surface or caused to agglomerate with other like or different core materials embedded within a polymer matrix in response to scission of a thermally reversible Diels Alder bond. While most specific ligand passivated core materials are synthesized separately and added to a polymer matrix it is appreciated that some core particles are synthesized and passivated in situ within the polymer matrix. By way of example metal particle precursors are amenable to being dispersed within a polymer matrix along with a reducing agent such as a polyol or alkylamine along with a polymer matrix miscible passivating agent or passivating agent ligand that associates with in situ synthesized core upon formation. Additionally a dendrimer core is also amenable to in situ formation within a polymer matrix through conventional oxazoline chemistry.

A core according to the present invention has a size of from 1 to 1000 nanometers linear dimension along the long axis of the core and is formed of any number of molecules such as dyes macromolecules such as polymers capsules containing a substance dendrimers polypeptides and polysaccharides microelectromechanical system MEMS structures and particles adhered to a polymeric ligand. Particle cores operative herein are synonymously described as nanoparticles or nanowires. It is appreciated that the rate of core migration is dictated by factors including size miscibility relative to a proximal polymer matrix and matrix viscosity at the migration temperature. Preferably the maximal linear dimension of particle cores used herein is between 4 and 100 nanometers. Core shapes illustratively include spherical oblate prolate cylindrical conical and combinations thereof. A core has a passivating ligand coating the particle. The exposed terminus of the passivating ligand includes a reactive Diels Alder moiety of either a diene or dienophile capable of forming a covalent Diels Alder bond with the inventive linker. Cores operative herein illustratively include colloidal silica silica alumina carbon black silica magnesia magnesium silicate magnetic cobalt containing alloys magnetic niobium containing alloys metals such as transition metals lanthanides main group V and VI metals or alloys of two or more aforementioned metals from transition lanthanide or main groups of the periodic table metal oxides sulfides carbides nitrides arsenides phosphides such as TiO ZnO WO SnO CaTiO FeO MoO NbO TixZrO SiC SrTiO CdS CdSexTe CdSe GaP InP GaAs BaTiO KNbO TaO BiO NiO CuO SiO MoS InPb RuO CeO Ti OH or TiN silicon fullerenes nanolatex epoxidized rubber polystyrene nanospheres encapsulated substances such as a liquid in a polymeric capsule and barium strontium titanate Ba Sr TiO.

A passivating polymeric ligand according to the present invention has the formula LRY I Where L is independently in each occurrence a moiety reactive with a core surface site and includes NHR imidazole R HS HO ROOC C R CR RC CH HC CR OCN XOC X Cl Br I R C N m is an integer 1 2 or 3 Ris independently in each occurrence hydrogen or C Calkyl Ris an electron hydrogen C Calkyl Ris a monomer that has a linear backbone of C Calkyl R Si O C Calkyl Q C Calkyl C Cglycol C Caryl C Ccycloalkyl ethers esters thioethers and amides of C Calkyl as well as substituted forms of any of the aforementioned Rmonomers to form a branched polymer or a cross linked polymer where a substituent for a proton is in one or more instances C Caryl C Calkyl or heteroatom containing alkyl or aryl substituents where the heteroatom is present as an amine phosphosate thiol alcohol carboxyl or the like Q is sulfur or oxygen n is an integer value between 10 and 1000 and preferably chosen to yield a ligand with a molecular weight of between 500 and 10 000 g mol. It is appreciated that while the value between a ligand passivated core and a polymer matrix is increased in absolute value with increasing value of n high n values decrease the kinetic mobility for a core migrating in a given matrix at a given temperature. Preferred values of n yield a ligand with a molecular weight of between 1000 and 8000 g mol. Y is a Diels Alder reactive moiety of a diene or a dienophile and p is an integer 1 2 or 3. Representative dienes and dienophiles illustratively include maleimide acid anhydrides furans and alkenes. It is appreciated that Y need not be terminal moiety and is optionally a pendent moiety.

The linker has a general formula Y R II where R in each occurrence is any one of the monomers detailed with respect to R Y is a complementary Diels Alder reactive moiety relative to Y of the ligand of Formula I and selected from the Y moieties listed such that Y is a dienophile when Y is a diene and vice versa n and p have the same values as detailed with respect to the ligand in Formula I . The linker preferably has a value with a surrounding polymer matrix dissimilar to that of the ligand in instances when migration of the core is desired into or out of the matrix based upon the presence of the Diels Alder bond.

The present invention resorts to Diels Alder chemistry to provide a bond that is subject to reversible scission in response to a thermal stimulus. Through control of and and a Diels Alder Y Y bond equilibrium as a function of temperature a ligand passivated core is induced to migrate in a polymer matrix with input of a thermal stimulus.

The nature of the polymer matrix is virtually without limit and need only be nonreactive with the ligand and linker. Representative polymer matrix materials illustratively include polyalkylenes polycarbonates polystyrene polyacrylates polyvinyl pyrrolidones polyureas polyurethanes polynitrites celluloses polyacrylamides polyacetones polybutadienes polymethamethacrylates polyacrylonitriles polyesters polyvinyl alcohols polyethers block copolymers emulsions or microemulsions of two or more of the above representative polymers.

It is appreciated that multiple ligands of Formula I are used to passivate a core and in such a case is a mass weighted sum of values associated with each of the individual ligands. Likewise multiple linkers at varying chemical composition from one another are used to form Diels Alder bonds Y Y with ligands. It is appreciated that through the selection of Diels Alder reaction moieties Y and Y that have different activation energies migration of a ligand passivated core is readily converted from a binary process of non migration or migration based on whether a thermal stimulus has been applied to a stepwise process with different temperatures resulting in a stepped core migration of a core so that the thermal reversibility temperature is reached for each Diels Alder bond present between ligand and linker type.

In addition to the use of a Diels Alder bond between the ligand and linker the present invention relies on an adjustment of miscibility differences between the ligand polymer matrix and linker polymer matrix to affect core migration in response to the direction of the Diels Alder reaction towards ligand linker bond formation or bond scission. A thermodynamic prediction estimate of miscibility of polymers is provided by the Flory Huggins theory which when applied to a system yields a function known as the Flory Huggins binary interaction parameter which nonetheless has a functional dependency on quantities such as temperature concentration pressure molar mass molar mass distribution and theoretical modeling parameters such as coordination number of the lattice and segment length. The operation of the Flory Huggins theory and the calculation of are well known to the art 34 35 . In brief assuming random mixing of two polymers and no change in volume associated with mixing the combinatorial entropy of mixing Sof the Flory Huggins theory is given by the equation 

For polymers having infinite molar mass i.e. ris infinite the entropic contribution is very small and the miscibility or immiscibility of the system mainly depends on the value of the enthalpy of mixing Equation IV . Miscibility is achieved only when is negative. Based on Flory Huggins theory Flory Huggins binary interaction parameters have been calculated for a variety of polymer blends 36 40 . By way of example relevant to a specific inventive system detailed in the following examples the Flory Huggins binary interaction parameter for polystyrene and polyethylene glycol is 0.0644 at 20 Celsius 41 while the value for polyethylene glycol and polymethyl methacrylate is 0.005 at 20 Celsius 42 .

Referring now to a polymer matrix has a core embedded therein. The core is passivated with a ligand . The ligand has a structure of Formula I and a polymeric portion R defining a Flory Huggins binary interaction function greater than 0 with the matrix . Optionally a surface modifying species is bonded to the core as provided to modify properties of matrix surface . The surface modifying species illustratively includes a chromophore protein antibody saccharide a nanoparticle a nanowire or a second type of core. As shown in a first polymer linker forms a Diels Alder bond with ligand through moieties Y and Y as detailed with respect to Formulae I and II. The Flory Huggins binary interaction function of the first linker with the polymer matrix is less than 0. Optionally a second polymer linker is provided that is compositionally distinct from the first linker and also forms Diels Alder bonds with the linker . The Flory Huggins binary interaction function between the second linker and the polymer matrix is less than 0. The proportion weighted sum of the first and second linkers and is less than 0 and manifests as miscibility for the linker bonded ligand core in the polymer matrix .

Upon heating the polymer matrix to a temperature for a sufficient amount of time the Diels Alder bond between ligand and first linker dissociates with the first linker diffusing within the matrix while the core optionally coupled to a surface modifying species and passivating with ligand in some instances remaining linked by a Diels Alder bond to the second linker while other Y moieties of ligand are exposed to the polymer matrix . With the loss of contribution of to the composite core ligand system the core is now less miscible with the matrix and has a modest tendency to phase separate to matrix surface . It is appreciated that the ratio of first linker to second linker and the value of are some of the factors relevant indicating the kinetics of core migration to matrix surface .

As seen in upon applying a quantity of thermal energy in the form of elevated temperature relative to that applied in the Diels Alder bonds between second linker and ligand dissociate and linker with miscibility with the matrix diffusing in the matrix . The core with optional surface modifying species and ligand has a positive Flory Huggins binary interaction function . As shown in the core with passivating ligand and optional surface modifying species is immiscible and migrates to the polymer matrix surface thereby exposing surface modifying species and selectively enriching the surface and core . As shown schematically the ligands potentially change conformation on the surface . While depict only a single type of core it is appreciated that cores of variable composition size or surface modifying species are also operative herein.

Polymer matrix with a modified surface as depicted in is readily applied as a coating on a piezoelectric crystal to form a sensor selective for species selectively bindable to a surface modifying species . By way of example a surface modifying species is an antibody selective for surface antigens of a spore. Surface modifying antibodies are protected within the polymer matrix having a prolonged storage lifetime and only exposed on the matrix surface in response to a desire to commence sampling a potentially contaminated medium such as air. Underlying piezoelectric sensing absorption of a spore through a change in piezoelectric oscillation frequency.

Referring now to where like numerals correspond to those used with respect to a polymer matrix is overlayered with multiple cores passivated with ligand where ligand varies from ligand in having Flory Huggins binary interaction function of less than 0 and ligands forming a Diels Alder bond with a linker where the linker differs from linker per in having a Flory Huggins binary interaction function with a polymer matrix of greater than 0 as shown in . Upon application of a quantity of thermal energy in the form of raising the temperature of matrix Diels Alder bond between linker and ligand is dissociated with the ligand passivated core now being miscible with the matrix while linker is immiscible with the matrix as shown in . With time the core passivated with ligand diffuses into matrix as shown in . As diffusion is a kinetically controlled process and the migration extent has a Brownian motion component upon allowing sufficient time for diffusion of core passivated with ligand into the matrix a matrix having a graded density of polymer cores therein is obtained as shown in . A core distribution graph is provided adjacent to to represent core density as a function of distance from matrix surface .

In instances where a high surface area matrix surface is desired that is populated with cores the present invention provides core migration in response to a thermal stimulus to provide complex matrix surface. Complex matrix surface configured as channels or structured are produced through various dual phase emulsions and lithographic techniques common to microelectronics and MEMS devices.

Referring now to where like numerals correspond to those used with respect to the prior figures cores passivated with ligand and having Diels Alder bonds to linkers are dispersed throughout a microemulsion polymer matrix . The microemulsion polymer matrix is composed of a first polymer phase having an identity such as that of polymer matrix in which linker is miscible and ligand is immiscible. The second polymer phase of polymer matrix is separated from the first polymer phase through the inherent immiscibility of the phases. The second polymer phase is shown in in shaded form. Based on the Flory Huggins binary interaction function being negative between the core passivated with ligand and terminated with linkers the cores are preferentially distributed within the first phase of polymer matrix as shown in . Upon applying a quantity of thermal energy the Diels Alder bond between linker and ligand is dissociated as shown in . The cores with passivating ligands are rendered immiscible in first polymer phase and preferentially bloom to the interface of polymer phases and and then migrate into second polymer phase in which linker is miscible. Upon segregation of cores passivated with ligands in the secondary phase polymer matrix is subjected to selective dissolution of first polymer phase leaving a highly porous matrix now composed only of secondary polymer phase containing cores therein as shown in . Techniques for selective removal of one polymer of a microemulsion are well known to the art and illustratively include differential dissolution rates in solvent and photolysis and catalytic depolymerization. While depicts a two phase polymer matrix it is appreciated that the polymer matrix is readily substituted with an interpenetrating network in which two polymers are separately polymerized yet occupy the same volume.

The present invention is also operative in the context of a polymer matrix patterned through photolithography. As shown in where like numerals correspond to those used with respect to the previous figures a polymer matrix containing cores passivated with ligand ligand in turn coupled to linker through a Diels Alder bond is distributed throughout a polymer matrix in which regions of the matrix have selectively been exposed to a light source inducing a chemical change in the regions of the matrix denoted at . depicts a negative photolithography process and it is appreciated that the present invention is equally well operative with photolithography positive matrix materials . Photolyzed regions of the polymer matrix are then selectively removed through a conventional technique such as solvent dissolution or evaporation as shown in . A quantity of thermal energy is applied to the remaining patterned portions of matrix denoted at in the form of heating for a certain amount of time to induce scission of the Diels Alder bond between ligand and linker as depicted in . With sufficient time the linker remains distributed throughout remaining polymer matrix regions while cores passivated with ligand migrate to surface of remaining polymer matrix regions as shown in . It is appreciated that when the cores exhibit quantum effects based on the spacing between remaining regions as well as the identity of cores that tunneling and other inter core optical magnetic and physical effects are noted. Optionally the regions between remaining polymer matrix portions are filled with a polymeric inorganic or semiconducting subsequently applied material through the use of conventional techniques such as spin coating in situ polymerization with respect to polymers physical vapor deposition or chemical vapor deposition with respect to inorganic or semiconductor materials. Following polishing to remove overburden of the subsequently applied material the remaining portions of the polymer matrix are optionally removed as shown in to create an array of structured subsequently applied material having a surface decorated with cores that mirror the dimensions of photolyzed regions . It is appreciated that a core is optionally used as a nucleation seed from which the material is grown through physical or chemical vapor deposition processes electrochemical deposition atomic layer deposition or the like.

The present invention is also operative through control of Flory Huggins binary interaction functions to transform an optically transparent material opaque through thermal stimulus. As shown in where like numerals correspond to those used with respect to the previous figures cores are passivated with ligands that in turn are joined to linker through a Diels Alder bond. Cores passivated with ligands and terminated in linker are distributed throughout polymer matrix with a spacing such that core core interactions provide only nominal scattering of photons traversing the polymer matrix as shown in . With introduction of a quantity of thermal energy the Diels Alder bond between ligand and linker is dissociated allowing linker to diffuse within the polymer matrix as shown in . As linker is miscible in polymer matrix based on a Flory Huggins binary interaction function that is negative cores passivated by ligand also migrate within polymer matrix FIG. B. Based on attractive interactions between ligands with other ligands such as hydrogen bonding van der Waal s attractions and the like cores approach to a core to core distance sufficiently close to scatter photons traversing the polymer matrix thereby rendering the polymer matrix opaque as depicted in . As the Diels Alder bond is thermodynamically reversible the inventive system depicted in is appreciated to be operative as a thermoresponsive window or optical element.

The present invention is further detailed with respect to an exemplary specific system that further highlights attributes of the present invention. These examples are considered to be non limiting and are not intended to limit the scope of the appended claims.

Schemes S1 through S3 illustrate the synthetic route utilized to ultimately form the DA linked PEG b PS copolymer ligand for nanoparticle functionalization. Commercially available methoxy hydroxy PEG M 550 g mol PDI

Preliminary experiments demonstrated the ability to tether polymer 1 and polymer 2 via Diels Alder reactions. Methoxy maleimido PEG is stirred at 60 C. in THF with furyl S thiobenzoyl PS for several days. After five days the sample is precipitated in CHOH and the isolated polymer is analyzed by H NMR. The appearance of methylene peaks at 3.60 ppm confirmed the presence of polymer 2 demonstrating the ability to tether polymer 1 and polymer 2 together via a Diels Alder reaction to yield the 1 DA 2 copolymer that is analogous to the polymer ligand needed for the compatibilization of the nanoparticles with the PEG matrix. To demonstrate the reversibility of this chemistry the isolated 1 DA 2 copolymer is dissolved in toluene and heated at 90 C. for 12 h. The reaction mixture is precipitated into CHOH and the resulting polymer is analyzed by H NMR. The absence of methylene peaks at 3.60 ppm implied the Diels Alder bond had been severed. Polymer 2 precipitated upon addition of CHOH while polymer 1 remained in solution. NMR peaks at 1 3 ppm and 6.8 7.4 ppm typical of PS are also observed.

Au nanoparticles are prepared according to a previously published method 44 then characterized by small angle X ray scattering SAXS and transmission electron microscopy TEM . The SAXS data is well fit using a log normal size distribution for a spherical particle shape. The particle size distribution mode is found to be 8.93 nm the median 9.82 nm and the mean 10.1 nm.

Next furyl S thiobenzoyl PS is treated with NaBHto prepare furyl mercapto PS polymer 3 which is utilized in a ligand exchange reaction to passivate Au nanoparticles to yield polymer 3 Au as shown in Scheme S3. Then furyl functionalized Au nanoparticles are stirred at 60 C. in THF with excess equivalents polymer 1 for several days to yield 1 DA 3 di block copolymer functionalized Au nanoparticles 1 DA 3 Au. Repeated cycles of centrifugation decanting and resuspension are used to remove excess polymer 1. The resulting 1 DA 3 Au is stored as a stock solution in THF. depicts a typical TEM micrograph of linker ligand passivated gold cores 1 DA 3 Au . The increased spacing between the nanoparticles indicates the presence of polymer

Furyl alcohol 5.00 mL 58.0 mmol triethylamine EtN 10.5 mL 75.4 mmol and CHCl 150 mL are added to a 250 mL round bottom flask and cooled to 0 C. Next 2 bromoprionyl bromide 7.30 mL 69.0 mmol is added dropwise slowly. The reaction mixture is stirred at RT for 12 h. HO 150 mL is added and the reaction is then extracted with CHCl 2 100 mL which is collected and dried over anhydrous MgSO. Solvent is removed via rotary evaporation to yield Compound 1 12.1 g 89 as a yellow liquid. H NMR ppm 7.42 1H s 6.42 1H d 6.38 1H d 5.13 2 H q 4.37 1H q 1.79 1H d C H NMR 169.9 148.7 143.5 111.7 110.7 59.3 39.6 21.6.

Compound 1 and a stir bar are loaded into a 100 mL schlenk flask which is vacuum backfilled three times with N. THF 20 mL is added and the reaction is stirred. In a 25 mL round bottom flask a stir bar is loaded and then vacuum backfilled three times with N. Phenyl magnesium chloride 12.8 mL 25.7 mmol and THF 10 mL are then added. The 25 mL round bottom flask is cooled to 78 C. and while stirring CS 1.50 mL 25.7 mmol is added. The reaction stirred for 15 min at 78 C. and then for 1 h at room temperature. The contents of the round bottom flask are then transferred to the 100 mL schlenk flask via cannula and the reaction stirred for 5 h at RT. The reaction mixture is partitioned after the addition of HO 75 mL . The aqueous layer is then extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL and the organic layers are combined and dried over anhydrous MgSO. Solvent is removed via rotary evaporation to yield polymer 2 6.31 g 96 as a red liquid. H NMR ppm 7.94 1H d 7.55 2H t 7.42 1H s 7.39 2H t 6.42 1H d 6.38 1H d 5.13 2H s 4.75 1H q 1.79 3H d C H NMR 225.5 170.9 149.0 144.5 143.5 132.8 128.9 127.0 111.7 110.7 59.3 48.7 17.4.

Compound 2 1.00 g 3.24 mmol AIBN 780 mg 4.80 mmol styrene 18.4 mL 160 mmol THF 40 mL and a stir bar are added to a 100 mL round bottom flask. The reaction mixture is purged with Nfor 30 min and then heated at 70 C. for 19 h. The reaction is cooled to RT and the polymer is isolated by precipitation into CHOH to isolate polymer 2 11.0 g 67 as a pink powder. GPC M 4 600 g mol PDI 1.14 .

Polymer 2 10.6 g 2.3 mmol and a stir bar are loaded into a 250 mL flat bottom flask. THF 70 mL EtOH 70 mL and NaBH 870 mg 23 mmol are added to the flask in that order. The reaction stirred for 20 h at RT. Solvent is removed via rotary evaporation. THF 10 mL is added and subsequent precipitation into CHOH yielded polymer 3 quantitative yield as a white powder.

Polymer 1 1.3 g 2.0 mmol polymer 2 0.75 g 0.19 mmol THF 7 mL and a stir bar are loaded into a 15 mL round bottom flask. The reaction is stirred at 60 C. for five days. The reaction is cooled to RT and upon precipitation into CHOH yielded 1 DA 2 copolymer 200 mg 23 as a white powder. To demonstrate reversibility 1 DA 3 copolymer 100 mg 0.022 mmol toluene 4 mL and a stir bar are loaded into a 10 mL round bottom flask. The reaction is stirred at 90 C. for 12 h. The reaction is cooled to RT and an analytic sample is isolated from precipitation into CHOH. See Figure S2 for H NMR spectra.

Polymer 3 4.6 g 1.0 mmol toluene 25 mL and a stir bar are loaded into a 100 mL round bottom flask and stirred at reflux. Next Au nanoparticles 81 mg 0.8 mmol of ligand suspended in toluene 10 mL are added and the reaction proceeded to stir at reflux for 2 h. The reaction is cooled to RT and the particles are isolated by a series of centrifugation decanting and resuspension 5 with THF EtOH 3 2 . Volatile materials are removed under vacuum to yield polymer 3 Au 1.3 g as a magenta powder.

 Mercapto methoxy PEG 500 mg 0.1 mmol toluene 8 mL and a stir bar are loaded into a 25 mL round bottom flask and stirred at reflux. Next Au nanoparticle cores 10 mg 0.01 mmol of ligand suspended in toluene 2 mL are added and the reaction proceeded to stir at reflux for 2 h. The reaction is cooled to RT and the particle cores are isolated by a series of centrifugation decanting and resuspension 5 with CHOH. Volatile materials are removed under vacuum to yield PEG ligand passivated Au cores 64 mg as a magenta powder.

 Mercapto methoxy poly styrene b PEG 1 g 0.025 mmol toluene 8 mL and a stir bar are loaded into a 25 mL round bottom flask and stirred at reflux. Next Au nanoparticle cores 10 mg 0.01 mmol of ligand suspended in toluene 2 mL are added and the reaction proceeded to stir at reflux for 2 h. The reaction is cooled to RT and the particles are isolated by a series of centrifugation decanting and resuspension 5 with THF EtOH 3 2 . Volatile materials are removed under vacuum to yield PEG b PS Au 750 mg as a magenta powder.

Polymer 1 630 mg 1.0 mmol polymer 3 Au 1.3 g THF 40 mL and a stir bar are loaded into a 100 mL round bottom flask and stirred at 60 C. for five days. The reaction is cooled to RT and the particles are isolated by a series of centrifugation decanting and resuspension 5 with tetrahydrofuran THF methanol MeOH 1 3 . Volatile materials are removed under vacuum to yield 1 DA 3 Au 0.98 g as a magenta powder. The powder dissolved in 3 wt THF and stored as a stock solution.

Polymer films are then prepared by dissolving a PEG matrix M 2 000 g mol or 5 000 g mol polydispersity index PDI 

As RBS data from the same samples provides conclusive evidence of the migration of the Au particle cores to the matrix surface. RBS is a technique that indirectly measures the composition of a surface to a depth of approximately 2 m. A beam of ions typically He is targeted towards a surface. As the ions collide with the different atomic nuclei present in the film some ions are absorbed while others backscatter. The energy of the backscattered ions is dependent upon the both the depth and mass of the atomic nuclei. For example if elements of high atomic mass such as Au are present as the surface of a film the backscattered energy will be very large as the atomic mass of the element from which the backscattered ions decreases the backscattered energy is reduced. In addition as the nuclei are placed deeper within the film relative to the surface the measured backscattered energy will decrease In the data presented here channels 450 to 200 260 to 100 150 to 0 and 100 to 0 represent the distribution of Au Si O and C atoms respectively from the surface of the film to approximately two microns in depth. Due to overlapping signals RBS is most effective at detecting elements of large atomic mass at the surface of a film.

SAXS analysis of the samples also indicates a change in the morphology of the films with thermal stimulus. SAXS data for gold particle cores dispersed in 2 000 g mol PEG and gold particles dispersed in 5 000 g mol PEG are presented in . The SAXS data collected for gold nanoparticle cores modified with oleylamine and dispersed in toluene are also presented for comparison. Annealing either sample at 60 C. for 24 h results in a morphology in which the particles are not only not scattering independently but may be giving rise to core core interactive Bragg like diffraction peaks. In particular the 2 000 g mol matrix material shows two clear peaks one at q 0.040 and one at q 0.1 . The relationship between the features is not readily apparent but fitting form factor scattering model data to the experimental data clearly shows the higher angle reflection is not a higher order reflection from the Au particle form factor. The 5 000 g mol matrix material does not show a second order reflection but the primary peak is virtually identical to that for the 2 000 g mol matrix sample. SAXS analysis after annealing the films for 24 h at 90 C. shows a clear change in bulk morphology to a primary peak shape from dispersed scattering centers with minor interparticle scattering effects.

5 wt of mercapto furyl PS polymer 3 is dispersed within a 5 000 g mol PEG matrix. Contact angle measurements on the corresponding films after annealing at 60 C. and 90 C. yield results of 58 2 indicating that for both annealing temperatures the PS phase separates to the air interface to reduce surface energy resulting in a larger contact angle measurement than that of pure PEG.

Au nanoparticle cores are functionalized with two different mercapto terminated polymers mercapto methoxy PEG M 5 000 g mol PDI

In RBS experiments show no evidence of migration of nanoparticle Au cores to the surface indicating that the PS is needed to drive the Au particles to the surface. Similarly in no migration of Au core to the surface after annealing at 60 C. and 90 C. is seen indicating that the thermally reversible DA bond is required to expose the PS to the PEG matrix. Observation of a peak corresponding to sulfur nuclei near channel 250 is due to free mercapto methoxy PS b PEG block copolymer.

These control experiments indicate three concepts. First PS phase separates to the air interface when dispersed within a PEG matrix to reduce surface energy. Modifying PEG with polymer 3 resulted in a rapid change in surface energy as the PS segregated to the sample surfaces. Second PS is needed to induce migration of the Au particle cores. As the RBS data show without PS the gold particle cores do not accumulate at the surface after annealing. Third the DA bond between the blocks is necessary to expose the PS Au core to the PEG matrix. Modifying gold particles with the mercapto methoxy PS b PEG block copolymer also does not result in any change in surface morphology with annealing.

By changing the molecular weight of the PEG matrix the speed at which the particles migrate to the surface is altered. Annealing the 2 000 g mol PEG films containing 1 DA 3 Au additive for 24 h resulted in layer of Au that is approximately 35 nm thick whereas annealing 5 000 g mol PEG films containing 1 DA 3 at the same loading for 24 h Au additive resulted in a layer of Au approximately 15 nm thick. The lower molecular weight matrix provides fewer chain entanglements and lower bulk viscosity thus allowing greater mobility of the functionalized nanoparticle core through the matrix. To further demonstrate this point an annealing time study is conducted to determine the rate at which functionalized particles migrated through the PEG matrix.

Increasing the anneal time results in an increase in the contact angle and thus a decrease in surface energy. RBS analysis of the 5 000 g mol PEG film containing 8 wt 1 DA 3 Au additive at various times also shows the increased concentration of Au at the surface with longer annealing time .

Atomic force microscopy AFM is employed to explore the surface morphology. displays typical 3 dimensional AFM images of films comprised 2 000 g mol PEG containing 4 wt of 1 DA 3 Au additive that are annealed at 90 C. for 6 h and 72 h. Analysis of the film annealed for 6 h yielded a surface roughness of 367 nm with a maximum height of 2.14 m whereas the film annealed for 72 h had a surface roughness of 137 nm with a maximum height of 847 nm. Typically an increase in surface roughness increases the surface energy of the film and raises the corresponding contact angle measurement however these films exhibited the same contact angle regardless of the surface roughness. The main difference between these films is the rate at which a HO droplet is absorbed into the film. Longer anneal times increase the concentration of PS functionalized Au nanoparticle core at the surface of the film as supported by RBS analysis and result in a more continuous film of PS which decreases the surface roughness. The continuous PS surface impedes the penetration of HO into the underlying PEG matrix and retards the surface rearrangement process.

Polymer films are then prepared by dissolving a PS b PMMA block copolymer in CHCland adding a stock solution of 1 DA 3 Au to yield various wt loading. Slow evaporation of solvent reduced drying defects and resulted in bulk polymer films with thicknesses ranging from 175 300 m. Additionally these conditions allowed for phase separation to occur. Samples are subsequently stained with OsOresulting in dark regions representing the PS domains and light regions representing the PMMA domains. The films are annealed at 120 C. for 24 h and subsequently characterized by cross sectional TEM and SAXS to explore the migration of the functionalized Au particles within the PS b PMMA block copolymer matrix.

Conversely after thermal treatment the Au nanoparticle cores migrate to the PS domains because of the PS exterior.

Annealing the films at 120 C. for 24 h cleaves the PEG shell from the nanoparticle core exposing a PS exterior which phase separates to reduce interfacial energy. Here significant and efficient particle migration occurs as the ratio of particles located in the correct phase to the incorrect phase is 46 to 10 82 . Additionally a swelling of the PS domains is observed.

Analysis of the PS b PMMA block copolymer without any additive after room temperature film formation indicates a single Bragg peak diffraction at q 0.0201 with a domain size of 31.2 nm. Annealing the block copolymer at 120 C. for 24 h results in a sharpening of that Bragg peak to a domain size of 29.4 nm and the appearance of a second Bragg reflection at q 0.0608 indicating increased long range order typical of an annealed block copolymer sample. For a lamellar morphology Bragg reflections occur at integer multiples of the primary scattering vector i.e. q 2q 3q etc. and that alternating lamellae of equal thicknesses result in a systematic absence of the even Bragg reflections. Thus the SAXS data in confirm the lamellar morphology of the PS b PMMA block copolymer both neat and after the addition of the Au nanoparticle cores. Analysis of the PS b PMMA block copolymer containing the DA functionalized Au nanoparticle cores generated from room temperature film formation displays a Bragg peak corresponding to a domain size of 31.3 nm which is in good agreement with the block copolymer without the additive after room temperature film formation. Scattering from the individual Au nanoparticle cores is also evident. Annealing the same sample at 120 C. for 24 h displays a significant shift to a domain size of 37.6 nm which is in agreement with the TEM micrographs.

A third block PS b PMMA block copolymer with a domain size of approximately 110 nm was utilized as a matrix. depicts cross sectional TEM micrographs of the PS b PMMA block copolymer M170k b 168k PDI

Increasing the molecular weight of the block copolymer improves the dispersability of the passivated nanoparticle cores within the polymer domains.

Au nanoparticle cores are passivated with methoxy mercapto PEG polymers to direct alignment within the PMMA domains regardless of the processing conditions. depicts cross section TEM micrographs of the PS b PMMA block copolymer M38k b 37k PDI

Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

