---

title: Title-enabled networking
abstract: Methods and apparatus are provided for processing packets in a network. A received packet includes title materials which include one or more of a title object, a component of the title object, or a reference to the title object. The title object is a digital bearer instrument representing at least one right relating to processing of the packet in the network which may be redeemed by presentation of the title object to a title-enabled device or process operating in the network. Upon validation of the title object, the packet is processed in the network in accordance with the at least one right represented by the title object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621372&OS=09621372&RS=09621372
owner: OnCircle, Inc.
number: 09621372
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070430
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 19 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 746 032 filed Apr. 29 2006 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document may contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply to this document Copyright 2007 Navio Systems Inc.

The present invention provides systems methods and software for providing and managing rights to use networks and network services using digital bearer instruments that express at least one right related to providing and or managing a network or network service. The invention has applications in the fields of computer science networking and electronic business methods.

A title is a digital bearer instrument that expresses at least one right. Title materials include titles portions of titles for example such as a specific right definition a reference to a specific title or right and independently validatable portions of titles. A stub is one example of an independently validatable portion of a title. Title materials may also include specific instances of digital bearer instruments that may not include a specific right. Title materials are presented to title enabled processes computers and devices which use the presented title materials to operate on and or facilitate redemption of rights expressed by a title. Titles employed by specific embodiments of the present invention are related to the title technologies provided by Navio Systems Inc. of Cupertino Calif.

As described in U.S. Patent Publication US 2006 0036548 A1 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes titles can be validated by using a title resolver and or a state server both of which are components of a title management system. is a flow chart depicting an example of such a title validation process. The title is submitted by a client to a title resolver service for authentication . The title resolver service examines the title s digital signature . If the digital signature is incorrect the title resolver service rejects the title and the title validation process terminates with an invalid title result. If the digital signature is correct the title resolver service forwards the title to the state server process for further validation of the state value in the title s stub. The state server process uses the state value or other indicia that are part of the title computes a value from these item s and compares it against a value stored in a database . If the two values match the title is validated by the state server . A title valid response is returned to the title resolver service which in turn returns a title valid response the client . If the state server cannot validate the title it returns a title invalid response and the validation process terminates. The above example is one method of validating titles additional methods of validating title materials include digital signatures comparison of transaction indicia to transaction databases and other methods well known to those skilled in the art.

According to specific embodiments described in U.S. Patent Publication US 2006 0036548 A1 referenced above when a title is used for example during a redeem action the title is presented to state server for authentication by a resolver. The state server performs the authentication process and verifies the security indicia contained within the title to that of the current state maintained in the state collection. The security indicium for a title is contained in the titles authenticator stub.

The state server may also perform endorsement and authentication as supported by the title transaction ecosystem. A variety of techniques and algorithms can be supported by the title technology and the technique and algorithm employed on a particular title can be subsequently conveyed to the state server for authentication. In one class of embodiments a chained hash mechanism is used for title authentication. According to a particular embodiment the chained hash may be generated by repeatedly hashing an initial value v which may include title information combined with a random number or other appropriate data using a cryptographically strong hash function H such as MD5 or SHA 1. The first iteration of the chained hash algorithm gives h0 H v . The second iteration gives h1 H h0 . The nth iteration gives hn H hn 1 where n represents the desired length of the hash chain. This hash chain of length n may represent any value within the system from the maximum number of redemptions allowed by a title to the maximum number of users connected to a system or any other value required by the system. In another embodiment v may be composed of a random value and a hash of the title to later be used for title integrity verification.

In another embodiment the state server component may generate hn and securely store n and the value v that was used as the initial hash value for h0. The value hn may then be set in the authenticator stub for the title along with the name of the hash algorithm used to create hn. In one instance the client may then later present the title upon redemption where the state server may extract the value hn from the authenticator stub along with the hash algorithm name specified by that stub. The state server may then look up its stored values v and n and compute hi Hi hi 1 where h0 H0 v and i 1 2 3 . . . n. The value hn would be checked for equality with hi and if equal the title would be authenticated. The server may then store n 1 in place of n generate a new authenticator stub containing hn 1 and the name of the algorithm used and return that stub back to the client where the title may be authenticated again using the above process as long as n 0.

In yet another embodiment the state server generates the hash as defined above and set the values hn and ye along with the name of the hash algorithm used in the authenticator stub where ye is the encrypted value v. The state server would only need to store n in this embodiment. Upon redemption the client would present the title with the authenticator stub containing ye hn and the name of the hash algorithm to use. The state server component may then decrypt ye to get vd and compute hi Hi hi 1 where h0 H0 vd and i 1 2 3 . . . n. The state server component would then verify hi hn and if true the title would be authenticated. The server may then store n 1 in place of n generate a new authenticator stub containing hn 1 ye and the name of the hash algorithm used and return that stub back to the client where the title may be authenticated again using the above process as long as n 0.

In yet another embodiment the client is responsible for generating the hash chain. In one instance the client generates the value v using the techniques described above or another appropriate method. The client then computes the hash chain hi Hi hi 1 where h0 H0 v and i 1 2 3 . . . n. The resulting hash chain h0 h1 h2 . . . hn. The client sends its credentials h0 and the name of the hash algorithm used to the state server component. The state server component verifies the client s credentials and stores h0 in its secure data store. Upon title redemption the client sends the title with h1 and the name of the hash algorithm embedded in the authenticator stub to the state server component for verification. The state server component retrieves h0 from its secure data store and hashes h0 using the algorithm indicated to produce h1 . The title is authenticated if and only if h1 h1 . The state server component then replaces h0 with h1 in its secure data store. The client can no longer use h1. Note that in this embodiment the client will always supply hi and the state server component will always store hi 1. The ith redemption consists of the value hi supplied by the client which the state server component can verify using hi 1. Each such redemption requires no calculations from the client and only a single hash operation by the state server component.

In another embodiment when a chain of hashes expires such as n 0 the state server can automatically perform a re endorsement of the title and create a new chain. The re endorsement can occur selectively and as permitted on the particular title.

In another embodiment a random value technique is applied to authenticate a title. A random value is generated by the state server and placed in the authenticator stub. The state server also maintains a record of the random value in its state collection. The random value would be changed by the state server every time the title is authenticated and only the title object with the correct random value would be valid.

A network is two or more computers or other devices connected together using a communication system for the purpose of communicating and sharing resources. A network session or sometimes simply a session includes a set of discrete network packets that effect a particular communication between one or more computers or devices.

Networks typically comprise dedicated hardware and software systems commonly called network devices which function in conjunction with communication links to operably connect two or more computers or network devices. Switches routers cable modems wireless access points and firewalls are all non limiting examples of network devices. One particular type of network device is a wireless access point such as produced commercially by Netgear of Santa Clara Calif. Linksys of Irvine Calif. and Skypilot Networks of Santa Clara Calif. Wireless access points permit over the air wireless OSI level 1 and 2 communication links between computers and computer networks in accordance with one or more of the 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11i and other wireless protocols. Each wireless access point can be configured to respond to and be accessed using at least one public name called a service set identifier SSID .

Network communications between computers network devices and other devices attached to a network are performed using one or more network protocols. The well known Open System Interconnection OSI seven layer networking model defines several types of network communication. These layers are generally considered a link layer group OSI layer 1 2 protocol layer group OSI layers 3 5 and application layer group OSI layers 6 7 . Network protocols may be categorized by the OSI layers in which they are supported such as link layer protocols like 802.11 as described above protocol layer group protocols such as TCP IP UDP IPv4 IPv6 MPLS DHCP BOOTP DNS and application layer group protocols such as SMTP POP IMAP HTTP SOAP and SMS. The computer implemented software or firmware that implements some or all of a network protocol is commonly called a protocol stack.

Network devices typically facilitate movement of discrete units of information called packets over communication links between network devices and computers to effect communication and resource sharing. Sometimes these networks are called packet switched networks. Network devices inspect packets and process them according to information found in the packet s contents. Typically this information is located in the packet header although it could be located anywhere within a packet or sequence of packets.

A user computer or device can be granted access to some networks computers devices or shared resources and not to others based on the level of service they have contracted for company or government clearances who they work for and a variety of other factors. Access to one or more shared resources and even to the network itself is provided on the basis of authentication and authorizations of a user computer or device. Authentication is the mechanism for proving an identity of the user computer or device. Authentication of users is often provided using a user id and password a network address or other information possessed by a user or known to the user. Often these authentication methods rely on the user entering his authentication information into a computer which is then used to authenticate the user.

Authentication of computers and network devices is generally performed using automated mechanisms such as public key infrastructure PKI . Additional sets of protocols are used to support authentication at a protocol group layer using variants of the EAP protocol or an application group layer such as RADIUS and Kerberos. Once identified authorization materials associated with the user computer or device can be obtained and used to make access and provisioning decisions.

Authorization is a specification of what the user computer or device is allowed to do and what resources the user computer or device is allowed to share and the subsequent enforcement of this specification to restrict or provide the resources authorized for a particular user computer or device. Authorizations may extend not only to the access to and use of one or more shared resources but may include the manner in which one or more services or resources are provided and the percentage of network resources such as bandwidth that can be used by a particular user computer or device. A substantial infrastructure is required to provide for the authentication of users computers and devices and to provide for the authorization and provisioning of the user computer or device in accordance with an authorization specification.

One challenge surrounding the use of network devices and systems is that they have differing authentication authorization and even expressions of rights. For example a router from one network equipment provider may define user access and network traffic rights in a different way than a router from another provider which in turn may define user access and networks rights differently than a DSL modem.

Additional challenges are provided when a plurality of network devices and servers require multiple authentications from a single user. As each of these authentications and authorizations typically require the user to enter information at a computer a user is sometimes required to authenticate several times to gain access to a network resource. Additionally there is generally not a mechanism by which a user can provide authentication or authorization materials to parts of the network between the user and an end network resource.

IPv6 is a network layer protocol for packet switched networking. It is intended as the successor of IPv4 which is the current version of the Internet Protocol in general use. The changes between IPv6 and IPv4 are relatively conservative and most transport and application layer protocols need little or no change to work over IPv6.

The IPv6 proposed standard RFC2460 Deering 1998 defines a basic header and numerous extension headers including an authentication header a hop by hop options header a routing header or a destination options header that may be inserted into an IPv6 packet. depicts an example of an IPv6 packet where the IPv6 basic header is followed by any number of extension headers . . . . depicts the detailed contents of an extension header.

IPv6 further defines destination options headers as implementation specific headers. These headers provide space in the protocol frame into which applications or protocol stacks may insert implementation specific materials which are then used by applications present on routers switches servers and other network devices to pass information within the protocol framework.

In computer networking and telecommunications MPLS is a network protocol that emulates some properties of a circuit switched network over a packet switched network. MPLS was designed to provide a unified data carrying service for both circuit based clients and packet switching network devices and network clients. It can be used to carry many different kinds of traffic including IP packets as well as native ATM SONET and Ethernet frames. The standards for MultiProtocol Label Switching MPLS are set forth in RFC3031 E. Rosen et. al. January 2001.

An IP packet comprises three elements the first element is a header which marks the beginning of the packet the second element is the payload which contains the information to be carried in the packet and the third element is a trailer which marks the end of the packet. Other protocols such as XNS have a similar structure. MPLS works by prepending protocol packets with an additional MPLS header containing one or more labels. This list of labels in a MPLS header is commonly called a label stack. Prepending an existing protocol packet with a MPLS header transforms the existing packet into a MPLS payload. The standards for MPLS Label Stack Encoding are set forth in RFC 3032 E. Rosen et. al. January 2001.

In MPLS networking a Label Switched Path LSP is a path through an MPLS network. An LSP is sometimes referred to as an MPLS tunnel because the forwarding of packets through an LSP is opaque to higher network layers. The LSP is set up based on criteria in the forwarding equivalence class FEC which is a group of IP packets that are forwarded in the same manner over the same network path and with the same forwarding treatment. FEC is typically determined by destination IP address quality of service class allocated bandwidth and other implementation dependent factors.

The entrance and exit points of an LSP are both known as Label Edge Routers LERs sometimes called ingress and egress routers or more generically border routers. When an unlabeled packet enters the LSP path through the ingress router the router first determines the FEC the packet should be in appends a MPLS header to the packet and then inserts one or more labels in the packet s newly created MPLS header. It then forwards the packet along to the next router in the path. Other routers along the path are known as Label Switching Routers LSRs or more generically as transit routers.

When a labeled packet is received by a transit router the topmost label is examined. Based on the contents of the label a swap swap to a new label push add another label to the stack or pop remove the top label from the stack operation can be performed on the packet s label stack. Routers can have pre built lookup tables that tell them which kind of operation to do based on the topmost label of the incoming packet. This enables the routers to process the packet very quickly.

During these operations the contents of the packet below the MPLS label stack are not examined. The forwarding of the packet is done based on the contents of the labels which allows protocol independent packet forwarding that does not need to look at a protocol dependent routing table and avoids the computationally expensive IP longest prefix match at each hop along the path. At the egress router when the last label has been popped only the payload in the MPLS packet remains. This payload of the packet can be an IP packet or any of a number of other kinds of information.

An aspect of MPLS routing is that routing must often be performed on the basis of an attribute of a user s device such as the source IP address the port that their network packets enter the ingress router on or other networking based attribute. There is no simple way to configure a user so that their traffic receives a specific quality of service or allocated bandwidth without considering aspects of the device that the user is using.

In one example network traffic from a first user is routed to a first border router of network where it is inspected by the border router. The border router identifies the network address of the destination as belonging to network and has a routing policy that indicates that traffic should be routed in accordance with a specific routing policy that routes all traffic between the ingress and egress routers via edge routers excluding the traffic from the core routers of the network . In this example the routing policy is defined using a MPLS label corresponding to the EDGE policy that is configured as a LSP around the edge of network to the egress router that is operably connected to network . The route of packets following the EDGE routing policy are depicted in by traffic route as indicated on the drawing by the line with dots and dashes. The first border router functioning as an ingress router identifies the FEC corresponding to the traffic and adds a MPLS header and label corresponding to the EDGE routing policy to the network traffic. The router then routes the network traffic in accordance with its MPLS label e.g. around the edge of the network to router then on to border router . Border router functions as an egress router for network and as an ingress router for network and can operate in a variety of configurations. The net result of these configurations is typically that the network traffic is relabeled with a MPLS label corresponding to the CORE policy when it enters network . The network traffic is then routed to its egress border router for example from to to and to its destination . The route packets following the CORE routing policy are depicted in by traffic route indicated with dashes .

Different routing policies may be applied based upon different source and destination addresses network traffic type e.g. VoIP traffic may have a higher priority than file transfer traffic allocated bandwidth desired quality of service or other aspects of the network traffic. Unfortunately there is no way for a user to connect in on various networks and receive an appropriate service level without a wide reaching service infrastructure that encompasses all of the routers and requires specific authorization and sign ons.

Provisioning is the process by which a device is configured to operate on a network. In simplest form a provisioning process is performed when a device is to be connected with a network. Provisioning may be manual where a user or administrator forms the association between a device and a network and optionally assigns one or more network configuration parameters such as network addresses to specific devices. Optionally provisioning may be automatically performed. Numerous provisioning protocols have been introduced one common protocol is called the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol.

Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP is a network protocol for automatically provisioning devices on a network. DHCP is a client server protocol between a client network device e.g. the device that requires provisioning and a server network device which provides the provisioning information. DHCP is an extension to a prior generation provisioning protocol called BOOTP.

DHCP is generally used to assign network addresses and other network configuration parameters to devices that are connected to the network in a process called dynamic addressing. By using dynamic addressing a device can have a different IP address and other network parameters each time it connects to the network. Many ISPs use dynamic IP addressing for dial up users. In some systems the device s IP address can even change while it is still connected. DHCP also supports a mix of static and dynamic IP addresses. The standards for Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP are set forth in RFC2131 R. Droms March 1997. BOOTP is interoperable with DHCP and is primarily described in RFC1534 and RFC1542.

Dynamic addressing simplifies network administration because the software keeps track of IP addresses rather than requiring an administrator to manage the task. This means that new devices can be added to a network without having to manually assign a unique IP address to each device. Dynamic addressing also allows network addresses to be assigned on an as needed basis which is increasingly important due to the finite number of IP addresses and the ever increasing number of devices being used on networks including computers cellular phones handheld devices etc. .

In a first step sometimes called the discovery phase the client broadcasts a DHCPDISCOVER message on its local network to find available DHCP servers. In some embodiments a client may include options in its DHCPDISCOVER message. DHCP servers may use information in the DHCPDISCOVER message including options information in determining whether to respond to a DHCPDISCOVER message.

In second step known as the offer phase the DHCP server responds to a client broadcast by reserving an IP address for the client and sending a DHCPOFFER message back across the network to the client. The DHCP server typically determines the IP address configuration based on its configuration database. In some embodiments the determination is made based upon the client s hardware address e.g. MAC as specified in the CHADDR field . The DHCP server specifies the reserved offered IP address in the YIADDR field and may provide other network configuration parameters options fields. The offered IP address and other network configuration materials are said to be leased to the network client device.

In a third step known as the request phase the client receives the offer and requests the address that the server specified using a DHCPREQUEST message. If the client has received offers from multiple servers it specifies the DHCP server from which it has accepted the offer and specifically rejects offers from all other servers. DHCPREQUEST also can be used to request the client s last known IP address from a specific server. If the client is still in a network where the former IP address is valid the server might grant the request. DHCPREQUEST also can be used to request an extension in the lease of an existing IP address.

In the fourth and final step known as the response phase the DHCP server receives the DHCPREQUEST message from the network client and returns a DHCPACK acknowledgment packet to the client. This packet includes information such as the lease duration for the IP address and any other network configuration information that the client might have requested. The client configures its network interface with the supplied information. At this point the network configuration process is complete.

DHCP is implicitly limited in that it provides fixed network parameters but is unable to request provisioning in accordance with rights or entitlements for other network specific attributes such a quality of service or specific minimum or maximum bandwidth.

Today each individual differentiation mechanisms requires the user to have separately pre programmed their personal devices. This is costly from a provisioning and support standpoint. Additionally the network provider must provide specialty provisioning at nodes and points of presence of wide area and public networks in order to support a plurality of types of differentiated service. Again this is costly from a provisioning and deployment standpoint. Depending upon the equipment used in constructing the network there are various limitations in the number of types of specialty provisioning that are supported for each point of presence. These costs and limitations limit the number and types of traffic that may connect to a point of presence and be served by a wide area or public access network.

An example of a typical public wireless network is shown in such a public network might be found within airports malls coffee shops and other locations. Alternatively such a public network might be a simplified network diagram of a citywide wireless network of the type being installed in major metropolitan areas around the USA. Such a typical public wireless network might include a plurality of wireless access points using such technologies as 802.11a 802.11b g mesh networking technologies and other wireless networking mechanisms known to those skilled in the art. Collectively these are the points of presence for the wireless network. Each of these points of presence is connected using traditional networking technologies to one or more wireless gateways routers or switches. The wireless gateway is used to route DHCP and subsequent authentication traffic to one or more DHCP servers and RADIUS servers operable on the public wireless network. In some embodiments the DHCP server and RADIUS server chosen may be one of a network connected to an example of a public wireless network. The DHCP server may provide different network configuration parameters e.g. network and gateway addresses to a device connecting to the wireless network based upon for example the SSID of a wireless access point that the device is connected to. Setting up each of these SSIDs and managing the DHCP services based on the SSID is a complex and time consuming task and is further complicated by authentication requirements once the connection is established. The use of static SSIDs requires the use of real time authentication mechanisms as a device that is no longer eligible to access the network may retain the SSID configuration on their wireless device after their privileges have lapsed.

In some implementations separate authentication mechanisms must be provided by a network provider to require that users of devices connected to a network are actually authorized to use the network. Failure to separately authenticate to the network may cause a device or user of a device to not receive contracted levels of service from the network if service is provided at all.

Network traffic to and from the wireless access points and the Internet and private or public networks attached to an example of a public wireless network . In some network implementations the network traffic is routed using MPLS or a related routing technology. Any required differentiated service that is performed or managed can also be provided using MPLS or a related routing technology as described above.

One additional aspect of conventional wireless networks is that a user must often be able to operate on one or more of these networks because they roam from network to network. This increases the complexity of the network requires a plurality of RADIUS and other authorization authentication servers and complicates the user s portable device configurations. Each configuration of the user s portable device also may interfere with one or more other configurations of the portable device.

According to various embodiments of the invention methods and apparatus are provided for processing packets in a network. A received packet includes title materials which include one or more of a title object a component of the title object or a reference to the title object. The title object is a digital bearer instrument representing at least one right relating to processing of the packet in the network which may be redeemed by presentation of the title object to a title enabled device or process operating in the network. Upon validation of the title object the packet is processed in the network in accordance with the at least one right represented by the title object.

According to specific embodiments of the invention processing the packet includes one or more of dynamically provisioning an aspect of the network or mapping the packet onto a previously provisioned aspect of the network. According to more specific embodiments the aspect of the network may be one or more of an end user device a server a modem a router a switch a network appliance a point of presence device a wireless access point a gateway a firewall a process or a network service.

According to specific embodiments the at least one right represented by the title object relates to one or more of network access quality of service level of service packet traffic protection traffic class or traffic priority.

According to specific embodiments processing the packet comprises manipulation of the packet in accordance with one or more of a plurality of protocols including one or more of MPLS DHCP BOOTP IPv4 IPv6 TCP IP UDP IP DNS GSM CDSA iDEN 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11i 802.11n WiMax uPNP telnet FTP SMTP POP IMAP HTTP SOAP XML RPC and SMS.

These and other aspects and advantages will become apparent when the Description below is read in conjunction with the accompanying Drawings.

Reference will now be made in detail to specific embodiments of the invention including the best modes contemplated by the inventors for carrying out the invention. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention is described in conjunction with these specific embodiments it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the invention to the described embodiments. On the contrary it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. In the following description specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The present invention may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In addition well known features may not have been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the invention.

Each title also referred to herein as a title object is a digital bearer instrument that is independently authenticatable and describes or represents at least one right. A title component is one or more aspects of a title ranging from part of a title up to and including the whole title that is used by at least an aspect of a network to effect configuration provisioning routing service provision or some other aspect of network functionality. A title component may comprise the specification of a specific right an independent portion of a title such as a stub any uniquely identifiable and verifiable portion of a title and or a reference to a specific title or right. Titles and title components are more generically referred to herein as title materials. 

The entitlement or right s of a device or a user to perform specific actions in conjunction with a network device can be based in part upon the title materials presented by the device or user. A device s or user s presentation of title materials can be a manual action. Alternatively the action can be an automated one performed at least in part by software on the user s local computer or portable device. Thus a user can provide a title to a device that describes at least one aspect of their rights and privileges on a specific network device on a class or set of network devices of which the specific network device is a member on a specific network or upon a class or set of networks.

In some embodiments it is desirable for aspects of a network to be controlled not by static routing and inflexible configurations but by aspects of a device user or an affiliation or right granted to a device or user. The use of titles is advantageous in these circumstances in that they provide an independent mechanism for describing rights and capabilities associated with those rights. In some embodiments titles can express a plurality of rights and may further express sets of rights. One particular advantage of using titles to express rights to use network resources is that they can flexibly express these rights to use one or more network services or systems using either common or device specific ways and may even express a specific right in a variety of ways that can be collectively understood by a plurality of network devices. One or more rights in a title may embody specifications or configuration information effective to control a particular aspect of a network. These specifications and configuration information can be extracted from a title structure and used by an aspect of a network.

Another particular advantage of using title materials to support network provisioning is that titles as digital bearer instruments may be presented by a device on behalf of a device or user without requiring the device or user s intervention. The title can be independently authenticated by one or more aspects of the network and the desired services automatically provided. It is often advantageous for devices and users to not be required to authenticate each time they attempt to use a different aspect of one or more networks. The use of title materials in controlling network capabilities may be transparent to the user and therefore has the potential to limit the number of personal authentication and related interactions a user must have with a network.

In a particular embodiment at least one aspect of the use of a network and or specific network resources can be controlled in whole or in part based upon title materials that can be presented by either a person or a machine seeking to use the network. The term user as used herein encompasses both types of use either by a machine or by a person. In this example a user either an actual person a device on behalf of a person or a device itself presents title materials that describe that user s rights of access level of service s and possibly other network attribute s that the user is entitled to use.

Network devices including such devices as modems for example telephone DSL or cable routers and switches and the like can make routing and network traffic management decisions on the basis of presented title materials. In some embodiments network configurations are produced that correspond to one or more aspects of a right or entitlement and a network device may make its routing and network traffic management decision on the basis of a network configuration that represents an aspect of a right expressed by title materials. In a specific embodiment a router may use title materials to determine the quality of service or bandwidth a particular user is entitled to receive. A MPLS tag associated with specific routing information stored in a group of routers is an example of a network configuration information that represents an aspect of a quality of service or network bandwidth right. Specifically a title based right may include one or more MPLS tags that may be used to specify an aspect of a title based right to use a network. Similarly a title based right to use an aspect of a network may reference an external system directory or database that further provides these materials usable by the network to provide the right. In such embodiments resolving the right would involve looking up the network information in the external system directory or database to obtain the specifications for configuring at least one aspect of the network to provide network service.

In another example title materials can provide a user with the ability to connect to the Internet at any of the network s point of presence locations e.g. wireless access points . In this use the title materials can replace traditional user password pairs for mobile users and eliminate the infrastructure requirements of a plurality of SSIDs and further permit the reduction in the number of authentication servers required to support a network. In addition when used in conjunction with a premise based device such as a DSL or cable modem title materials can be used to define the service levels to be provided e.g. data transfer rate and to enable the provision of differentiated service based upon rights presented by a user of the network device instead of the location of the network device or even upon the originator of specific network packet traffic. Thus a network provider such as Comcast Verizon or other provider can provide quality of service and differential bandwidth specific services to users that connect from any point of presence on their network upon presentation of that user s title materials. The technologies are further advantageous to the network providers in that they no longer have to provision the premise devices for network speed limitations differing SSIDs or network address ranges or to build elaborate policies and configurations to map specific address ranges or SSIDs to specific classes of service. All of these improvements reduce the deployment and maintenance costs for deploying networks. This same technology allows a user to acquire rights to specific network services and for those services to be ubiquitously provided even across network providers.

Network services also may be title aware and provide differentiated service upon the basis of one or more title materials presented to the service. One example is a title aware DHCP service which is explored in greater detail below. Other network services including provisioning and authorization services such as various variants of EAP can also be made title aware and be used to provide similar benefits as the described DHCP example embodiment.

Title materials also can be embedded in network protocols. In some embodiments the network protocols may be specially crafted to embed title materials. These protocols are effective to transport title materials from a first location on a network to a second location on a network. In other embodiments network protocols such as TCP IP DHCP and EAP that are not originally designed for use with title materials may have title materials embedded within them.

Alternatively protocol stacks present on network devices and computers operating on a network may be title aware. Protocol stacks can seamlessly insert remove and use title materials in networking protocols on an as needed basis to effect the use of rights expressed in at least one title materials.

Collectively title enabled network devices network services and protocol stacks may be combined to produce one or more title enabled networks. Title enabled networks generally include at least one title resolver or state server. In some embodiments these components are provided as stand alone services or servers. In other embodiments they may be configured as part of one or more network devices. In yet other embodiments a title resolver or state server may be provided externally to a title enabled network.

In some embodiments the presentation of invalid or expired title materials will result in the user s being denied access to a network. In alternative embodiments the presentation of invalid or expired title materials will permit the user to access the network but may limit at least one aspect of the network that the user is permitted access to. In a particular embodiment the limited network access that a user is provided with may only provide sufficient network services to update their title materials with valid unexpired title materials.

In other aspects of the present invention access to or use of at least one aspect of a network may be enabled by title materials. These title materials may be configured for a short life e.g. they become invalid after a specific number of uses or after a specific period of time has passed. Title materials may be updated either before or after they expire to provide additional life. The updating may occur by replacing the title materials with new ones updating a title stub or by adjusting the expiration information in a title resolver or state server. A user may obtain new title materials using a title update protocol or by invoking a right to update.

In another aspect the present invention provides a title enabled network as defined above. In one embodiment of the title enabled network the use of network services and even the use of the network itself can be specified or enabled using rights described within one or more title materials. Those having ordinary skill in the art will understand that the title enabled network of the invention solves a variety of problems experienced by network providers today including the inability to effectively limit a user s use of their network and provide differentiated service s for example in the form of higher or lower available bandwidth without expensive endpoint provisioning or requiring a user to pass authentication materials over the various portions of the network and to translate them for each type of network device.

In one example a user can access a network accessible service that provides content such as a streaming movie. This service can be hosted any place in the world and is effectively limited only by the bandwidth of the slowest link in the network that the network traffic traverses between the user and the service host. In the example of a movie it is recognized that in order to view the movie satisfactorily a user requires a 1 Mb second link and a quality of service maximum delay of not more than 400 ms between the client and server. Users purchase rights for both the movie content and the network provisioned to make the movie accessible at a satisfactory quality of service. These rights are represented in this example as two separate rights embodied within one title object or set of title materials. As will be understood these rights may relate to different network layers. The rights also could be represented as two or more independent sets of title materials.

In this example the user provides at least one instance of the title materials expressing at least one right that is used by an aspect of a network to configure and provision user services in accordance with the right specified by the title materials. The one or more instances of the title materials provided by the user are used by various aspects of the network to provision the network and provide the desired content. For clarity the examples presume that the user has a single instance of the title materials e.g. a title object that expresses both rights but they may actually have a plurality of independent title materials provided from one or more sources.

As the user connects to a network in order to form a connection to watch the streaming movie they provide title materials representing rights for the movie and network provisioning. At least one aspect of the network recognizes the title materials as representing network provisioning rights and provides network services consistent with those specified by the rights to the user. In one particular embodiment the user provides the network title materials by providing the title materials in at least one network packet sent from the user to the streaming movie provider. In alternative embodiments the user provides the network title materials by providing the title materials to the network as part of one or more packets communicated directly with the network. In still another alternate embodiment the user provides title materials to the streaming movie provider and the streaming movie provider provides the network title materials that may be used to provision the network for the user. Each of these embodiments operates similarly.

Packets transmitted over a network connection for the user are inspected by various network components as the packets travel from the user to the network service. Upon recognizing title materials provided in the packet one or more network devices authenticate the title materials and provide the title authorized level of network service to the user. In one embodiment the identification of title materials in the packets need only be performed by edge devices where packets enter and leave a specific network. Examples of such edge devices may include gateway routers firewalls cable modems and DSL modems. In this example the network traffic is inspected at an edge device when the traffic enters a service provider s network. Upon inspection of the packet traffic an edge device determines if title materials are present. If no title materials are present the packet traffic is processed normally. If the packet traffic includes the necessary title materials the title materials are extracted from the packet traffic verified and then the edge device can map the traffic to a specific network traffic profile or route. For example a gateway border router can use existing route specifications such as existing MPLS defined routes to route packet traffic to and from the user to a streaming movie provider. Alternatively the gateway router can establish new routes reroute the packets or deny access to the network altogether based in part upon the title materials embedded in the network traffic. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the title materials do not need to be present in every packet of the network traffic but can be placed only in a subset of the packets. In one specific embodiment it is advantageous to present title materials in one or more of the following types of packets IPSec key exchange or TCP IP session initialization packets.

For example title materials may comprise specific specification materials that enable a network to provide a service specified by at least one right. In a particular example title materials may comprise a MPLS tag within a right specification. In an alternative example title materials may comprise routing and or quality of service parameters or other network provisioning specifications contained within a right specification. In a further alternative example title materials comprise an MPLS tag effective for use by a portion of the network between the user and the streaming movie provider.

Other high value services such as packet traffic protection and quality of service also may be specified within title materials. In these cases title materials may specify a right for at least an aspect of a user s packet traffic to be encrypted or otherwise protected may further specify the method of protection to be used and may further specify one or more destination services to which this traffic should be routed. In a particular example embodiment title materials may be used to specify an aspect of the IPSec and or VPN tunnel to be used to protect a user s network traffic.

Title based services enabled by embodiments of the invention are thus advantageous to service providers by permitting them to provide differentiated services to their customers. In addition embodiments of the invention also permit preferred traffic users such as emergency providers and first responders to access a wireless network and provide a quality of service that ensures their network traffic is passed without regard to other network loads. Those having ordinary skill in the art will recognize that cellular telephony carriers have provided this sort of differentiated service for voice calls but they have been unable to extend this capability for network data traffic across networks outside their control. The present invention permits these classes of users to operate from wherever they are connected without reliance upon specialty networks and protocols.

Title materials may be advantageously used when provisioning users and computers on a network. One common protocol for such provisioning is DHCP although other protocols such as BOOTP and UPNP also may be used. Provisioning decisions often are used to affect the nature of services a user is entitled to. For example a first user may be provisioned into a first logical network while a second user may be provisioned into a second logical network. The first user may have access to a first set of network services at a first specified quality of service and the second user may have access to a second set of network services at a second specified quality of service. The first and second users sets of network services may be identical may overlap or be completely disjointed and may require different levels of authentication or authorization in order to access them. In some embodiments the logical networks each user is provisioned for are carried on the same physical network but are logically separated using VLAN or other technologies. In other embodiments the logical networks for which each user is provisioned are provided by independent network devices and communication links.

Title enabled networks can provide differentiated service as described above based upon an aspect of one or more title materials presented by a user or a computer connected to the network. In some embodiments title materials can be provided as part of an initial service request. In a specific example a network enabled computer system embeds one or more title materials into an initial network service request. Alternatively title materials can be provided to a network device after a user is connected to the network.

The above process provides a mechanism for an arbitrary provisioning service to make provisioning decisions based upon title materials presented as part of a provisioning request. The basic technology is widely applicable to wireless access points IP enabled cellular telephones and other mobile devices that may benefit from its application.

In a first example embodiment a network client provides title materials that express at least one right for a class or type of network service or alternatively the title materials express a specification for a class or type of network service. Examples of network service specification and network service class or type specification is provided below 

The above example service identification describes Verizon s ADSL1.5M network service. This service name may be resolved by the title enabled network device to a service specification and may be further resolved to specific network device parameters and settings. Alternative service specifications may be provided for example City of Cupertino Municipal AOL Skype Business would name a specific service name for providing service to municipal workers of the city of Cupertino AOL subscribers and Skype business subscribers respectively. Each of these service types or classes are associated with one or more service specifications or network configurations that can be used by a title enabled network device to process network traffic on behalf of a user or network client.

Resolution of service identifications may take place within a title enabled network device or by using an external service such as a service router a directory service or a database. Alternatively an internal table or list of service identifications can be stored in a title enabled network device and used for this purpose.

In some embodiments title materials may specify a network service specification rather than a service class or type name. A network service specification describes one or more specifications for network service that may be used by a title enabled network device to configure at least an aspect of the network service provided to a user or network client.

The above example describes a service specification for an asynchronous link of 1.5 Mbps of network throughput for upload packet traffic from client to destination and a 7.5 Mbps of network throughput for download packet traffic from destination to client and a maximum latency of 100 ms for end to end traffic. Such a specification could be advantageously used to configure a user or network client to receive high quality streaming video service. A title enabled network device upon receiving such a network service specification resolves the specification to specific configuration information and uses that configuration information to process network traffic on behalf of a user or network client. Again resolution of the service specification to specific configuration parameters can occur internally or by using an external service or directory as described above.

In yet another example embodiment title materials may include pre configured network specifications such as a MPLS tag or other specific network configuration materials. For example 

The above example shows a description of a specific network service configuration that may be used by title enabled network devices when included in one or more title materials. The above example first specifies a DNS service configuration parameter to use as expressed in a dotted IP notation. Alternatively the parameter could specify a URI or URL for a service and may additionally provide options to the URI or URL. In addition the above example specifies that a DHCPPool of 10.2.0.0 should be used. A DHCP pool specification may be used to specify specific access restricted addresses or alternatively specify the DHCP pool a title enabled DHCP service should use when servicing a DHCP request. Lastly the above example specifies a MPLS tag of 0x14d. When used in this way the MPLS tag could be used by title enabled network devices to further process packet traffic on behalf of the user or network client. Typically such a MPLS tag is preconfigured by a network provider and is referenced by title materials.

Each of these methods of specifying network services may be extended in a wide variety of ways by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention. Specific title materials can use any of the described methods together or separately when specifying types of network services a title holder is entitled to receive.

According to various embodiments title materials may be embedded within network protocols to effect the presentation of the title materials at one or more network devices and their subsequent use within the network device to provide authentication authorization or to enable or configure each network device to provide levels of service consistent with rights represented by the title materials. Most network devices operate on standardized protocols and may not act properly when they receive network traffic in a non standard protocol or using a protocol that does not conform to the standard. Accordingly it is advantageous to embed title materials within existing network protocols so that title enabled devices can recognize and process them if they are present.

An example of a technique of embedding title materials into network traffic packets is explained using IPv6 but may also be used with IPSec and related IPv4 protocols as well as other protocols that provide an extensible payload definition. IPv6 was selected for this example for illustrative purposes.

In one embodiment title materials may be embedded within a low level networking protocol such as IP. In one specific embodiment title materials may be embedded in the low level protocol of IPv6. For example title materials may be embedded within a destination options header of an IPv6 packet. Alternative headers such as the routing header also may be used. Within the destination options header which encapsulates application protocol information title materials can be embedded so that they are part of an IPv6 packet and are transported as part of the packet between computers and network devices. An IPv6 packet having title materials embedded in this way will be carried by all IPv6 compatible network devices without alteration. Those network devices that are title aware can inspect network traffic for and act upon any title materials embedded within the packet traffic.

According to specific embodiments title materials can be embedded within an IPv6 packet in a number of ways. One approach is to embed the title materials using a customized IPv6 protocol stack e.g. in the network stack so that the IPv6 processing occurs at the lowest possible level within the stack.

Within a network session the first packet a subset of the packets or all packets in a session can carry embedded title materials. A network device can use title materials in the first packet to facilitate the authorization and authentication functions and this authorization and authentication may persist for the duration of the session. In some alternate embodiments it is not desirable to permit an authorization and authentication to persist for an entire session of indeterminate length. In these cases title materials may be communicated using a subset of the packets in the session and any required reauthorization can occur within the network device on an as needed basis.

In other embodiments title enabled network devices or processes may add or change the title materials contained within an IPv6 packet prior to forwarding the packet to its destination client or service. The added or changed title materials may include replacements to all or part of the title materials including adding additional title materials to the packet removing title materials from the packet or altering the title materials in the packet in some way. In particular embodiments a title may require a changed stub once it has been validated. In such embodiments the title enabled network device makes the necessary changes in title materials embedded in the IPv6 packet prior to forwarding the packet.

According to some embodiments of the present invention title materials can be used in to determine the type of DHCP attributes for example address subnet gateway router and other network attributes and associated level of service a user is entitled to. This title materials information may be embedded within DHCP messages e.g. in the options field of one or more DHCP messages in accordance with aspects of the DHCP protocol as described herein. The message then may be sent to a DHCP server according to any of the embodiments listed below.

A title enabled DHCP service can identify one or more title materials contained within the broadcast transmission that grants the transmitting system rights to access at least part of the network and provide a DHCP response comprising network provisioning information such as IP address network masks addresses of specific network services and the like that are effective to provide the transmitting system a network connection comprising access to a network and network services consistent with the rights described in the initial title materials. Alternatively the title enabled DHCP service cannot provide a response or provides a response that effectively limits the access of the user to specific network resources on the basis of provided title materials. An example of a limiting response might be to provide an IP address that can connect to basic resources but cannot use external network services. Alternatively the limiting response can provide access solely to a DMZ or other limited area of the network.

In another alternative embodiment the DHCP response from a title enabled DHCP server can provide additional parameters to be used by the user when sending their network traffic. For example a title enabled DHCP server can use provided title materials to select and provide one or more additional title materials network access tokens digital certificates or other materials such as a MPLS tag that can be subsequently used by a user or their computer to gain access or services from a network. The user s computer would typically include this information in message traffic such as by embedding it within a protocol sent by the user to ensure its appropriate handling by other portions of the network.

In yet another example embodiment a DHCPDISCOVERY broadcast also may include title materials in its options field and a title enabled DHCP service may choose to respond to the DHCPDISCOVERY broadcast on the basis of the embedded title materials.

Once an appropriate title enabled DHCP server is located a title enabled network client sends a specially constructed DHCPREQUEST packet to the title enabled DHCP server . This request packet embeds one or more title materials within the DHCPREQUEST packet. Preferably the title materials are embedded within an extensible field of the DHCPREQUEST packet such as the options area. The title enabled DHCP service receives the specially constructed DHCPREQUEST packet from the network for processing.

Upon receipt of a DHCP packet the title enabled DHCP server processes the packet. During this processing the title enabled DHCP service recognizes title materials in the options area of a DHCP packet either by using a defined option value or by inspection of the option contents . The identification of title materials typically occurs in a title enabled DHCP service when it processes the DHCP packet. A title enabled DHCP service then further processes the title materials contained in the DHCP packet. The processing may take the form of executing or invoking a right represented by the title materials or it may be to inspect the rights represented by the title materials and make determinations based upon information contained in the title materials. In either case a title enabled DHCP service identifies embedded title materials as described above and processes the title materials as described below. If no title materials are identified in the packet the title enabled DHCP server processes the DHCP request in a manner consistent with a non title enabled DHCP server.

When presented with title materials the DHCP service validates the title materials using a title resolver or another title verification mechanism such as a state server. In some embodiments a title enabled DHCP service uses the presented title materials with a service router database directory service or title resolver and uses the resulting materials to make the authorization provisioning and other decisions. A title resolver state server or other title verification mechanism can be included within a title enabled DHCP service or one may be operably connected to the title enabled DHCP server over a network. An example of a title resolver state server processing was described above. If the title materials are determined to be valid the title enabled DHCP service then determines the rights requested by the client and further determines the network parameters required to provide network services in accordance with a right expressed in the presented title materials . If the title materials are not valid the title enabled DHCP service may refuse service to the network client as shown by the No branch from decision or may alternatively process the DHCP request as if title materials were not present.

Once one or more valid title materials have been identified a title enabled DHCP server may process those title materials in a manner consistent with the type of title materials identified by the title enabled DHCP server. In one embodiment the title materials can be sent to a digital commerce engine or DCE not shown for further processing and the resulting title materials may be used to provision the network. In a second embodiment the title enabled DHCP service invokes one or more rights specified by the received title materials. Thus for example a title enabled DHCP service may recognize a specific right for high speed networking in the title materials and invoke that right. The invocation of the right may be performed by the title enabled DHCP service or by other title enabled components. Furthermore the right may be processed by the title enabled DHCP service. In some embodiments a title enabled DHCP service recognizes one or more rights invokes them and then provides services that fulfill the invoked rights.

In another embodiment the title enabled DHCP service uses one or more aspects of the received title materials to provision the client. In yet another embodiment the title enabled DHCP service uses one or more aspects of the received title materials to access a service or database to determine the network parameters and or provisioning specifications to use for a specific client. In this embodiment a title enabled DHCP service has an optional associated database of or service that provides e.g. database as shown in network parameters and or provisioning specifications including addresses netmasks available services etc. that the title enabled DHCP service may use to provide a response to a client. In some particular embodiments a title enabled DHCP service may have available to it a database of rights and their respective provisioning settings. Alternatively a title enabled DHCP service may use an aspect of at least one right to conduct a database search to determine the response values or may simply use a part of the provided title materials as the response values.

The DHCP service then packages up the response values e.g. network parameters specified by whatever mechanism and returns them to the client which uses them to establish a network connection that provides the client with access to the network based on at least an aspect of the title materials. In some particular embodiments the response values may comprise new additional or changed title materials in the response packet options area. The client may use these title materials from the response packet in various ways e.g. for authorization and access management to construct network traffic or to update existing titles stored at the client.

DHCP as used above is a non limiting example of a title enabled network service that provides users with access based upon at least one set of title materials. A reader skilled in the art will understand how the techniques described herein can be extended to other network technologies including mobile cellular networks operating on GSM CDSA iDEN or other cellular technologies and wireless network technologies such as the various versions of 802.11 e.g. a b g n and WiMax.

Title materials may be advantageously embedded in other generic network protocols including XML based protocols such as SOAP and XML RPC and within generic application protocols such as HTTP and FTP. Unlike existing title based service protocols use of generic protocols to transport titles and title materials provides additional opportunities to provide title enabled architectures using existing infrastructure.

Although seen primarily as a means to fetch pages of Hypertext Markup Language HTML content for display in a web browser HTTP is really a general purpose transport for any type of data.

HTTP may be advantageously used to encode title and right references within for example URIs. One mechanism for encoding title references within a URI is to encode a title or right reference in the same manner as a DOI or document ID. For example a title reference in a service registry might be encoded as 

The GET and POST operations within HTTP provide a generic mechanism within which to embed title materials for transport. HTTP further permits the use of title material specific content type and subtype e.g. X Navio Title XNavio TitleMaterials during the transmission of title materials using HTTP s GET and POST operations. The encoding of materials within GET and POST operations is well understood by those skilled in the art.

Modern service based architectures rely on RPC based architectures based upon XML RPC or the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . XML RPC is a remote procedure call protocol which uses XML to encode its calls and HTTP as a transport mechanism. SOAP is a standards based implementation of XML RPC technologies.

Both XML RPC and SOAP provide mechanisms for users to embed title materials within a remote procedure call request or response by adding the title materials to the XML structures comprising the request or response. Adding title materials to an XML structure should be well understood by those skilled in the art.

Both XML RPC and SOAP may be transported using application protocols such as HTTP. The use of HTTP and other application protocols is advantageous in that it permits network traffic to transit firewalls with minimal configuration. In addition to transmitting XML RPC or SOAP materials that may contain title materials HTTP and other application protocols may be used to transmit title materials independently using the same techniques. Thus a user may send title materials to a network service by embedding the title materials into HTTP or another application protocols using the well understood techniques used to embed XML RPC and SOAP within these protocols.

In some embodiments the response messages for protocols such as XML RPC and SOAP may further comprise additional or changed title materials for use by the client. The client may use these title materials from the response packet in various ways e.g. for authorization and access management to construct network traffic or to update existing titles stored at the client.

A network device described above such as the gateway border router or cable modem described above can operate upon title materials in a variety of ways. A title enabled network device is capable of reading title materials encoded in IP packets such as the destinations option header of an IPv6 packet or the options field of a DHCP message. Alternatively title materials can be presented as part of the authorization and authentication interchange conducted when a network client communicating with a network device. Once title materials are received by a title enabled network device an association then can be formed between the title materials and a source IP address by using the source IP address MAC address or other networking attributes of the network client. In some embodiments the network device can provide a service interface to which a user or network client can connect. For example current technology network devices such as routers switches and broadband modems often provide a web based interface for configuring the network device. Alternatively the service interface provided by a network device can be a protocol based service such as telnet or SOAP or any other well known protocol based service. In additional alternative embodiments title materials may be presented to a title enabled network device using a presentation protocol such as HTTP as described above. Network devices able to recognize at least one aspect of title materials and configure their operation in accordance with at least one aspect of the title materials are said to be title enabled.

In each of the embodiments described below the network device is provided with title materials. The title materials are then validated either in real time or in embodiments where response time is of the essence after the fact. In some embodiments the validation materials can be cached at the network device and validation can occur without additional network activity. Validation of title materials makes the aspects of the rights described therein available for use.

Once a title enabled network device identifies and validates title materials from a network client a network device may take one or more actions. First it may use aspects of the identified title materials to configure itself or other network devices to provide network services in accordance with the identified title materials. Second it may invoke one or more rights expressed by the title materials and use the process of invoking the rights to configure itself or other network devices to provide network services in accordance with the identified title materials. Third it may use the materials returned from the invocation of one or more rights to configure itself or other network devices to provide network services in accordance with the returned materials from the rights invocation. Fourth it may use aspects of the identified title materials to look up and return network configuration materials or title materials to a network client.

Furthermore each network device receiving title materials embedded in a network protocol where the network device is expected to forward the received packets to another network device or end destination may take one or more of the following actions as depicted in . illustrates the title materials being processed by a network device that removes the title materials from the packet traffic prior to forwarding the packet traffic. illustrates the title materials being processed by a network device where the network device forwards the packet traffic including the title materials without alternation. illustrates the title materials being processed by a network device where the network device adds removes or changes at least one part of the packet traffic to indicate that the title materials were processed. In the example shown in the figure the network device has made an addition to the packet traffic such as an MPLS tag. illustrates the title materials being processed by a network device to add remove or change an aspect of the title materials in accordance with the results of processing said title materials. As shown in an aspect of the title materials has been changed and the changed materials placed in the packet .

A title enabled router is a specific embodiment of a title enabled network device that can provide network services in accordance with at least one aspect of title materials provided to it. Title enabled routers provide unique services in that they process all network traffic and may be used to provide rights specified networking services. There are several ways that a router can detect and act upon title materials. For example a title enabled router can inspect a destination options header or other optional headers of one or more packets. In particular a router can inspect an IPv6 packet for a destination option header or other optional header and if one is found inspect that header for title materials. In an alternate embodiment a title enabled router can detect title materials based on content inspection of a packet being processed by the title enabled router. For protocols that do not support embedded title materials a title enabled router can make routing decisions and assignments based on an aspect of a network configuration parameter such as a MPLS header a source IP or other networking option used by the source network client. In some embodiments the network configuration parameter recognized by a title enabled router is one assigned to a network client by a title enabled DHCP service as described above.

In a particular embodiment a right expressed by title materials can describe a preferential network service routing enabled by a MPLS tag supported by the router. The MPLS tag can be contained within the title materials itself or can be content referenced by the title materials. Continuing with the example the validation of the title materials makes the title represented right of create connection available. Other title enabled rights also may enable specific types classes or performance levels of network connections. The create connection right names a service that creates a connection and parameterizes this service with the MPLS tag to use with traffic associated with the connection. When a user or network client requests a connection be created the network device calls the service identified by the title materials and passes the MPLS tag to that service. The service then sets up the connection for the user or network client and returns the MPLS tag to the user s IP stack for embedding in the protocol packets. Alternatively the service can configure the router to tag all traffic from the user or network client using the named MPLS tag and to route that traffic in accordance with the defined network tag. Alternatively the router can create a MPLS tag and use that tag as described above.

According to specific embodiments a title enabled wireless access point is an 802.11a 802.11b g or wireless mesh device capable of reading title materials held by a user on their network device such as a laptop Palm Pilot etc. . The user s title materials are presented by the network client when the client requests a DHCP address from the wireless network. This request is routed using the appropriate 802.11 wireless protocol. The title enabled wireless access point makes a decision from the request packet on how to route the request. Alternatively the title enabled wireless access point routes all packets to another network device such as a title enabled router described above. The title materials instruct a DHCP server on the wireless network to provide the user with an IP address and level of service commensurate with the title materials presented.

A title enabled wireless access point can be coupled with DHCP as described above to provide a suitable IP address for any given client. For example one client may present title materials that entitle them to high bandwith service while another receives a dedicated pipeline to a partner network walled garden and a third who doesn t have title materials is presented with the network s credit card server in order to buy pay as you go time on the network.

The title enabled wireless access point can handle multiple addresses from different address networks to effectively manage the network traffic. This routing capability is present in most wireless access points today.

A title enabled wireless access point reduces the complexity of networks that support a plurality of classes of users each of which receives differentiated service levels. In conventional networks each class of user is provisioned with a unique SSID. Users connect to the desired SSID to receive each level of differentiated service. Metropolitan and campus networks must provide wireless access points that support a plurality of SSIDs or must provide a plurality of wireless access points each providing a different SSID. Examples of these types of networks include campus and metropolitan networks 

Use of title enabled wireless access points permit the reduction in complexity and number of wireless access points because they permit all users to connect to a specific SSID instead of requiring different SSIDs for each class of user. This reduces the number of devices and the complexity of devices effectively reducing the deployment cost of the network.

A particular problem that embodiments of the present invention alleviates is the differentiated use of network bandwidth based upon rights. Today network providers such as BitTorrent suffer performance degradation resulting from too many users downloading large pieces of content in a given period effectively using all of the available bandwidth and preventing some users from attaining acceptable throughput. Network providers must therefore design to their maximum surge requirement based upon all users who can request access at a specific time. Using the software systems and methods provided by the invention a class of differentiated e.g. premium and limited network bandwidth users can be established having access to either higher or lower available bandwidth based in part upon information provided when the user connects to the network. Unlike the point of presence connection to the network described above the differentiated service spans an entire network and can span a plurality of networks provided by more than one network provider.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that changes in the form and details of the disclosed embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. For example reference has been made herein to various types of computing platforms network configurations protocols and processes which may be employed to implement various aspects of specific embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that such reference should not be used to narrow the scope of the invention. Rather such references will be understood to be made by way of example and it will be further understood that any of a wide variety of computing platforms network configurations protocols processes computing models and the like may be employed to implement embodiments of the invention without departing from the scope of the invention. For example embodiments of the invention are not limited to specific types of computing platforms or network devices referred to herein. To the contrary virtually any type of computing device having at least one interface for receiving or transmitting data e.g. packets frames etc. and at least one processor e.g. CPU processing cores processor clusters etc. to facilitate processing of such data may be employed to implement various aspects of the invention as will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

In addition although various advantages aspects and objects of the present invention have been discussed herein with reference to various embodiments it will be understood that the scope of the invention should not be limited by reference to such advantages aspects and objects. Rather the scope of the invention should be determined with reference to the appended claims.

