---

title: Using biometric data for a customer to improve upsale ad cross-sale of items
abstract: A computer implemented method, apparatus, and computer usable program code for generating customized marketing messages to increase purchases by a customer. In one embodiment, an item selected by the customer is identified to form a selected item. Biometric readings for the customer are received from a set of biometric devices associated with a retail facility to form the biometric data. The biometric data is data regarding a set of physiological responses of the customer. A set of items is selected from a list of items associated with the selected item using the biometric data for the customer to form a set of promoted items. A customized marketing message for the customer is generated using a set of personalized marketing message criteria for the customer. The customized marketing message comprises a marketing message for the set of promoted items.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09031858&OS=09031858&RS=09031858
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09031858
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070926
---
This application is a continuation in part of patent application U.S. Ser. No. 11 695 983 filed Apr. 3 2007 titled Method and Apparatus for Providing Customized Digital Media Marketing Content Directly to a Customer which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is also related to the following applications entitled Identifying Significant Groupings of Customers for Use in Customizing Digital Media Marketing Content Provided Directly to a Customer application Ser. No. 11 744 024 filed May 3 2007 Generating Customized Marketing Messages at a Customer Level Using Current Events Data application Ser. No. 11 769 409 file Jun. 24 2007 Generating Customized Marketing Messages Using Automatically Generated Customer Identification Data application Ser. No. 11 756 198 filed May 31 2007 Generating Customized Marketing Messages for a Customer Using Dynamic Customer Behavior Data application Ser. No. 11 771 252 filed Jun. 29 2007 Retail Store Method and System Robyn Schwartz Publication No. US 2006 0032915 A1 filed Aug. 12 2004 Business Offering Content Delivery Robyn R. Levine Publication No. US 2002 0111852 filed Jan. 16 2001 all assigned to a common assignee and all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is related generally to an improved data processing system and in particular to a method and apparatus for processing video and audio data. More particularly the present invention is directed to a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for using biometric data for a customer to generate customized marketing messages promoting upsales and cross sales of items.

When a customer shows interest in purchasing a particular item merchants frequently attempt to induce the customer to purchase a more expensive brand of the item an upgraded version of the item a larger and more expensive size of the item and or other additions and special features for the item to make the sale more profitable. These sales techniques are sometimes referred to as upselling or upsale. For example if a user is interested in purchasing a used car the salesman may attempt to induce the customer into purchasing a more expensive new car instead. If the salesman is successful the upsale of the more expensive car will likely generate greater profit and or greater revenue.

Another sales technique involves selling related products to customers to increase profit and or revenue. For example if a customer shows interest in purchasing a bicycle the salesman may attempt to induce the customer into purchasing a bicycle helmet a bicycle tire pump a spare tire an extra bicycle chain and or other items that might be used in conjunction with the bicycle. This sales technique is referred to as cross selling.

In the past merchants such as store owners and operators frequently had a personal relationship with their customers. The merchant often knew their customers names address marital status ages of their children hobbies place of employment anniversaries birthdays likes dislikes and personal preferences. The merchant was able to use this information to cater to customer needs and push upsales and cross sales of items the customer might be likely to purchase based on the customer s personal situation and the merchant s personal knowledge of purchases by his customers.

However with the continued growth of large cities the corresponding disappearance of small rural towns and the increasing number of large impersonal chain stores with multiple employees the merchants and employees of retail businesses rarely recognize regular customers and almost never know the customer s name or any other details regarding their customer s personal preferences that might assist the merchant or employee in marketing efforts directed toward a particular customer.

One solution to this problem is directed toward using profile data for a customer to generate marketing messages that may be sent to the customer by email print media telephone or over the World Wide Web via a web page. Customer profile data typically includes information provided by the customer in response to a questionnaire or survey such as name address telephone number gender and indicators of particular products the customer is interested in purchasing. Demographic data regarding a customer s age sex income career interests hobbies and consumer preferences may also be included in customer profile data.

Advertising computers can generate a customer advertisement based on the customer s static profile. However this method only provides a small number of pre generated advertisements that are directed towards a fairly large segment of the population rather than to one individual.

In another solution user profile data demographic data point of contact data and transaction data are analyzed to generate advertising content for customers that target the information content presented to individual consumers or users to increase the likelihood that the customer will purchase the goods or services presented. Current solutions do not utilize all of the potential customer data elements that may be available to a retail owner or operator for generating customized marketing messages targeted to individual customers. Other data pieces are needed to provide effective dynamic one to one marketing of messages to the potential customer. Therefore the data elements in prior art only provides approximately seventy five percent 75 of the needed data.

The illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for generating customized marketing messages to increase purchases by a customer. In one embodiment an item selected by the customer is identified to form a selected item. Biometric readings for the customer are received from a set of biometric devices associated with a retail facility to form the biometric data. The biometric data is data regarding a set of physiological responses of the customer. A set of items is selected from a list of items associated with the selected item using the biometric data for the customer to form a set of promoted items. A customized marketing message for the customer is generated using a set of personalized marketing message criteria for the customer. The customized marketing message comprises a marketing message promoting a sale of the set of promoted items.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

With reference now to the figures depicts a pictorial representation of a network of data processing systems in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Network data processing system is a network of computers in which embodiments may be implemented. Network data processing system contains network which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within network data processing system . Network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables.

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage area network SAN . Storage area network is a network connecting one or more data storage devices to one or more servers such as servers and . A data storage device may include but is not limited to tape libraries disk array controllers tape drives flash memory a hard disk and or any other type of storage device for storing data. Storage area network allows a computing device such as client to connect to a remote data storage device over a network for block level input output.

In addition clients and connect to network . These clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients and . Clients and are clients to server in this example.

Digital customer marketing environment also connects to network . Digital customer marketing environment is a marketing environment in which a customer may view select order and or purchase one or more items. Digital customer marketing environment may include one or more facilities buildings or other structures for wholly or partially containing the items. A facility may include but is not limited to a grocery store a clothing store a marketplace a retail department store a convention center or any other type of structure for housing storing displaying and or selling items.

Items in digital customer marketing environment may include but are not limited to comestibles clothing shoes toys cleaning products household items machines any type of manufactured items entertainment and or educational materials as well as entrance or admittance to attend or receive an educational or entertainment service activity or event. Items for purchase could also include services such as ordering dry cleaning services food delivery or any other services.

Comestibles include solid liquid and or semi solid food and beverage items. Comestibles may be but are not limited to meat products dairy products fruits vegetables bread pasta pre prepared or ready to eat items as well as unprepared or uncooked food and or beverage items. For example a comestible could include without limitation a box of cereal a steak tea bags a cup of tea that is ready to drink popcorn pizza candy or any other edible food or beverage items.

An entertainment or educational activity event or service may include but is not limited to a sporting event a music concert a seminar a convention a movie a ride a game a theatrical performance and or any other performance show or spectacle for entertainment or education of customers. For example entertainment or educational activity or event could include without limitation the purchase of seating at a football game purchase of a ride on a roller coaster purchase of a manicure or purchase of admission to view a film.

Digital customer marketing environment may also includes a parking facility for parking cars trucks motorcycles bicycles or other vehicles for conveying customers to and from digital customer marketing environment . A parking facility may include an open air parking lot an underground parking garage an above ground parking garage an automated parking garage and or any other area designated for parking customer vehicles.

For example digital customer marketing environment may be but is not limited to a grocery store a retail store a department store an indoor mall an outdoor mall a combination of indoor and outdoor retail areas a farmer s market a convention center a sports arena or stadium an airport a bus depot a train station a marina a hotel fair grounds an amusement park a water park and or a zoo.

Digital customer marketing environment encompasses a range or area in which marketing messages may be transmitted to a digital display device for presentation to a customer within digital customer marketing environment. Digital multimedia management software is used to manage and or enable generation management transmission and or display of marketing messages within digital customer marketing environment. Examples of digital multimedia management software include but are not limited to Scala digital media digital signage software EK3 digital media digital signage software and or Allure digital media software.

In this example digital customer marketing environment is connected to server and server via network . In another embodiment digital customer marketing environment includes one or more servers located on site at digital customer marketing environment. In this example network is optional. In other words if one or more servers and or data processing systems are located at digital customer marketing environment the illustrative embodiments are capable of being implemented without a network connection.

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as without limitation an intranet an Ethernet a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN .

Network data processing system may also include additional data storage devices such as without limitation a hard disk a compact disk CD a compact disk rewritable CD RW a flash memory a compact disk read only memory CD ROM a non volatile random access memory NV RAM and or any other type of storage device for storing data

A merchant owner operator manager or other employee associated with digital customer marketing environment typically wants to market upsale items or related cross sale products or services to a customer or potential customer in the most convenient and efficient manner possible so as to maximize resulting purchases of goods and or services by the customer and increase revenue. Therefore the aspects of the illustrative embodiments recognize that it is advantageous for the merchant to have as much information regarding a customer as possible to identify which items are most likely or expected to be purchased by the customer and therefore the best candidates for marketing to the customer and personalize the merchant s marketing strategy to that particular customer.

In addition customers generally prefer to only receive marketing messages that are relevant to that particular customer. For example a single college student with no children would typically not be interested in marketing messages offering sale prices or incentives for purchasing baby diapers or children s toys. In addition that college student would not want to waste their time viewing such marketing messages. Likewise a customer that is a non smoker may be inconvenienced by being presented with advertisements email digital messages or other marketing messages for tobacco products.

Therefore the illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for generating customized marketing messages to increase purchases by a customer. In one embodiment an item selected by the customer is identified to form a selected item. Biometric readings for the customer are received from a set of biometric devices associated with a retail facility to form the biometric data. As used herein the term set includes one or more.

The biometric data is data regarding a set of physiological responses of the customer. A set of items is selected from a list of items associated with the selected item using the biometric data for the customer to form a set of promoted items. A set of promoted items includes a single promoted item as well as two or more promoted items. A customized marketing message for the customer is generated using a set of personalized marketing message criteria for the customer. The customized marketing message comprises a marketing message for the set of promoted items.

In one embodiment the list of items associated with the selected items is a list of upsale items. An upsale item in the set of promoted items is an item that provides a same basic functionality as the selected item. In this example the customized marketing message prompts the customer to purchase the upsale item instead of the selected item because a sale of the upsale item to the customer produces a greater amount of revenue or a greater amount of profit than a sale of the selected item.

In another embodiment the list of items associated with the selected items is a list of correlated items. A correlated item provides a different basic functionality than the selected item. The process identifies a set of items in a list of correlated items to form the set of promoted items. The customized marketing message prompts the customer to purchase the correlated item in the set of promoted items in addition to the selected item.

The customized marketing message is a marketing message that is generated for a particular customer or group of customers based on one or more personalized message criteria for the customer. In other words the customized marketing message is a highly personalized marketing message for a specific or particular customer. The personalized marketing message may include special offers or incentives to a particular customer. An incentive is an offer of a discount or reward to encourage a customer to select order and or purchase one or more items.

The customized marketing message is more than just a marketing message that includes the customer s name or address. The customized marketing message presents a marketing message pushing the sale of an item that is selected and generated dynamically in real time as the customer is shopping in the store.

Retail facility is a retail facility for wholly or partially storing enclosing or displaying items for marketing viewing selection order and or purchase by a customer. For example retail facility may be without limitation a retail store supermarket book store clothing store or shopping mall. However retail facility is not limited to retail stores. For example retail facility may also include without limitation a sports arena amusement park water park convention center trade center or any other facility for offering providing or displaying items for sale. In this example retail facility is a grocery store or a department store.

Detectors are devices for gathering data associated with a set of customers. A set of customers is a set of one or more customers. Detectors are examples of detectors that are located externally to retail facility . In this example detectors are located at locations along an outer perimeter of digital customer marketing environment . However detectors may be located at any position within digital customer marketing environment that is outside retail facility to detect customers before the customers enter retail facility and or after customers leave digital customer marketing environment .

Detectors may be any type of detecting devices for gathering dynamic data associated with a customer located outside of retail facility including but not limited to a camera a set of one or more motion sensor devices a sonar microphone sound recording device audio detection device a voice recognition system a heat sensor a seismograph a pressure sensor a device for detecting odors scents and or fragrances a radio frequency identification RFID tag reader a global positioning system GPS receiver and or any other detection device for detecting a presence of a human animal and or vehicle outside of the retail facility. A vehicle is any type of vehicle for conveying people animals or objects to a destination. A vehicle may include but is not limited to a car bus truck motorcycle boat airplane or any other type of vehicle.

A heat sensor is any known or available device for detecting heat such as but not limited to a thermal imaging device for generating images showing thermal heat patterns. A heat sensor can detect body heat generated by a human or animal and or heat generated by a vehicle such as an automobile or a motorcycle. A set of heat sensors may include one or more heat sensors.

A motion detector may include any type of known or available motion detector device. A motion detector device may include but is not limited to a motion detector device using a photo sensor radar or microwave radio detector or ultrasonic sound waves.

A motion detector using ultrasonic sound waves transmits or emits ultrasonic sound waves. The motion detector detects or measures the ultrasonic sound waves that are reflected back to the motion detector. If a human animal or other object moves within the range of the ultrasonic sound waves generated by the motion detector the motion detector detects a change in the echo of sound waves reflected back. This change in the echo indicates the presence of a human animal or other object moving within the range of the motion detector.

In one example a motion detector device using a radar or microwave radio detector may detect motion by sending out a burst of microwave radio energy and detecting the same microwave radio waves when the radio waves are deflected back to the motion detector. If a human animal or other object moves into the range of the microwave radio energy field generated by the motion detector the amount of energy reflected back to the motion detector is changed. The motion detector identifies this change in reflected energy as an indication of the presence of a human animal or other object moving within the motion detectors range.

A motion detector device using a photo sensor detects motion by sending a beam of light across a space into a photo sensor. The photo sensor detects when a human animal or object breaks or interrupts the beam of light as the human animal or object by moving in between the source of the beam of light and the photo sensor. These examples of motion detectors are presented for illustrative purposes only. A motion detector in accordance with the illustrative embodiments may include any type of known or available motion detector and is not limited to the motion detectors described herein.

A pressure sensor detector may be for example a device for detecting a change in weight or mass associated with the pressure sensor. For example if one or more pressure sensors are imbedded in a sidewalk Astroturf or floor mat the pressure sensor detects a change in weight or mass when a human customer or animal steps on the pressure sensor. The pressure sensor may also detect when a human customer or animal steps off of the pressure sensor. In another example one or more pressure sensors are embedded in a parking lot and the pressure sensors detect a weight and or mass associated with a vehicle when the vehicle is in contact with the pressure sensor. A vehicle may be in contact with one or more pressure sensors when the vehicle is driving over one or more pressure sensors and or when a vehicle is parked on top of one or more pressure sensors.

A camera may be any type of known or available camera including but not limited to a video camera for taking moving video images a digital camera capable of taking still pictures and or a continuous video stream a stereo camera a web camera and or any other imaging device capable of capturing a view of whatever appears within the camera s range for remote monitoring viewing or recording of a distant or obscured person object or area.

Various lenses filters and other optical devices such as zoom lenses wide angle lenses mirrors prisms and the like may also be used with an image capture device to assist in capturing the desired view. The image capture device may be fixed in a particular orientation and configuration or it may along with any optical devices be programmable in orientation light sensitivity level focus or other parameters. Programming data may be provided via a computing device such as server in .

An image capture device may be without limitation one or more cameras. A camera may also be a stationary camera and or non stationary cameras. A non stationary camera is a camera that is capable of moving and or rotating along one or more directions such as up down left right and or rotate about an axis of rotation. The camera may also be capable of moving to follow or track a person animal or object in motion. In other words the camera may be capable of moving about an axis of rotation in order to keep a customer animal or object within a viewing range of the camera lens. In this example detectors are non stationary digital video cameras.

Detectors are connected to an analysis server on a data processing system such as network data processing system in . The analysis server is illustrated and described in greater detail in below. The analysis server includes software for analyzing digital images and other data captured by detectors to track and or visually identify retail items containers and or customers outside retail facility . Attachment of identifying marks may be part of this visual identification in the illustrative embodiments.

The analysis server analyzes and or processes the data captured by detectors to form dynamic data. Dynamic data is data associated with a customer that is generated in real time as a customer is shopping at a retail facility. Real time refers to something that occurs immediately as or within some period of time needed to achieve an objective.

As used herein data associated with a customer may include data regarding the customer members of the customer s family pets cars or other vehicles the customer s shopping companions the customer s friends and or any other data pertaining to the customer. The customized marketing message is delivered to a display device associated with the customer for display.

Dynamic data is data for a customer that is gathered and processed in real time as a customer is shopping or browsing in digital customer marketing environment . Processing dynamic data may include but is not limited to formatting the dynamic data for utilization and or analysis in one or more data models combining the dynamic data with external data and or static customer data comparing the dynamic data to a data model and or filtering the dynamic data for relevant data elements.

Dynamic data is processed or filtered for analysis in a set of one or more data models. For example if the dynamic data includes video images of a customer inside a retail facility the video images may need to be processed to convert the video images into data and or metadata for analysis in one or more data models. For example a data model may not be capable of analyzing raw or unprocessed video images captured by a camera. The video images may need to be processed into data and or meta data describing the contents of the video images before a data model may be used to organize structure or otherwise manipulate data and or metadata. The video images converted to data and or meta data that is ready for processing or analysis in a set of data models is an example of processed dynamic data.

The dynamic data is analyzed using a set of data models to identify and create specific and personalized marketing message criteria for the customer. A set of data models includes one or more data models. A data model is a model for structuring defining organizing imposing limitations or constraints and or otherwise manipulating data and metadata to produce a result. A data model may be generated using any type of modeling method or simulation including but not limited to a statistical method a data mining method a causal model a mathematical model a marketing model a behavioral model a psychological model a sociological model or a simulation model.

The dynamic data may be analyzed in a single data model or in a series of data models. For example and without limitation a first data model in a series of data models is used to analyze the dynamic data. The output results of analyzing the dynamic data in the first data model is entered into a second data model as input. The output of the second data model is then entered into a third data model as input for analysis. This process can continue until the dynamic data has been analyzed in any number of data models in the set of data models. In another example the dynamic data is analyzed in parallel in two or more data models in the set of data models. The results output by the two or more data models are used to generate the customized marketing message and or identify upsale and or cross sale items to be marketed to the customer.

In the embodiments described herein dynamic data includes but is not limited to external data grouping data current events data identification data and or customer behavior data. Thus dynamic data can be only external data external data and grouping data external data grouping data current events data identification data and or customer behavior data or any other combination of these types of dynamic data.

External data is data regarding detection of a customer s presence outside a retail facility a detection of a customer outside the retail facility that is moving toward an entrance to the retail facility indicating that the customer is about to go inside the facility and or detection of a customer exiting the retail facility. The external data may also indicate detection of a presence of a customer s vehicle such as a car bicycle motorcycle bus or truck. External data may also include without limitation grouping data identification data and or customer behavior data.

The external data is gathered by detectors . Thus the external data includes without limitation video images sound recorded by a microphone or other sound recording device pressure sensor data gathered by one or more pressure sensors data received from heat sensors radio frequency identification tag signals recognized by a radio frequency identification tag reader and or any other type of detection data.

In this example four detectors detectors are located outside retail facility . However any number of detectors may be used to detect track and or gather dynamic data associated with customers outside retail facility . For example a single detector as well as two or more detectors may be used outside retail facility for tracking customers entering and or exiting retail facility .

Retail facility may also optionally include set of detectors inside retail facility . Set of detectors is a set of one or more detectors such as detectors for gathering dynamic data inside retail facility . The dynamic data gathered by set of detectors includes without limitation grouping data identification data and or customer behavior data.

Grouping data is data regarding a grouping category for a customer. A grouping category describes the relationship of a group or subset of customers. A grouping category includes without limitation parents with children teenagers children minors unaccompanied by adults minors accompanied by adults grandparents with grandchildren senior citizens couples friends coworkers a customer shopping alone a customer accompanied by one or more pets such as a dog or any other category for a customer.

Grouping data is generated using either external data or detection data gathered inside a retail facility. Detection data gathered inside the retail facility includes but is not limited to video images of a customer captured by cameras located inside or internally to a retail facility and or data regarding the current or real time contents of a customer s shopping basket gathered by a set of radio frequency identification sensors located inside the retail facility.

Identification data is data identifying a customer or a customer s vehicle. Identification data may be generated by using facial recognition technology to analyze camera images and identify customers. Video images of a customer s car may also be analyzed to identify the car s license plate make model year color and or other attributes of the vehicle which may be used to identify the vehicle. The identification of the vehicle can then be used to identify the customer that owns and or drives the vehicle. Identification data is generated using either external data gathered outside the retail facility or detection data gathered inside the retail facility.

Current events data is data describing events news items holidays event days when an event is scheduled to take place and competitor marketing data. An event may be any type of event including without limitation parades sports events conventions shows theater and movie show times concerts opera performances and circus performances. An event may also be a holiday or other significant date. Holidays may be days like Christmas Thanksgiving Earth Day Memorial Day Easter Election Day or any other day. A significant date may include without limitation the customer s birthday anniversary children s birthdays birthdays and anniversary of family and friends the first day of school the first day of summer vacation or any other significant dates. Competitor marketing data includes without limitation data describing competitor prices sales discounts on items rebates special offers incentives give a ways free food competitor store locations competitor store hours of operation competitor store openings competitor store close out sales or going out of business sales competitor inventory and or any other available data regarding competitor marketing.

Customer behavior data is data describing a pattern of events associated with the customer. Customer behavior data includes without limitation data describing locations in the retail facility where the customer has walked the pace or speed at which the customer is walking the amount of time the customer browses for items on a shelf before selecting an item and placing the item in the customer s shopping basket or cart and or the rate at which the customer selects items for purchase over time. Customer behavior data is generated using either external data gathered outside the retail facility or detection data gathered inside the retail facility.

Set of detectors may be located at any location within retail facility . In addition set of detectors may include multiple detectors located at differing locations within retail facility . For example a detector in set of detectors may be located without limitation at an entrance to retail facility on one or more shelves in retail facility and or on one or more doors and or doorways in retail facility .

For example set of detectors may include one or more cameras or other image capture devices located inside retail facility for tracking and or identifying items containers for items shopping containers and shopping carts and or customers inside retail facility to form internal data. The camera or other detector in set of detectors may be coupled to and or in communication with the analysis server. In addition more than one image capture device may be operated simultaneously without departing from the illustrative embodiments of the present invention.

Display devices are multimedia devices for displaying customized marketing messages to customers. Display devices may be any type of display device for presenting a text graphic audio video and or any combination of text graphics audio and video to a customer. In this example display devices are located inside retail facility . Display devices include one or more display devices inside retail facility for use and or viewing by at least one customer.

Display devices include one or more display devices located outside retail facility such as without limitation display devices located in a parking lot queue line and or other area outside of retail facility . A display device may be implemented as a device such as without limitation a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with a display screen an electronic sign a laptop computer a tablet PC a kiosk a digital media display a digital message board a monitor a smart watch a display screen mounted on a shopping container and or any other type of device for displaying digital messages to a customer. The display device may optionally include a printer for printing the customized marketing message on a paper medium. Display devices may be used in the absence of display devices inside retail facility or in addition to display devices located inside retail facility .

Biometric devices include one or more devices for measuring and or detecting a change in biometric readings of a customer that exceeds a threshold or baseline change in biometric readings. Biometric readings may include a measurement of a customer s heart rate over a given period of time blood pressure voice stress skin temperature data body temperature data pupil dilation fingerprint data respiration and or an amount of perspiration. If biometric devices measures a change in biometric readings for a customer that exceeds a predefined threshold change that corresponds to a customer viewing an item and or a marketing message the change in the customer s biometric readings may be attributed to the item and or the marketing message.

Container is a container for holding carrying transporting or moving one or more items. For example container may be without limitation a shopping cart a shopping bag a shopping basket and or any other type of container for holding items. In this example container is a shopping cart.

In this example in only one container is depicted inside retail facility . However any number of containers may be used inside and or outside retail facility for holding carrying transporting or moving items selected by customers.

Container may optionally include biometric device . Biometric device is a biometric device attached to or installed on container . Biometric device is a device for gathering biometric data such as biometric devices . For example biometric device may be a device for measuring a customer s heart rate that is attached to or imbedded within a handle on a shopping cart. Biometric device may also be a device attached coupled to or associated with any other part or member of a shopping cart or other shopping container.

Container may also optionally include identification tag . Identification tag is a tag for identifying container locating container within digital customer marketing environment either inside or outside retail facility and or associating container with a particular customer. For example identification tag may be a radio frequency identification RFID tag a universal product code UPC tag a global positioning system GPS tag and or any other type of identification tag for identifying locating and or tracking a container.

Container may also include display device coupled to mounted on attached to or imbedded within container . Display device is a multimedia display device for displaying textual graphical video and or audio marketing messages to a customer. For example display device may be a digital display screen or personal digital assistant attached to a handle front back or side member of container .

Display device may be operatively connected to a data processing system such as data processing system connected to digital customer marketing environment in via wireless infrared radio or other connection technologies known in the art for the purpose of transferring data to be displayed on display device . The data processing system includes the analysis server for analyzing dynamic external customer data obtained from detectors and set of detectors as well as internal customer data obtained from one or more databases storing data associated with one or more customers.

Retail items are items of merchandise for sale. Retail items may be displayed on a display shelf not shown located in retail facility . Other items of merchandise that may be for sale such as without limitation food beverages shoes clothing household goods decorative items or sporting goods may be hung from display racks displayed in cabinets on shelves or in refrigeration units not shown . Any other type of merchandise display arrangement known in the retail trade may also be used in accordance with the illustrative embodiments.

For example display shelves or racks may include in addition to retail items various advertising displays images or postings. A multimedia display device attached to a data processing system may also be included. The images shown on the multimedia display may be changed in real time in response to various events such as the time of day the day of the week a particular customer approaching the shelves or rack or items already placed inside container by the customer.

Retail items may be viewed or identified using an image capture device such as a camera or other detector in set of detectors . To facilitate such viewing an item may have attached identification tags . Identification tags are tags associated with one or more retail items for identifying the item and or location of the item. For example identification tags may be without limitation a bar code pattern such as a universal product code UPC or European article number EAN a radio frequency identification RFID tag or other optical identification tag depending on the capabilities of the image capture device and associated data processing system to process the information and make an identification of retail items . In some embodiments an optical identification may be attached to more than one side of a given item.

The data processing system discussed in greater detail in below includes associated memory which may be an integral part such as the operating memory of the data processing system or externally accessible memory. Software for tracking objects may reside in the memory and run on the processor. The software is capable of tracking retail items as a customer removes an item in retail items from its display position and places the item into container . Likewise the tracking software can track items which are being removed from container and placed elsewhere in the retail store whether placed back in their original display position or anywhere else including into another container. The tracking software can also track the position of container and the customer.

The software can track retail items by using data from one or more of detectors located externally to retail facility internal data captured by one or more detectors in set of detectors located internally to retail facility such as identification data received from identification tags and or identification data received from identification tags .

The software in the data processing system keeps a list of which items have been placed in each shopping container such as container . The list is stored in a database. The database may be any type of database such as a spreadsheet relational database hierarchical database or the like. The database may be stored in the operating memory of the data processing system externally on a secondary data storage device locally on a recordable medium such as a hard drive floppy drive CD ROM DVD device remotely on a storage area network such as storage area network in or in any other type of storage device.

The lists of items in container are updated frequently enough to maintain a dynamic accurate real time listing of the contents of each container as customers add and remove items from containers such as container . The listings of items in containers are also made available to whatever inventory system is used in retail facility . Such listings represent an up to the minute view of which items are still available for sale for example to on line shopping customers or customers physically located at retail facility . The listings may also provide a demand side trigger back to the supplier of each item. In other words the listing of items in customer shopping containers can be used to update inventories determine current stock available for sale to customers and or identification of items that need to be restocked or replenished.

At any time the customer using container may request to see a listing of the contents of container by entering a query at a user interface to the data processing system. The user interface may be available at a kiosk computer personal digital assistant or other computing device connected to the data processing system via a network connection. The user interface may also be coupled to a display device such as at a display device in display devices display devices or display device associated with container . The customer may also make such a query after leaving the retail store. For example a query may be made using a portable device or a home computer workstation.

The listing is then displayed at a location where it may be viewed by the customer such as on a display device in display devices inside retail facility display devices outside retail facility or display device associated with container . The listing may include the quantity of each item in container as well as the price for each a discount or amount saved off the regular price of each item and a total price for all items in container . Other data may also be displayed as part of the listing such as additional incentives to purchase one or more other items available in digital customer marketing environment .

When the customer is finished shopping the customer may proceed to a point of sale checkout station. In one embodiment the checkout station may be coupled to the data processing system. Therefore the items in container are already known to the data processing system due to the dynamic listing of items in container that is maintained as the customer shops in digital customer marketing environment . Thus there is no need for an employee customer or other person to scan each item in container to complete the purchase of each item as is commonly done today. In this example the customer merely arranges for payment of the total for example by use of a smart card credit card debit card cash or other payment method. In some embodiments it may not be necessary to empty container at the retail facility at all for example if container is a minimal cost item which can be kept by the customer.

In other embodiments container may belong to the customer. In this example the customer brings container to retail facility at the start of the shopping session. In another embodiment container belongs to retail facility and must be returned before the customer leaves the parking lot or at some other designated time or place.

In another example when the customer is finished shopping the customer may complete checkout either in aisle or from a final or terminal based checkout position in the store using a transactional device which may be integral with container or associated temporarily to container . The customer may also complete the transaction using a consumer owned computing device such as a laptop cellular telephone or personal digital assistant that is connected to the data processing system via a network connection.

The customer may also make payment by swiping a magnetic strip on a card using any known or available radio frequency identification RFID enabled payment device. The transactional device may also be a portable device such as a laptop computer palm device or any other portable device specially configured for such in aisle checkout service whether integral with container or separately operable. In this example the transactional device connects to the data processing system via a network connection to complete the purchase transaction at check out time.

Checkout may be performed in aisle or at the end of the shopping trip whether from any point or from a specified point of transaction. The customer may also make payment by swiping a magnetic strip on a card using a radio frequency identification RFID enabled payment device with the transactional device using any biometric type of payment tender via biometric device and or biometric device known in the art and or via any other known or available method for making a payment or concluding a transaction.

As noted above checkout transactional devices may be stationary shared devices or portable or mobile devices offered to the customer from the store or may be devices brought to the store by the customer which are compatible with the data processing system and software residing on the data processing system.

Thus in this depicted example when a customer enters digital customer marketing environment but before the customer enters retail facility such as a retail store the customer is detected and identified by one or more detectors in detectors to generate external data. If the customer takes a shopping container before entering retail facility the shopping container is also identified. In some embodiments the customer may be identified through identification of the container.

The customer is tracked using image data and or other detection data captured by detectors as the customer enters retail facility . The customer is identified and tracked inside retail facility by one or more detectors inside the facility such as set of detectors . When the customer takes a shopping container such as container the analysis server uses data from set of detectors such as identification data from identification tags and to track container and items selected by the customer and placed in container .

As a result an item selected by the customer for example as the customer removes the item from its stationary position on a store display is identified. The selected item may be traced visually by a camera tracked by another type of detector in set of detectors and or using identification data from identification tags . The item is tracked until the customer places it in container to form a selected item.

Thus a selected item is identified when a customer removes an item from a store display such as a shelf display counter basket or hanger. In another embodiment the selected item is identified when the customer places the item in the customer s shopping basket shopping bag or shopping cart. The analysis server then selects one or more upsale items related to the selected items for marketing to the customer. In another embodiment the analysis server selects one or more cross sale items correlated to the selected item.

The analysis server stores a listing of selected items placed in the shopping container. The analysis server also stores a listing of upsale items and or correlated cross sale items that are marketed to the customer and a listing of actually purchased upsale items and or correlated cross sale items that are actually purchased.

In this example a single container and a single customer is described. However the aspects of the illustrative embodiments may also be used to track multiple containers and multiple customers simultaneously. In this case the analysis server will store a separate listing of selected items for each active customer. As noted above the listings may be stored in a database. The listing of items in a given container is displayed to a customer employee agent or other customer in response to a query. The listing may be displayed to a customer at any time either while actively shopping during check out or after the customer leaves retail facility .

Thus in one embodiment a customer entering retail facility is detected by one or more detectors in detectors . The customer may be identified by the one or more detectors. An analysis server in a data processing system associated with retail facility begins performing data mining on available static customer data such as but not limited to customer profile information and demographic information for use in generating customized marketing messages targeted to the customer.

In one embodiment the customer is presented with customized digital marketing messages on one or more display devices in display devices located externally to retail facility before the customer enters retail facility . When the customer enters retail facility the customer is typically offered provided or permitted to take shopping container for use during shopping. Container may contain a digital media display such as display device mounted on container and or customer may be offered a handheld digital media display device such as a display device in display devices . In the alternative the customer may be encouraged to use strategically placed kiosks running digital media marketing messages throughout retail facility . Display device and or may include a verification device for verifying an identity of the customer.

For example display device may include a radio frequency identification tag reader for reading a radio frequency identification tag a smart card reader for reading a smart card or a card reader for reading a specialized store loyalty or frequent customer card. Once the customer has been verified the data processing system retrieves past purchase history total potential wallet share shopper segmentation information customer profile data granular demographic data for the customer and or any other available customer data elements using known or available data retrieval and or data mining techniques. These customer data elements are analyzed using at least one data model to determine appropriate digital media content to be pushed on demand throughout the store to customers viewing display devices and or display device .

The customer is provided with incentives to use display devices and or display device to obtain marketing incentives promotional offers and discounts for upsale items and or cross sale items correlated to one or more selected items. When the customer has finished shopping the customer may be provided with a list of savings or tiered accounting of savings over the regular price of purchased items if a display device had not been used to view and use customized digital marketing messages.

This process provides an intelligent guided selling methodology to optimize customer throughput in the store thereby maximizing or optimizing total retail content and or retail sales profit and or revenue for retail facility . It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the words optimize optimizating and related terms are terms of art that refer to improvements in speed and or efficiency of a computer implemented method or computer program and do not purport to indicate that a computer implemented method or computer program has achieved or is capable of achieving an optimal or perfectly speedy perfectly efficient state.

Next is a block diagram of a data processing system in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as server or client in in which computer usable code or instructions implementing the processes may be located for the illustrative embodiments.

In this example data is transmitted from data processing system to the retail facility over a network such as network in . In another embodiment data processing system is located on site at the retail facility.

In the depicted example data processing system employs a hub architecture including a north bridge and memory controller hub MCH and a south bridge and input output I O controller hub ICH . Processing unit main memory and graphics processor are coupled to north bridge and memory controller hub . Processing unit may contain one or more processors and even may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems. Graphics processor may be coupled to the MCH through an accelerated graphics port AGP for example.

In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter is coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub and audio adapter keyboard and mouse adapter modem read only memory ROM universal serial bus USB ports and other communications ports and PCI PCIe devices are coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus and hard disk drive HDD and CD ROM drive are coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus . PCI PCIe devices may include for example Ethernet adapters add in cards and PC cards for notebook computers. PCI uses a card bus controller while PCIe does not. ROM may be for example a flash binary input output system BIOS . Hard disk drive and CD ROM drive may use for example an integrated drive electronics IDE or serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface. A super I O SIO device may be coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub .

An operating system runs on processing unit and coordinates and provides control of various components within data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft and Windows are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both . An object oriented programming system such as the Java programming system may run in conjunction with the operating system and provides calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system . Java and all Java based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems Inc. in the United States other countries or both.

Instructions for the operating system the object oriented programming system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processing unit . The processes of the illustrative embodiments may be performed by processing unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as for example main memory read only memory or in one or more peripheral devices.

In some illustrative examples data processing system may be a personal digital assistant PDA which is generally configured with flash memory to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or customer generated data. A bus system may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus an I O bus and a PCI bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any type of communications fabric or architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the fabric or architecture. A communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. A memory may be for example main memory or a cache such as found in north bridge and memory controller hub . A processing unit may include one or more processors or CPUs.

With reference now to a diagram of a display device in the form of a personal digital assistant PDA is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Personal digital assistant includes a display screen for presenting textual and graphical information. Display screen may be a known display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD device. The display may be used to present a map or directions calendar information a telephone directory or an electronic mail message. In these examples display screen may receive customer input using an input device such as for example stylus .

Personal digital assistant may also include keypad speaker and antenna . Keypad may be used to receive customer input in addition to using display screen . Speaker provides a mechanism for audio output such as presentation of an audio file. Antenna provides a mechanism used in establishing a wireless communications link between personal digital assistant and a network such as network in . Personal digital assistant also preferably includes a graphical user interface that may be implemented by means of systems software residing in computer readable media in operation within personal digital assistant .

Turning now to a block diagram of a personal digital assistant display device is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Personal digital assistant is an example of a personal digital assistant such as personal digital assistant in in which code or instructions implementing the processes of the present invention for displaying customized digital marketing messages may be located. Personal digital assistant includes a bus to which processor and main memory are connected. Display adapter keypad adapter storage and audio adapter also are connected to bus . Cradle link provides a mechanism to connect personal digital assistant to a cradle used in synchronizing data in personal digital assistant with another data processing system. Further display adapter also includes a mechanism to receive customer input from a stylus when a touch screen display is employed.

An operating system runs on processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within personal digital assistant in . The operating system may be for example a commercially available operating system such as Windows CE which is available from Microsoft Corporation. Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as storage and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor .

The depicted examples in are not meant to imply architectural limitations. The hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash memory equivalent non volatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the illustrative embodiments may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

Referring now to a block diagram of a data processing system for analyzing biometric data for use in generating customized marketing messages that promote upsale and cross sale of items is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Data processing system is a data processing system such as data processing system in and or data processing system in . Analysis server may be a server such as server in or data processing system in . Analysis server includes set of data models for analyzing dynamic customer data elements and static customer data elements.

Set of data models is one or more data models created a priori or pre generated for use in analyzing biometric data and customer data objects for personalizing content of marketing messages presented to the customer. Set of data models includes one or more data models for identifying customer data objects and determining relationships between the customer data objects. The data models in set of data models are generated using at least one of a statistical method a data mining method a causal model a mathematical model a marketing model a behavioral model a psychological model a sociological model or a simulation model.

Profile data is data describing one or more customers. In this example profile data includes point of contact data profiled past data current actions data transactional history data certain click stream data granular demographics psychographic data customer provided registration data account data and or any other static customer data.

Point of contact data is data regarding a method or device used by a customer to interact with a data processing system associated with a retail facility and or receive customized marketing messages for display. The customer interacts with the data processing system using a computing device or display terminal having a user interface for inputting data and or receiving output. The device or terminal may be implemented as display device provided by the retail facility and or a device belonging to or provided by the customer.

If display device is a display device associated with the retail facility details and information regarding display device will be known to analysis server . However if display device is a display device belonging to the customer or brought to the retail facility by the customer analysis server may identify the type of display device using techniques such as interrogation commands cookies or any other known or equivalent technique. From the type of device other constraints may be determined such as display size resolution refresh rate color capability keyboard entry capability other entry capability such as pointer or mouse speech recognition and response language constraints and any other fingertip touch point constraints and assumptions about customer state of the display device. For example someone using a cellular phone may have a limited time window for making phone calls and be sensitive to location and local time of day whereas a casual home browser may have a greater luxury of time and faster connectivity.

An indication of a location for the point of contact may also be determined. For example global positioning system GPS coordinates of the customer may be determined if the customer device has such a capability whether by including a real time global positioning system receiver or by periodically storing global positioning system coordinates entered by some other method. Other location indications may also be determined such as post office address street or crossroad coordinates latitude longitude coordinates or any other location indicating system.

Analysis server may also determine the connectivity associated with the customer s point of contact. For example the customer may be connected to the merchant or supplier in any of a number ways such as a modem digital modem network wireless network Ethernet intranet or high speed lines including fiber optic lines. Each way of connection imposes constraints of speed latency and or mobility which can then also be determined.

The profiled past comprises data that may be used in whole or in part for individualization of customized marketing message . Global profile data may be retrieved from a file database data warehouse or any other data storage device. Multiple storage devices and software may also be used to store profile data . Some or all of the data may be retrieved from the point of contact device as well. The profiled past may comprise an imposed profile global profile individual profile and demographic profile. The profiles may be combined or layered to define the customer for specific promotions and marketing offers.

In the illustrative embodiments a global profile includes data on the customer s interests preferences and affiliations. The profiled past may also comprise retrieving purchased data. Various firms provide data for purchase which is grouped or keyed to presenting a lifestyle or life stage view of customers by block or group or some other baseline parameter. The purchased data presents a view of one or more customers based on aggregation of data points such as but not limited to geographic block age of head of household income level number of children education level ethnicity and purchasing patterns.

The profiled past may also include navigational data relating to the path the customer used to arrive at a web page which indicates where the customer came from or the path the customer followed to link to the merchant or supplier s web page. Transactional data of actions taken is data regarding a transaction. For example transaction data may include data regarding whether the transaction is a first time transaction or a repeat transaction and or how much the customer usually spends. Information on how much a customer generally spends during a given transaction may be referred to as basket share. Data voluntarily submitted by the customer in responding to questions or a survey may also be included in the profiled past.

Current actions also called a current and historical record are also included in profile data . Current actions is data defining customer behavior such as listings of the purchases made by the customer payments and returns made by the customer and or click stream data from a point of contact device of the customer. Click stream data is data regarding a customer s navigation of an online web page of the merchant or supplier. Click stream data may include page hits sequence of hits duration of page views response to advertisements transactions made and conversion rates. Conversion rate is the number of times the customer takes action divided by the number of times an opportunity is presented.

In this example profiled past data for a given customer is stored in analysis server . However in accordance with the illustrative embodiments profiled past data may also be stored in any local or remote data storage device including but not limited to a device such as storage area network in or read only memory ROM and or compact disk read only memory CD ROM in .

Granular demographics are a source of static customer data elements. Static customer data elements are data elements that do not tend to change in real time such as a customer s name date of birth and address. Granular demographics provides a detailed demographics profile for one or more customers. Granular demographics may include without limitation ethnicity block group lifestyle life stage income and education data. Granular demographics may be used as an additional layer of profile data associated with a customer.

Psychographic data refers to an attitude profile of the customer. Examples of attitude profiles include without limitation a trend buyer a time strapped person who prefers to purchase a complete outfit a cost conscious shopper a customer that prefers to buy in bulk or a professional buyer who prefers to mix and match individual items from various suppliers.

Dynamic data is data that includes dynamic customer data elements that are changing in real time. For example dynamic customer data elements could include without limitation the current contents of a customer s shopping basket the time of day the day of the week whether it is the customer s birthday or other holiday observed by the customer customer s responses to marketing messages and or items viewed by the customer customer location the customer s current shopping companions the speed or pace at which the customer is walking through the retail facility and or any other dynamically changing customer information. Dynamic data also includes external data grouping data customer identification data customer behavior data and or current events data.

Dynamic data is processed and or analyzed to generate customized marketing messages and or for utilization in selecting upsale and or cross sale items to be marketed to the customer. Processing dynamic data includes but is not limited to filtering dynamic data for relevant data elements combining dynamic data with other dynamic customer data elements comparing dynamic data to baseline or comparison models for external data and or formatting dynamic data for utilization and or analysis in one or more data models in set of data models . The processed dynamic data is analyzed and or further processed using one or more data models in set of data models .

Correlated items list is a list of one or more items that provides a different basic functionality than an item selected by the customer for purchase. The items in the list of correlated items are items that are different than selected item . Selected item is an identification of an item selected by a customer. An item is identified as selected item when a customer looks at an item reaches for an item touches an item picks up an item places the item in a shopping container such as container in places the item at a point of sale counter purchases the item indicates an interest in purchasing the item makes a query regarding the item requests information regarding the item asks the merchant or sales person questions regarding the item asks the merchant or sales person to see the item or otherwise signals an intention to purchase the item.

An item is identified as selected item by analyzing video images of a customer selecting the item analyzing radio frequency identification tag data captured by a radio frequency identification tag reader analyzing motion sensor data and or pressure sensor data from pressure sensors in contact with the item and or any other data associated with the customer the customer s movements and behavior and the location of the item being selected.

The items in the list of correlated items are items that are frequently purchased in conjunction with selected item . For example if a customer selects hot dog buns hot dogs are frequently purchased in conjunction with the hot dog buns by a significant percentage of customers.

Analysis server generates a list of correlated items by identifying a plurality of items purchased by a set of two or more customers. The plurality of items are identified using past purchasing histories for customers sales records customer profiles customer behavior data and or data describing items purchased by customers during a single shopping trip. Analysis server analyzes the plurality of items using a set of correlation techniques to identify items that are typically purchased in correlation with one or more other items providing a different basic functionality to form correlated items list .

List of correlated items is stored in data storage device . Data storage device is any type of data storage device such as storage in . Data storage device may be located locally to analysis server or remotely to analysis server . Data storage device may be implemented as a single data storage device or as multiple data storage devices.

Upsale items list is a list of items that provide the same basic functionality as one or more selected items. An upsale item may be a different size than a size of selected item a different brand than a brand of selected item a different price than a price of selected item or a different packaging than a packaging of selected item . Upsale items may also provide an additional feature or functionality than selected item . Upsale items produce a greater amount of profit or revenue than a sale of the selected item. In other words a sale of at least one upsale item produces a greater amount of revenue or a greater amount of profit than a sale of selected item . In addition users of the system can choose to utilize the process to increase profit even if revenue remains the same or decreases. In another embodiment the process is used to increase both profit and revenue.

In this example analysis server also uses dynamic data to select a set of one or more upsale items from upsale items list . Dynamic data is used to select at least one upsale item in upsale items list that is most likely to be purchased by the customer to form the set of promoted upsale items.

Likewise analysis server also uses dynamic data to select a set of one or more cross sale items from correlated items list . Dynamic data is used to select at least one cross sale item in correlated items list that is most likely to be purchased by the customer to form a set of promoted cross sale items.

List of correlated items and or upsale items list may be pre generated or generated dynamically as the customer is shopping. In another example list of correlated items and or upsale items list are generated by a different analysis server than analysis server . In this example the different analysis server stores a list of correlated items and or upsale items list in data storage device for retrieval by analysis server .

Biometric data is data regarding a customer s physical responses. For example biometric data may include data regarding a customer s heart rate over a period of time a fingerprint a retinal pattern a voice stress measurement a measurement of a change in pupil dilation as compared to changes in the ambient light levels body temperature a change in skin temperature a change in body temperature a rate or amount of perspiration respiratory rate and or any other measurement of a customer s physical traits or physical responses.

Biometric data may be used to determine a customer s response to an item or marketing message being viewed by a customer at the time a change in a biometric reading takes place. For example if a customer s heart rate or pupil dilation changes while viewing a marketing message the change in the heart rate or pupil dilation may be attributed to the marketing message. Biometric data is used to identify selected item . For example if a customer s biometric responses change when the customer is looking at an item or holding an item analysis server identifies the item as selected item . Biometric data is also used to generate customized marketing messages. If a customer s biometric responses change while the customer is viewing a marketing message the customer s responses are used to modify the marketing messages presented to the user. If biometric data indicates a favorable response to marketing message elements those marketing message elements are used more frequently. If biometric data indicates a negative response to marketing message elements those marketing message elements are used less frequently and or those elements are not used or avoided in future marketing messages.

Biometric data such as without limitation fingerprint scans retinal scans and voice print analysis may also be used to dynamically identify a customer while the customer is outside the retail marketing facility as well as after the customer has entered or is inside the retail marketing facility. For example a fingerprint scanner on a shopping container or a display device may be used to determine or verify a customer s identity.

Biometric data is gathered or captured by a set of biometric devices such as biometric device and in . The set of biometric devices includes one or more biometric devices located within a retail environment such as digital customer marketing environment in . The biometric devices in a set of biometric devices may be located inside a retail facility and or outside a retail facility. For example a biometric device may be located on a shopping cart that is temporarily located outside the retail facility. The shopping cart may be moved outside by a customer leaving the store. The shopping cart may also be found by a customer arriving at the retail facility. In this case the customer may select the shopping cart located outside the retail facility and take the cart inside the store as the customer enters the retail facility.

Content server is a server for storing modular marketing messages such as server in or data processing system in . Modular marketing messages are two or more self contained marketing message components that may be combined with one or more other modular marketing messages to form customized marketing message . Modular marketing messages can be quickly and dynamically assembled and disseminated to the customer in real time.

In this illustrative example modular marketing messages are pre generated preexisting marketing message units that are created prior to generating or analyzing dynamic data and or biometric data using one or more data models to generate a personalized marketing message for the customer. Although modular marketing messages are pre generated modular marketing messages may also include templates imbedded within modular marketing messages for adding personalized information such as a customer s name or address to the customized marketing message.

Derived marketing messages is a software component for determining which modular marketing messages in modular marketing messages should be combined or utilized to dynamically generate customized marketing message for the customer in real time. Derived marketing messages uses the output generated by analysis server as a result of analyzing dynamic data associated with a customer using one or more appropriate data models in set of data models to identify one or more modular marketing messages for the customer. The output generated by analysis server from analyzing dynamic data using appropriate data models in set of data models includes marketing message criteria for the customer. Derived marketing messages uses the marketing message criteria for the customer to select modular marketing messages for customized marketing message .

A marketing message is a personalized message that presents an incentive or offer regarding a product or item that is being marketed advertised promoted and or offered for sale. A customized marketing message by presented to a customer visually on a digital display device and or in an audio format via speakers or any other sound system and or marketing messages printed out on a paper medium by a printer. The customized marketing message may include textual content graphical content moving video content still images audio content and or any combination of textual graphical moving video still images and audio content.

In the illustrative embodiments presented herein the marketing messages are messages promoting sales of upsale and cross sale items. Customized marketing message is generated using personalized marketing message criteria which includes criteria for selecting one or more modular marketing messages for inclusion in customized marketing message . The personalized marketing message criteria may include one or more criterion. The personalized marketing message criteria may be generated in part a priori and in part dynamically in real time based on the dynamic data for the customer and or any available static customer data associated with the customer.

If an analysis of dynamic data indicates that the customer is shopping with a large dog the personal marketing message criteria may include criteria to indicate marketing of pet food and items for large dogs. Because people with large dogs often have large yards the personal marketing message criteria may also indicate that yard items such as yard fertilizer weed killer or insect repellant may should be marketed. The personal marketing message criteria may also indicate marketing elements designed to appeal to animal lovers and pet owners such as incorporating images of puppies images of dogs phrases such as man s best friend puppy love advice on pet care and dog health and or other pet friendly images phrases and elements to appeal to the customer s tastes and interests.

Derived marketing messages uses the personalized marketing message criteria output by one or more data models in set of data models to identify modular marketing messages to be combined together to form customized marketing message for the customer. For example a first modular marketing message may be a special on a more expensive brand of peanut butter. A second modular marketing message may be a discount on jelly when peanut butter is purchased. In response to marketing message criteria that indicates the customer frequently purchases cheaper brands of peanut butter the customer has children and the customer is currently in an aisle of the retail facility that includes jars of peanut butter derived marketing messages will select the first marketing message and the second marketing message based on the marketing message criteria for the customer.

Dynamic marketing message assembly is a software component for combining the one or more modular marketing messages selected by derived marketing messages to form customized marketing message . In the example above after derived marketing messages selects the first modular marketing message and the second modular marketing message based on the marketing message criteria dynamic marketing message assembly combines the first and second modular marketing messages to generate a customized marketing message offering the customer a discount on both the peanut butter and jelly if the customer purchases the more expensive brand of peanut butter. In this manner dynamic marketing message assembly provides assembly of customized marketing message based on output from the data models analyzing dynamic data and or biometric data associated with the customer.

Customized marketing message is a customized and unique marketing message for an upsale item and or a cross sale item associated with selected item . The marketing message is a one to one customized marketing message for a specific customer. Customized marketing message is generated using biometric data dynamic data and or static customer data elements such as the customer s demographics and psychographics to achieve this unique one to one marketing. Dynamic data may include without limitation grouping data customer identification data current events data and customer behavior data.

For example if modular marketing messages include marketing messages identified by numerals customized marketing message may be generated using marketing messages and . In this example modular marketing messages and are combined to create a customized marketing message that is generated for display to the customer rather than displaying the exact same marketing messages to all customers. Customized marketing message is displayed on display device .

Customized marketing message may include advertisements sales special offers incentives opportunities promotional offers rebate information and or rebate offers discounts and opportunities. An opportunity may be a take action opportunity such as asking the customer to make an immediate purchase select a particular item request a download provide information or take any other type of action. Customized marketing message may also include content or messages pushing advertisements and opportunities to effectively and appropriately drive the point of contact customer to some conclusion or reaction desired by the merchant.

Customized marketing message is formed in a dynamic closed loop manner in which the content delivery depends on dynamic data as well as other dynamic customer data elements and static customer data such as profile data and granular demographics . Therefore all interchanges with the customer may sense and gather data associated with customer behavior which is used to generate customized marketing message .

Display device is a multimedia display for presenting customized marketing messages to one or more customers. Display device is implemented in a device such as display devices and or in or display device .

Thus a merchant has a capability for interacting with the customer on a direct one to one level by sending customized marketing message to display device . Customized marketing message may be sent and displayed to the customer via a network. For example customized marketing message may be sent via a web site accessed as a unique uniform resource location URL address on the World Wide Web as well as any other networked connectivity or conventional interaction including but not limited to a telephone computer terminal cell phone or print media.

Display device may be a display device mounted on a shopping cart a shopping basket a shelf or compartment in a retail facility included in a handheld device carried by the customer or mounted on a wall in the retail facility. In response to displaying customized marketing message a customer can select to print the customized marketing message as a coupon and or as a paper or hard copy for later use. In another embodiment display device automatically prints customized marketing message for the customer rather than displaying customized marketing message on a display screen or in addition to displaying customized marketing message on the display screen.

In another embodiment display device provides an option for a customer to save customized marketing message in an electronic form for later use. For example the customer may save customized marketing message on a hand held display device on a flash memory a customer account in a data base associated with analysis server or any other data storage device. In this example when customized marketing message is displayed to the customer the customer is presented with a use offer now option and a save offer for later use option. If the customer chooses the save offer option the customer may save an electronic copy of customized marketing message and or print a paper copy of customized marketing message for later use.

Customized marketing message is generated and delivered to the customer in response to the customer choosing selected item . Customized marketing message prompts the customer to purchase an upsale item instead of selected item . In another embodiment customized marketing message prompts the customer to purchase one or more correlated cross sale items in addition to purchasing selected item .

In this example the set of display devices includes but is not limited to digital media display device kiosk personal digital assistant cellular telephone and or electronic sign . A set of display devices in accordance with the illustrative embodiments may include any combination of display devices and any number of each type of display device. For example a set of display devices may include without limitation six kiosks fifty personal digital assistants and no cellular telephones. In another example the set of display devices may include electronic signs and kiosks but no personal digital assistants or cellular telephones.

Digital media display device is a device for displaying content such as without limitation a monitor a plasma screen a liquid crystal display screen and or any other type of digital media display device.

Kiosk is a structure having one or more open sides such as a booth. The kiosk includes a computing device associated with a display screen located inside or in association with the structure. The computing device may include a user interface for a user to provide input to the computing device and or receive output. For example the user interface may include but is not limited to a graphical user interface GUI a menu driven interface a command line interface a touch screen a voice recognition system an alphanumeric keypad and or any other type of interface.

Personal digital assistant is a device such as but not limited to personal digital assistant in and or personal digital assistant in . Cellular telephone is any type of cellular telephone or wireless mobile telephone. Cellular telephone includes a display screen that is capable of displaying pictures graphics and or text. Additionally cellular telephone may also include an alphanumeric keypad joystick and or buttons for providing input to cellular telephone . The alphanumeric keypad joystick and or buttons may be used to initiate various functions in cellular telephone . These functions include for example activating a menu displaying a calendar receiving a call initiating a call displaying a customized marketing message saving a customized marketing message and or selecting a saved customized marketing message.

Electronic sign is an electronic messaging system such as without limitation an outdoor electronic light emitting diode LED display moving message boards variable message signs tickers electronic message centers video boards and or any other type of electronic signage.

A display device may be located externally to the retail facility to display marketing messages to the customer before the customer enters the retail facility. In another embodiment the customized marketing message is displayed to the customer on a display device inside the retail facility after the customer enters the retail facility and begins shopping.

Turning now to a block diagram of an identification tag reader for gathering data associated with one or more items is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Item is an item such as without limitation retail items in . Identification tag associated with item is a tag for providing information describing item to identification tag reader . Identification tag is a tag such as a tag in identification tags in . Identification tag may be a bar code a radio frequency identification tag a global positioning system tag and or any other type of tag.

Radio Frequency Identification tags include read only identification tags and read write identification tags. A read only identification tag is a tag that generates a signal in response to receiving an interrogate signal from an item identifier but the tag does not have a memory. A read write identification tag is a tag that responds to write signals by writing data to a memory within the identification tag. A read write tag can respond to interrogate signals by sending a stream of data encoded on a radio frequency carrier. The stream of data can be large enough to carry multiple identification codes. In this example identification tag is a radio frequency identification tag.

Identification tag reader is a device for retrieving information from identification tag such as but is not limited to a radio frequency identification tag reader or a bar code reader. A bar code reader is a device for reading a bar code such as a universal product code. Identification tag reader may be implemented as a tag reader such as identification tag reader in . In this example identification tag reader provides identification data item data and or location data to an analysis server such as analysis server in .

Identification data is data regarding the product name and or manufacturer name of item . Item data is information regarding item such as without limitation the regular price sale price product weight and or tare weight for item . Identification data is used to identify a selected item such as selected item in . Once the selected item has been identified one or more upsale items and or correlated cross sale items are identified for marketing to the customer.

Location data is data regarding a location of item within the retail facility and or outside the retail facility. For example if identification tag is a bar code the item associated with identification tag must be in close physical proximity to identification tag reader for a bar code scanner to read a bar code on item . Therefore location data is data regarding the location of identification tag reader currently reading identification tag . However if identification tag is a global positioning system tag a substantially exact or precise location of item may be obtained using global positioning system coordinates obtained from the global positioning system tag.

Identifier database is a database for storing any information that may be needed by identification tag reader to read identification tag . For example if identification tag is a radio frequency identification tag identification tag will provide a machine readable identification code in response to a query from identification tag reader . In this case identifier database stores description pairs that associate the machine readable codes produced by identification tags with human readable descriptors. For example a description pair for the machine readable identification code 10101010111111 associated with identification tag would be paired with a human readable item description of item such as orange juice. An item description is a human understandable description of an item. Human understandable descriptions are for example text audio graphic or other representations suited for display or audible output.

External marketing manager stores current news item competitor marketing data holidays and or events data and or any other current events or news data in data storage device as external marketing data . Data storage device may be implemented as any type of data storage device including without limitation a hard disk a database a main memory a flash memory a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM or any other data storage device.

In this example external marketing manager filters or processes external marketing data to form current events data . Filtering external marketing data may include selecting data items or data objects associated with marketing one or more items to a customer. A data item or data object associated with marketing one or more items is a data element that may influence a customer s decision to purchase a product. For example the occurrence of a sporting event may influence the sales of beer pizza and large screen televisions. A data element indicating the occurrence of a holiday such as Christmas may influence purchasing of toys wrapping paper candy canes and other seasonal items. A data element indicating that it is raining or will rain all week may influence purchases of umbrellas and rain coats. These data elements that may influence customer purchases and sales of items are selected to form current events data . Current events data is then sent to an analysis server such as analysis server in for use in generating customized marketing messages to a customer.

In this example external marketing manager filters external marketing data for relevant data elements to form current events data without intervention by a human user. In another embodiment a human user filters external marketing data manually to generate current events data .

The analysis server uses the current events data to identify an event of interest to the customer that occurs within a predetermined period of time. For example if a customer profile and dynamic data indicates that the customer is a football fan and current events data indicates that the super bowl is playing on the upcoming weekend the analysis server can identify items in a list of upsale items and items in a list of correlated items that are associated with the super bowl and football.

For example items associated with football and the super bowl might include without limitation big screen televisions beer pizza chips and dip. These items in the lists of upsale items and or list of correlated items that are related to the super bowl are then marketed in customized marketing messages to the customer to maximize purchases by the customer.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating a smart detection engine for generating dynamic data is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Smart detection system is a software architecture for analyzing detection data to form dynamic data . In this example the detection data is video images captured by a camera. However the detection data may also include without limitation pressure sensor data captured by a set of pressure sensors heat sensor data captured by a set of heat sensors motion sensor data captured by a set of motion sensors audio captured by an audio detection device such as a microphone or any other type of detection data described herein.

Audio video capture device is a device for capturing video images and or capturing audio. Audio video capture device may be but is not limited to a digital video camera a microphone a web camera or any other device for capturing sound and or video images.

Audio data is data associated with audio captured by audio video capture device such as human voices vehicle engine sounds dog barking horns and any other sounds. Audio data may be a sound file a media file or any other form of audio data. Audio video capture device captures audio associated with a set of one or more customers inside a retail facility and or outside a retail facility to form audio data .

Video data is image data captured by audio video capture device . Video data may be a moving video file a media file a still picture a set of still pictures or any other form of image data. Video data is video or images associated with a set of one or more customers inside a retail facility and or outside a retail facility.

For example video data may include images of a customer s face an image of a part or portion of a customer s car an image of a license plate on a customer s car and or one or more images showing a customer s behavior. An image showing a customer s behavior or appearance may show a customer wearing a long coat on a hot day a customer walking with two small children which may be the customer s children or grandchildren a customer moving in a hurried or leisurely manner or any other type of behavior or appearance attributes of a customer the customer s companions or the customer s vehicle.

Audio video capture device transmits audio data and video data to smart detection engine . Audio data and video data may be referred to as detection data. Smart detection engine is software for analyzing audio data and video data . In this example smart detection engine processes audio data and video data into data and metadata to form dynamic data . Processing the audio data and video data may include filtering audio data and video data for relevant data elements analyzing audio data and video data to form metadata describing or categorizing the contents of audio data and video data or combining audio data and video data with other audio data video data and data associated with a group of customers received from detectors such as detectors and set of detectors in .

Smart detection engine uses computer vision and pattern recognition technologies to analyze audio data and or video data . Smart detection engine includes license plate recognition technology which may be deployed in a parking lot or at the entrance to a retail facility where the license plate recognition technology catalogs a license plate of each of the arriving and departing vehicles in a parking lot associated with the retail facility.

Smart detection engine includes behavior analysis technology to detect and track moving objects and classify the objects into a number of predefined categories. As used herein an object may be a human customer an item a container a shopping cart or shopping basket or any other object inside or outside the retail facility. Behavior analysis technology could be deployed on various cameras overlooking a parking lot a perimeter or inside a facility.

Face detection recognition technology may be deployed in parking lots at entry ways and or throughout the retail facility to capture and recognize faces. Badge reader technology may be employed to read badges. Radar analytics technology may be employed to determine the presence of objects. Events from access control technologies can also be integrated into smart detection engine .

The events from all the above detection technologies are cross indexed into a single repository such as multi mode database. In such a repository a simple time range query across the modalities will extract license plate information vehicle appearance information badge information and face appearance information thus permitting an analyst to easily correlate these attributes.

Smart detection system may be implemented using any known or available software for performing voice analysis facial recognition license plate recognition and sound analysis. In this example smart detection system is implemented as IBM smart surveillance system S3 software.

The data gathered from the behavior analysis technology license plate recognition technology face detection recognition technology badge reader technology radar analytics technology and any other video audio data received from a camera or other video audio capture device is received by smart detection engine for processing into dynamic data . Dynamic data includes external data customer identification data grouping data and customer behavior data .

Display device is a multimedia display device for presenting or displaying customized digital marketing messages to one or more customers such as display devices in personal digital assistant in personal digital assistant in and or display device in . In this example display device is coupled to shopping container . Display device displays customized digital marketing messages received from a derived marketing messages device such as derived marketing messages in .

Biometric device is any type of known or available device for measuring a physiological response or trait associated with a customer. Biometric device is a biometric device such as without limitation biometric device in . Biometric device may be a biometric device for measuring a customer s heart rate over a given period of time a change in voice stress for the customer s voice a change in blood pressure and or a change in pupil dilation that does not correlate or correspond to a change in an ambient lighting level.

In this example biometric device is coupled to shopping container . Biometric device monitors biometric readings of a customer and detects changes in the biometric readings of the customer that exceeds a threshold change. In this example biometric device is a device for measuring a customer s heart rate over time. Biometric device obtains the customer s pulse rate by measuring the customer s finger pulse.

In another embodiment biometric device may also identify a customer based on a fingerprint scan voiceprint analysis and or retinal scan. For example biometric device may dynamically identify the customer by scanning the customer s fingerprint and or analyzing fingerprint data associated with the customer to determine the customer s identity. In one example biometric device may but is not required to connected to a remote data storage device storing data to retrieve customer fingerprint data for use in identifying a given customer using the customer s fingerprint. Biometric device may be connected to the remote data storage device via a wireless network connection such as network in .

In this example biometric device is coupled attached or imbedded in a handle of shopping container . However biometric device may be coupled attached or imbedded in or on any part or member of shopping container .

In another embodiment biometric device is coupled attached associated with or imbedded within display device . In this example display device may use biometric device to dynamically identifying the customer by scanning the customer s fingerprint and or analyzing data associated with the customer s fingerprint to determine the customer s identity.

Turning now to a block diagram illustrating a list of correlated items for promoting cross sales of related items is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Correlated items list is a list of selected items and correlated items that provide a different basic functionality than selected item . Correlated items list is a list such as correlated items list in .

Correlated items list is generated by analyzing items that are frequently purchased together by customers. For example if a customer purchases peanut butter it is likely that the customer will also purchase jelly and or bread. The correlation between products is not always a two way correlation. If a customer purchases cereal most of the time the customer will also purchase milk. However customers that select milk for purchase may not be significantly more likely to purchase cereal.

In some cases this correlation of different items that are purchased in conjunction is a two way correlation. For example if a customer selects spaghetti pasta it is very likely that the customer will also purchase spaghetti sauce. Likewise if a customer first selects spaghetti sauce there is a significant probability that the customer will also purchase spaghetti pasta.

In addition the correlation may be a correlation between a single selected item and two or more correlated items. For example if a customer selects pizza sauce there may be a high likelihood that the customer will also be interested in purchasing both pizza crust and pizza cheese.

The process identifies an item selected by a customer for purchase and then uses correlated items list to identify one or more correlated items that the customer is most likely to be interested in purchasing.

Thus the upsale item may include a combination of an upsale item providing a same basic functionality and a correlated item that provides a different basic functionality. In this case ice cream provides a different basic functionality than root beer but ice cream may be likely to be purchased by the customer in conjunction with root beer. Therefore a marketing message for the upsale item includes an offer discount or incentive for both the upsale item two liter root beer and the correlated cross sale item of ice cream.

The upsale item may be a different size or different number of items. For example a sixty count bottle of vitamins may be associated with an upsale item of one hundred count vitamins. The upsale item may also be a different brand than the selected item. If the customer selects brand X pizza the upsale item can be a different brand Y pizza .

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating a process for generating a customized marketing message for promoting cross sales of items related to an item selected by a customer is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The process in is implemented by a server such as analysis server in .

The process begins by identifying an item selected by a customer step . The process retrieves a list of correlated items related to the selected item step . The process selects a set of items in the list of correlated items using biometric data for the customer to form a set of promoted items step . In other words the process determines whether a customer reacts to marketing messages and or items offered for sale and selects items in the set of items based on the customer s reactions. The process then generates a customized marketing message for one or more correlated items in the set of promoted items step to encourage the customer to purchase the correlated items in addition to purchasing the selected item. The process terminates.

The process begins by identifying a plurality of items purchased by a set of one or more customers step . The process analyzes the plurality of items using data mining and or other correlation analysis techniques to identify correlated items step . A correlation analysis technique is any known analysis that compares items purchased together by customers identifies items that tend to be purchased in conjunction with one or more other items and or generates a rate or frequency with which individual items are purchased in conjunction with one or more other items.

The process stores the correlated items in a data storage device step to form a correlated items list. The process terminates.

Turning now to a flowchart illustrating a process for generating a customized marketing message for promoting upsales of items is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The process in is implemented by a server such as analysis server in .

The process begins by identifying an item selected by a customer step . The process retrieves a list of upsale items associated with the selected item step . The process selects a set of items in the list of upsale items using biometric data for the customer to form the set of promoted items step . The process then generates a customized marketing message for an item in the list of upsale items step with the process terminating thereafter.

Turning now to a flowchart illustrating a process for monitoring for a change in biometric readings associated with a customer is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The process may be implemented by a device for measuring physiological responses and or traits of a customer such as biometric device and in and or biometric device in .

The process begins by monitoring biometric readings of a customer obtained from a set of one or more biometric devices step . The process makes a determination as to whether a change in the biometric readings that exceeds a threshold change has been detected step . If a change exceeding the threshold is not detected the process terminates thereafter.

Returning to step if a change exceeding the threshold is detected the process makes a determination as to whether the customer was viewing an item a marketing message or some other identifiable person place or thing when the change in biometric readings occurred step . If the customer was not viewing an item a marketing message or some other identifiable person place or thing the process terminates thereafter.

Returning to step if the customer was viewing an item marketing message or something else identifiable the process associates the change in biometric reading with the item the marketing message or the identifiable person place or thing to form the biometric data step . The process transmits the biometric data to an analysis server and or stores the biometric data in a data storage device for later use in generating customized marketing messages in the future step with the process terminating thereafter.

The process begins by making a determination as to whether any dynamic data for the customer is available step . Dynamic data includes without limitation external data grouping data customer behavior data current events data and or customer identification data and or vehicle identification data. If dynamic data is available the process retrieves the dynamic data step . The process then retrieves biometric data for the customer step . The identification data includes vehicle identification data.

The process pre generates or creates in advance appropriate data models using at least one of a statistical method data mining method causal model mathematical model marketing model behavioral model psychographical model sociological model simulations modeling techniques and or any combination of models data mining statistical methods simulations and or modeling techniques step .

The process analyzes biometric data with any available dynamic data using one or more of the appropriate data models to identify a set of personalized marketing message criteria step . The set of personalized marketing message criteria may include one or more criterion for generating a personalized marketing message. The process also uses the biometric data and any available dynamic data to identify correlated items and or upsale items to form the set of promoted items .

The process dynamically builds a set of one or more customized marketing messages for at least one correlated item and or at least one upsale item using the personalized marketing message criteria step . The process transmits the set of customized marketing messages to a display device associated with the customer step for presentation of the marketing message to the customer with the process terminating thereafter.

Thus the illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program code for generating customized marketing messages to increase purchases by a customer. In one embodiment an item selected by the customer is identified to form a selected item. Biometric readings for the customer are received from a set of biometric devices associated with a retail facility to form the biometric data. The biometric data is data regarding a set of physiological responses of the customer. A set of items is selected from a list of items associated with the selected item using the biometric data for the customer to form a set of promoted items. A customized marketing message for the customer is generated using a set of personalized marketing message criteria for the customer. The customized marketing message comprises a marketing message for the set of promoted items.

The process permits merchants and retail stores to increase profit and revenue by increasing the effectiveness of marketing upsale items and correlated cross sale items to customers. The customized marketing message is customized to the customer and the customer s unique dynamically changing circumstances at the time the customized marketing message is presented to the customer. Thus if the customer is shopping with children the customized marketing messages will be adapted to take advantage of the fact that the customer may be interested in products for children. In addition the customized marketing messages can be generated using imagery phrases jingles and marketing elements that would appeal to a parent of small children.

If the biometric data and optionally any available dynamic data indicates the customer is in a hurry and shopping with children upsale and cross sale products for microwaveable meals targeted towards children are generated. Likewise shorter marketing messages are generated to take into account the fact that the customer appears to be rushed and possibly unwilling to give an extended amount of attention to a marketing message. In this manner profits and revenues are increased by improving marketing of upsale and cross sale items to customers.

Biometric data may be used to determine if a user is interested or disinterested in an item or advertisement based on changes in biometric data that exceed a threshold or baseline change. For example a change in heart rate or pupil dilation may indicate an interest or desire in a particular product. Also data such as voice stress may be used to determine if a customer is receptive to advertising at the current moment if the customer is stressed tired or relaxed. This data may be used to customize marketing messages in real time based on the customer s current mood and responses to the environment and changing stimuli presented to the customer to improve marketing effectiveness.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the different depicted embodiments illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of some possible implementations of apparatus methods and computer program products. In this regard each step in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified function or functions. In some alternative implementations the function or functions noted in the step may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example in some cases two steps shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Further a computer storage medium may contain or store a computer readable program code such that when the computer readable program code is executed on a computer the execution of this computer readable program code causes the computer to transmit another computer readable program code over a communications link. This communications link may use a medium that is for example without limitation physical or wireless.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

