---

title: System and method for text messaging of financial account data
abstract: A method, a system and a computer-readable medium for responding to a text message request are enclosed. A method, a system and a computer-readable medium for providing financial information to a customer via a text message are enclosed. A method, a system and a computer-readable medium for providing access to financial information via a text message are enclosed. A method, a system and a computer-readable medium for providing a text message to a customer are enclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08756129&OS=08756129&RS=08756129
owner: United Services Automobile Association
number: 08756129
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071011
---
This application is related by subject matter to the subject matter disclosed in the following commonly assigned applications the entirety of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 870 938 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 871 036 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 871 058 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 871 088 each filed on Oct. 11 2007 and each entitled System and Method for Text Messaging of Financial Account Data. 

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document may contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply to this document Copyright 2007.

This application is drawn to a method a system and a computer readable medium geared toward text messaging communications in the financial industry.

Text messaging has become more commonplace among cell phone users over time. It is a way for users to communicate quickly with one another and to keep the conversation private even in a busy place which is not always possible through an ordinary cell phone communication. Text messaging is more common among younger generations such as the 12 24 year old age group. Users in this age range oftentimes communicate more by text message than they do ordinary cell phone communications.

In an effort to appeal to this age group but more specifically to the 18 24 year old sector of this age group commonly called flow throughs who are young adults who continue to be supported by their parents financially businesses should be able to communicate with these customers through the use of text messaging because this is how this group communicates.

Not only does text messaging appeal to the younger audience but it also is convenient to other segments of the population particularly to professional people or people always traveling heavy cell phone users and to those who are electronics lovers.

However there is limited use of text messaging to mobile devices other than personal communications. Some cellular providers can send limited account information to a requesting mobile device but advanced information or functionality is typically not available to a mobile device via text messaging.

Offering text messaging as a method of communication will translate in the customers eyes as being more progressive than other financial institutions as being more customer service oriented and as being more accessible to the customer.

In a first embodiment illustrated by a financial institution receives a text message from the customer . The financial institution then validates the customer by looking at the member identification number or his on line number. After validating the customer s identity the system then determines what information is being requested in the text message . Requested information may include an account balance or the date that the last check has cleared a checking account. Next the information is retrieved and the financial institution responds to the text message by sending the requested information to the customer . All of this is done automatically by the financial institution therefore there is no need for the financial institution to staff personnel to respond to the text messages.

In a second embodiment illustrated by the financial institution is using a third party to receive the text message and to respond to the text message. At step the third party receives a text message that the customer intends for the financial institution. The third party validates or verifies the customer at step then determines the request being made by the customer . The third party then forwards the customer s request to the financial institution so that it may be processed. After the financial institution retrieves the information requested by the customer the third party receives a response from the financial institution . This response is then forwarded to the customer in a text message .

In each of the aforementioned embodiments the customer may text message a code that is used to identify the financial institution being contacted plus a customer identification number either a member identification code or an on line identification code to identify the person making the request plus a question code identifying the information being requested i.e. a code for a checking account balance. The identifier codes financial institution identifier customer identification number and question code may be words or numbers and in combination may have the following forms 1 company id 9999999 auto 2 company id 9999999 123 123 means auto or 3 company id 9999999 1 1 which means auto . Each of the three combinations may be used to symbolize a text message requesting when the customer s next automobile payment is due. Text messaging communications between the customer and the financial institution is very feasible because not everyone has a computer due to the expense or due to a lack of comfort with the apparatus but because more customers are likely have a cell phone than they do a land line telephone

In one embodiment if the customer sends the financial institution a text message including the financial institution identifier plus a customer identification code but does not include a question code because he does not know it the customer will receive a text message in return from the financial institution with a list of question codes. The customer may download the question codes to his cell phone for future reference. In an alternative embodiment instead of the customer sending a message consisting of the combination of a financial institution identifier a customer identification number and a question code the customer may send a text message consisting of a general telephone number to the financial institution. The financial institution will then send an automatic response that includes a list of telephone numbers each containing a question code representing different features i.e. auto loan balance that the customer may text message to the financial institution directly requesting the information desired. The list of telephone numbers may be downloaded to the customer s cell phone for future reference.

The different types of accounts that the customer may inquire about via text message include but are not limited to banking insurance and investment. Banking account inquiries may include checking account balance last check cleared savings account balance credit card balance credit card bill due next mortgage payment due and next car payment due. Insurance account inquiries may include when the next automobile insurance payment is due when the next homeowners insurance payment is due when the next renters insurance payment is due the last rate increase or decrease when the next life insurance policy payment is due and what the status is of a claim pending or approved . Investment account inquiries may include brokerage account balance current individual retirement account IRA balance at end of day and the price of a certain stock for that day. Additionally the customer may trade stocks over text messaging buy sell .

In addition to text messaging the financial institution to inquire about account information the customer may text message the financial institution to document attendance at financial institution promotional events or to participate in financial institution contests or promotions.

Aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with this subject matter include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable customer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Referring to shown therein is a block diagram representing an exemplary computing device suitable for use in conjunction with implementing the systems and methods described above. For example the computer executable instructions that carry out the processes and methods described herein may reside and or be executed in such a computing environment as shown in . The computing system environment is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the presently disclosed subject matter. Neither should the computing environment be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment .

An exemplary system for implementing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a graphical processing unit GPU a video memory a graphics interface a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through an non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a PC a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

It should be understood that the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the presently disclosed subject matter or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the presently disclosed subject matter. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an application programming interface API reusable controls or the like. Such programs are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary embodiments may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the said subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be affected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers handheld devices supercomputers or computers integrated into other systems.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture. Instead the presently disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

Referring next to shown therein is an exemplary networked computing environment in which many computerized processes may be implemented to perform the processes described above. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that networks can connect any computer or other client or server device or in a distributed computing environment. In this regard any computer system or environment having any number of processing memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring simultaneously is considered suitable for use in connection with the systems and methods provided.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate the processes described herein.

This network may itself comprise other computing entities that provide services to the system of and may itself represent multiple interconnected networks. In accordance with an aspect of the presently disclosed subject matter each entity and may contain discrete functional program modules that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware to request services of one or more of the other entities and .

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device . Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any such infrastructures whether coupled to the Internet or not may be used in conjunction with the systems and methods provided.

A network infrastructure may enable a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. In computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of any entity and can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances.

A server is typically though not necessarily a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

In light of the diverse computing environments that may be built according to the general framework provided in and the further diversification that can occur in computing in a network environment such as that of the systems and methods provided herein cannot be construed as limited in any way to a particular computing architecture or operating system. Instead the presently disclosed subject matter should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described in connection with various computing devices the underlying concepts may be applied to any computing device or system. Thus the methods and systems of the present invention may be applied to a variety of applications and devices. While exemplary names and examples are chosen herein as representative of various choices these names and examples are not intended to be limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are numerous ways of providing hardware and software implementations that achieves the same similar or equivalent systems and methods achieved by the invention.

As is apparent from the above all or portions of the various systems methods and aspects of the present invention may be embodied in hardware software or a combination of both.

It is noted that the foregoing examples have been provided merely for the purpose of explanation and are in no way to be construed as limiting of the present invention. While the invention has been described with reference to various embodiments it is understood that the words which have been used herein are words of description and illustration rather than words of limitation. Further although the invention has been described herein with reference to particular means materials and embodiments the invention is not intended to be limited to the particulars disclosed herein rather the invention extends to all functionally equivalent structures methods and uses such as are within the scope of the appended claims.

