---

title: Laser material processing system
abstract: A laser material processing system and method are provided. A further aspect of the present invention employs a laser for micromachining. In another aspect of the present invention, the system uses a hollow waveguide. In another aspect of the present invention, a laser beam pulse is given broad bandwidth for workpiece modification.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09018562&OS=09018562&RS=09018562
owner: Board of Trustees of Michigan State University
number: 09018562
owner_city: East Lansing
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070409
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DE FG02 01ER15143 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This application is a 371 U.S. National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2007 008878 filed Apr. 9 2007. This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 790 695 filed Apr. 10 2006. The disclosures of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to a material processing system and more particularly to micromachining with a laser.

It is known to employ femtosecond lasers for micromachining. The use of these ultrafast lasers has significantly improved the machining efficiency by quickly removing the workpiece material due to the instantaneous increase of the material temperature into a plasma regime. Furthermore ionization of the material reduces splatter and debris during operation. An exemplary conventional device using a 50 200 femtosecond laser for micromachining is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 979 798 entitled Laser System and Method for Material Processing with Ultra Fast Lasers which issued to Gu et al. on Dec. 27 2005 and is incorporated by reference herein. It is noteworthy however that a leading publication P. Bado et al. Clark MXR Inc. version 2.3 chapter 14 2001 discusses that there are Shortcomings of Femtosecond Lasers for conventional machining because the rate of removal of material is dependent on average power thruput is low. The technology that makes these ultrafast laser pulses does not produce high average power. Additionally the technology is VERY expensive . . . . 

Furthermore conventional nanosecond laser induced breakdown spectroscopy suffers some limitations due to inefficient coupling of the laser pulse energy into a sample. The laser creates a plasma which couples with the bulk electron phonon coupling and supplies the energy for melting followed by evaporation and excitation of the gas phase atoms. The inefficient coupling requires high energies per pulse typically in the 10 100 mJ pulse range and leaves a scar caused by melting.

In accordance with the present invention a laser material processing system and method are provided. A further aspect of the present invention employs a laser for micromachining. In another aspect of the present invention the system uses a hollow waveguide. In yet another aspect of the present invention a laser beam pulse is given broad bandwidth for workpiece modification. A further aspect of the present invention allows a single laser beam to simultaneously operate in multiple machining workstations and or to machine multiple holes in the same workpiece. Additionally a system includes a laser pulse shaper and compensation device and control system with another aspect of the present invention. In a further aspect of the present invention a system employs Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan to improve laser pulse performance. A method of operating a laser for micromachining is also provided.

The present invention is advantageous over conventional constructions since the equipment or the processing throughput used in the system of the present invention is significantly less expensive than traditional equipment. Furthermore multiple workstations can be simultaneously powered by a single laser thereby reducing the laser expense per workpiece. The novel waveguide of the present invention system also beneficially increases ps or fs pulse bandwidth so a less expensive longer pulse lasers can be employed while improving micromachining efficiency. For another exemplary advantage an inexpensive picosecond laser of the present invention directly pumped by a flash lamp is employed in some variations instead of considerably more expensive conventional femtosecond lasers pumped by green laser sources nevertheless the present invention system provides the functional advantages of femtosecond ablation of the workpiece in part due to enhancing the laser pulse bandwidth instead of reducing the pulse duration. Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan and binary pulse shaping are further beneficial in accurately and inexpensively controlling ps or fs laser pulses for micromachining. The present invention advantageously uses laser induced breakdown spectroscopy with shaped pulses and or MIIPS optimization and with or without chirped pulses for feedback and closed loop control of micromachining the LIBS signal can provide an atomic signature of each workpiece layer when stacked so as to provide sensed feedback when each layer is completely penetrated whereby the controller automatically varies the process accordingly. Additional advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description and appended claims taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A first preferred embodiment of a laser material processing system of the present invention is generally shown in . System includes a femtosecond laser a pulse shaping and optimization system a waveguide an objective a moveable table or workpiece support and a workpiece inside a housing or cabinet with an openable door . Table is automatically moveable in at least X and Y directions and optionally in an additional Z and or rotational direction by linear slides and connected electric motors controlled by a programmable microprocessor based computer controller . The present invention system is used for micromachining the workpiece including drilling holes cutting slots polishing and the like.

Referring to pulse shaping and optimization system includes an upstream grating an upstream concave mirror a spatial light modulator a downstream concave mirror a downstream grating a detection device and personal computer . More specifically detection device is a spectrometer. Bursts or pulses of a laser beam are emitted from laser through the optics and as well as through the spatial light modulator for detection and sensing by spectrometer for further evaluation analysis comparison and subsequent control by computer controller . The laser is preferably either a a 150 femtosecond laser which can be obtained from Clark MXR model CPA 2000 b a 500 femtosecond Ytterbium tungstate Yb KGW laser which can be obtained from Spectra Physics as the Eclipse model c a 110 femtosecond laser which can be obtained from Coherent as the Libra model d the Coherent Legend USP Elite system which produces a 3.3 mJ pulse 26 fs in duration or e an IMRA microJewel FCPA D 400 system using a Yb Fiber amplifier. The heart of pulse shaper is automatically moveable flat mirrors or a programmable spatial light modulator hereinafter SLM that is placed at the Fourier plane. For the applications envisioned herein the mask must be capable of shifting the phase of individual frequencies. For alternate pulse shapers a different electronically programmable mask that is capable of controlling phase can be employed such as a liquid crystal display hereinafter LCD an acousto optic modulator hereinafter AOM a deformable mirror and a permanently deformed mirror.

The phase and amplitude masks of the pulse shaper are controlled by the controller wherein the laser pulse shape takes a dynamic role. The microprocessor within controller will then control laser receive an essentially real time feedback input signal from spectrometer and then perform calculations comparisons and evaluations and possibly automatic variation of subsequent pulse shapes. Alternately these automated steps can be substituted with manual user calculations and decisions if desired based on computer outputs.

Preferably the phase between photons of different frequencies takes only two values preferably 0 or preferably to maximize or minimize a given pathway. Any two values whose difference is work equivalently well. The method is defined as binary phase shaping hereinafter BPS . BPS is used to solve the problem of selective multiphoton excitation with ultrashort laser pulses. The spectral phase of the pulse is tailored using a computer controlled pulse shaper. The spectral phase of each pulse is corrected using a Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan hereinafter MIIPS method which compensates phase distortions to obtain transform limited hereinafter TL pulses. The binary phase is introduced as an addition to the compensation phase. The shaped laser pulses with energy 0.5 nJ per pulse and 87 MHz repetition rate are focused mildly to a spot size of 100 microns in diameter on a 20 micron thin beta barium borate BBO type I SHG crystal. The frequency doubled light is collected with an optical fiber and dispersed on a compact spectrometer preferably obtainable from Ocean Optics.

A preferred MIIPS process for micromachining includes 1 surface second harmonic emission from the substrate being machined is collected by the spectrometer and its dependence on a number of calibrated phases is used by the programmable computer controller to measure the phase distortions on the pulse 2 the distortions are then automatically removed by the pulse shaper pursuant to determinations and control of the controller and thereafter 3 the pulse shaper automatically introduces a new phase that optimizes the machining process pursuant to determinations and control of the controller. In this MIIPS process the SHG is obtained from the surface of the workpiece substrate itself such that a SHG crystal is preferably no longer needed although use of a SHG crystal still falls within the scope of the present invention albeit in a less desired construction . Also note that in some cases a spectrometer may not be needed for MIIPS.

Multiphoton Intrapulse Interference Phase Scan is capable of both pulse characterization and compensation of subsequent pulses. Within minutes the pulses are characterized and compensated to yield transform limited TL or user specified shaped pulses at the substrate being machined. Once the MIIPS system has characterized the pulse and retrieved the phase distortions inherent to the pulses it can use that information to drive the SLM such that it compensates for the distortions. The first step in compensation is to take the phase determined from the first scan and program it into the SLM with a negative sign so that it subtracts the distortions. The system carries out a new phase scan to determine the remaining spectral phase modulation usually about 10 of the original . Typically three such iterations will yield transform limited pulses. Because the laser is not focused in the pulse shaper the method can be used with pulses that are relatively high in energy.

The version of MIIPS illustrated in uses a thin SHG crystal spectrometer a dispersing prism or grating a collimating lens spatial light modulator and the femtosecond laser . System further has a redirecting mirror or beam splitter and two quartz cylindrical lenses 200 mm focal length the upstream one for focusing and the downstream one for collimating . The spatial light modulator has two 128 LCD elements which can be obtained from CRI Inc. as model number SLM 256 . In a variation self ultrafast switching can be employed based on pulse phase modulation in the pulse shaper with the thin SHG crystal causing multiphoton intrapulse interference and using dispersive optics and a CCD camera detector. The simplicity and accuracy of this method make it practical for the evaluation of laser pulses close to transform limited and for the evaluation of phase distortion from optical elements.

Another variation of MIIPS used in the present invention system enhances the ultra fast laser output by placement of a MIIPS box or unit upstream of an amplifier s output. For example a separate MIIPS unit is placed directly between an ultra short femtosecond oscillator and an ultra short amplifier. The present invention accurately measures output phase distortions using the MIIPS method which then employs the programmable computer software to correct the distortions at the pulse shaper in the MIIPS box or by directly moving optics such as an amplifier s compressor and or stretcher gratings. Furthermore the output is optimized and detected at the downstream output side of the amplifier or alternately at a more distant downstream location such as at the specimen or workpiece using second harmonic emission and detection with wireless communication and the computer controller. The upstream placement of the MIIPS unit is ideally suited for use with the Legend USP brand laser which can be obtained from Coherent Inc. An electronically integrated system interface includes a MIIPS unit with motorized micrometer actuators that translate gratings and or mirrors to compensate for changes in the output wavelength of the laser. The actuators are automatically driven by energization signals from the computer controller in a real time closed loop manner based on comparisons of the detected signals from the spectrometer and desired value calculations. When the workpiece is observed through a microscope objective MIIPS can compensate for the GVD introduced by specific microscope objectives at the specific wavelength of emission of the tunable laser source. It is also envisioned that the MIIPS unit can be located downstream or after the waveguide and the MIIPS detection occurs after the microscope objective. Further details of MIIPS and binary pulse shaping can be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 177 940 filed on Jul. 8 2005 invented by M. Dantus et al. and entitled Control System and Apparatus for use with Ultra Fast Laser which is incorporated by reference herein.

Waveguide is generally of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 956 173 entitled Capillary Compressor which issued to Svelto et al. on Sep. 21 1999 and is incorporated by reference herein and N. Nisoli et al. Generation of high energy 10 fs pulses by a new pulse compression technique 68 20 at 2793 May 13 1996 . Waveguide includes a hollow heavy wall glass capillary tube which is elongated in a circular cylindrical shape and filled with an Argon gas to about 100 Torr. In contrast to expensive conventional hollow waveguides however the present invention waveguide employs glass caps which are fused directly onto each end of tube after a vacuum is drawn and tube is gas filled. The vacuum is drawn and gas subsequently filled through a T leg in one cap which is then plugged. The internal passageway within tube of waveguide is preferably smooth and straight from one end to the other. The caps and tube are preferably quartz or glass and an anti reflective coating is applied to the caps before fusing. An ultrasonic machine or the like is used to fuse the open section of each cap onto the corresponding end of tube without optically distorting the pulse path through either. Therefore the direct cap fusing to the tube creates a secure seal with minimal processing and components. Hollow waveguide operably broadens the bandwidth of the laser beam pulse preferably at least 20 nm and more preferably greater than 30 nm. The use of this large bandwidth is ideally suited for use with 100 500 fs pulses entering waveguide applied to metal micromachining and with 10 50 fs TL pulses for nonmetal materials such as glass polymeric and dielectric workpieces.

A second preferred embodiment laser material processing system is shown in . System is essentially like that described with regard to the first preferred embodiment except that a workpiece supporting table and a workpiece are submerged within a liquid solution in a holding tank . Solution is water or machining oil which is circulated past workpiece to remove debris by a pump filter and piping system not shown . Oil is ideally suited for index matching between the objective and workpiece. Solution beneficially provides a self focusing performance that is expected to achieve smaller micromachining hole sizes in the order of 500 nm or less due to the index of refraction of the solution. Pulse shaping and MIIPS are additionally used to compensate for pulse dispersion in solution .

Reference should now be made to . A third preferred embodiment laser material processing system employs two or more micromachining workstations and all coupled to a single micromachining laser which emits a set of shaped and compensated laser beam pulses . Each pulse is split into multiple subpulses and by one or more splitting optic members and associated with each workstation. The pulse shaping compensation waveguide sensing and controller components of any of the prior embodiments can be also used with the present exemplary embodiment. A focusing objective and or integrated lens array are employed to direct and focus the pulse upon each workpiece for each workstation. A movable table supports workpiece in each workstation. Additionally an optional shutter is provided for each workstation to block and prevent a subpulse from being emitted from objective for example if only two of the workpieces are to be machined in the four shown workstations. It is envisioned that up to ten different workstations can be simultaneously used from the single micromachining laser .

Referring to a fourth preferred embodiment laser material processing system has a laser pulse shaper and compensation device waveguide sensor and controller like any of the prior embodiments herein. However a telescope optic such as a concave mirror or negative lens disperses each laser beam pulse onto a positive collimating lens . The collimated pulse is directed to an integrated lens array preferably a two dimensional SLM phase mask such as the hexagonal array model from Meadowlark Optics Corp. or that sold by Isuzu Glass Corp. or X7500 6510M from Hamamatsu Corp. Fourier optimized masks in the two dimensional shaper optimize the outcome such that it can improve the resolution and make patterned holes such as a square or other polygonal shaped hole by way of example and not limitation. Lens array optic allows each laser beam pulse to create multiple holes or other complex patterns into a single corresponding workpiece . This advantageously allows the equipment of the present invention system to be considerably less expensive on an equipment per emitted bean machining hole basis than would otherwise be required while also significantly increasing workpiece processing throughput. The two dimensional SLM can be used to cause one or more focal spots on the substrate. These focal points need not be static. They can be moved by sending different signals to the SLM and thereby direct the machining process dynamically in one or more locations. It is noteworthy that the two dimensional shaper of this embodiment is for making patterns and to direct the laser beam pulse focus but not for use in MIIPS which is preferably performed with a separate one dimensional shaper.

Another preferred embodiment laser material processing system is shown in . A laser pulse shaping and compensating device waveguide sensor and controller are essentially the same as any of the prior embodiments. In this exemplary embodiment an objective includes an elongated centralized and tapered pin extending from a beam emitting end . Pin is electrically connected to an electrical circuit including a power supply . A high voltage meter amp meter is connected in circuit and circuit is also electrically connected in a removable manner either directly or indirectly to a conductive workpiece . A programmable controller is connected to and operably controls circuit . Pin is substantially aligned with a focal point of the laser beam pulse. Thus when electrical current is flowing through circuit to pin an electrical arc will span to workpiece adjacent the laser beam pulse. The electrical current associated with the arc will vary due to ionization caused by workpiece ablation. For example the electrical current is expected to be reduced when the laser beam pulse completely cuts through the workpiece. This voltage variation will be sensed by the meter and the associated meter signal will be transmitted to controller . The controller will then automatically determine the next processing step such as moving either the workpiece or objective varying a pulse shape or stopping pulse transmission. Moreover the laser pulse will also serve to direct and focus the arc discharge toward the desired machining hole thereby improving accuracy and assisting in the machining process.

Additional alternate variations to the preceding embodiments are also envisioned. For example the pulse shaper can be automatically switched between different phases amplitudes or polarizations having different indexes of refractions. An exemplary use is to create a grated undulated or stepped internal pattern on a hollow waveguide which could change the scattering pattern of light therethrough and could cause higher harmonic generation in an inexpensive manner. In another variation multiple objectives each having different characteristics can be rotated either manually or automatically on a turret or carousel. For example a first objective can be used to focus the micromachining pulse while a second objective thereafter aligned with the normal beam path can be used to view by way of display monitor in and detect the accuracy for desired machining path with a CCD camera or manually. A further alternate variation purges the workpiece area in the machining station with a flowing compressed Nitrogen or other gas fluid in order to prevent debris build up on the workpiece or objective. Moreover an alternate version employs a superluminescent laser diode directly providing the desired expanded bandwidth without a femtosecond laser for micromachining.

Another alternate embodiment employs a 200 500 fs ytterbium tungstenate laser i.e. a picosecond laser which is directly pumped by flashlamps instead of by a conventional fs green laser source. The bandwidth of this picosecond laser is increased by a hollow waveguide or otherwise pulse shaped and compensated with a MIIPS unit in order to inexpensively provide micromachining or surgical uses.

The effect of femtosecond laser induced breakdown spectroscopy hereinafter LIBS is hereinafter considered. LIBS is influenced by pulse duration bandwidth and phase shaping especially with regard to micromachining of metallic samples. Shorter pulses give a lower threshold. Moreover different phase functions are expected to produce sample dependent differences with phase dependence greater near the threshold. For example it is envisioned that when 30 fs pulses are stretched to 10 ps by linear chirp little or no effect should be measured on the LIBS signal seemingly contradicting the advantages reported for femtosecond pulses. Hence it is believed that the bandwidth of the laser pulses is inversely proportional to the LIBS threshold.

The ablation process in femtosecond LIBS is very different from conventional nanosecond LIBS. The electric field causes inner ionization of the atoms 1 5 fs followed by outer ionization within the pulse 35 fs . This highly unstable multi ionized system triggers a Coulomb explosion within 200 fs. Ablation is limited by the optical penetration depth at low fluences. Reduced thermal damage lower threshold fluences and less or no material deposition is attributed to the direct transition of material to the vapor or plasma. Only at very high fluences 150 mJ pulse is melting observed as evidenced by crater formation and microsecond emission. The higher efficiency of fs LIBS results in higher reliability making it an efficient method to deliver photons to a sample to produce a reproducible LIBS signal.

A regeneratively amplified Ti Sapphire laser and a MIIPS box pulse shaper are used to correct phase distortions resulting in transform limited TL pulses centered at 800 nm 35 fs 750 mJ pulse at 1 kHz . The laser beam is focused with a 100 mm lens and the focal spot diameter is 26 m as measured from single pulse holes on metal. Laser intensity is varied from 0 to 150 J per pulse and the signal is collected at a 45 angle with a fiber coupled high resolution miniature spectrometer HR4000 Ocean Optics and averaged one second. Laser power dependence is measured using a monochromator a photomultiplier and is averaged with a boxcar integrator. A time gate is used to avoid the prompt first 5 ns broadband plasma emission. The signal collected corresponds to the atomic emission with characteristic 30 60 ns decay time. Exemplary samples used for this study are 6061 aluminum copper and brass disks spun at 4800 rpm. Laser power dependence measurements are carried out by selecting spectral lines from the LIBS spectra Cu I at 521.820 nm Al I at 396.152 nm and Zn I at 481.053 nm in brass . For atomic lines a fast rise is followed by a slow decay characteristic to atomic emission 30 60 ns . Lack of melting can be confirmed by microscopic analysis of clean edged micromachined holes. The threshold values expected to be obtained with TL pulses are in the 3 5 J pulse levels and are very low compared to typical LIBS experiments carried out with 3 5 orders of magnitude higher energy per pulse. The threshold energy density is expected to be 0.6 for aluminum 0.5 for copper and 0.8 for brass all in J cm. Thus micromachining sub 0.5 mm features can be carried out with single nano Joule per pulse lasers.

Furthermore linear chirp enhances the yield of multiphoton initiated chemical reactions and fs LIBS emission. Measurements from 10 000 to 10 000 fscan be carried out precisely using the MIIPS box pulse shaper at 50 and 150 J pulse. It is expected that chirp will produce a 30 change in the overall LIBS signal for aluminum and a slightly smaller effect for copper. At much greater chirp values the signal should increase by as much as 40 compared to TL pulses. The signal should still be higher than for TL pulses with a chirp of 130 000 fsobtained by moving the compressor grating implying that 35 fs pulses with energy just above threshold produce the same amount of LIBS signal as a pulses that are 10.3 picoseconds long.

The dependence of femtosecond LIBS on sinusoidal phases inspired by their effect on multiphoton intrapulse interference MII and control of multiphoton processes on molecules proteins and nonlinear optical crystal is next considered. The measurements can be carried out by introducing phase functions in the frequency domain defined by 3 2 cos where is the bandwidth of the pulse 1 35 fs and determines the position of the mask with respect to the spectrum of the pulse. These measurements are obtained with pulse energies 3 5 times above the LIBS threshold. When the intensity is increased to 30 times the LIBS threshold the effect of the sinusoidal modulation decreases from 20 to less than 10 .

The effect of binary phase functions 10 bit resolution on Al and Cu is also explored. Binary phase functions are effective for achieving selective multiphoton excitation in condensed phase and enhancing selective fragmentation in molecular beam experiments. The different patterns in binary phase maps should indicate a fundamental difference in the coupling of the laser energy into the substrate. The pattern to be obtained for copper is expected to indicate TL pulses produce higher LIBS intensity while modulation of the pulse into sub pulses is best for aluminum.

TL pulses have very low thresholds for LIBS emission with femtosecond pulses. Positive chirp results in a greater efficiency compared to negative chirp using much more intense fs pulses. Stretching the pulse by a factor of 300 yields signals will be slightly higher than those observed for TL pulses despite the fact that the laser pulse energy is near threshold. This is in contrast with the expected signal from a two or three photon excitation process where the effect of stretching the pulse by such a factor would lead to a signal decrease of 5 or 7 orders of magnitude respectively. Therefore the LIBS process is limited by the timescale of electron phonon coupling and of atoms leaving the bulk. As the pulses are stretched there is a transition from the fs LIBS model in which the laser energy is confined to the ns LIBS model in which the energy couples to the bulk causing melting.

The relative insensitivity of LIBS to pulse duration would seem to contradict the better efficiencies and better micromachining characteristics for picosecond and femtosecond laser pulses. Thus the expected effect of bandwidth by introducing a set of slits in the compressor where the pulse is frequency dispersed with the fs LIBS threshold dependence at multiple bandwidths of the pulse using full width at half maximum is shown in this indicates that the greater the bandwidth the lower the threshold. In other words efficient LIBS on metallic surfaces is highly dependent on bandwidth however for micromachining purposes pulse durations below 1 ps are preferred to avoid melting and control depth. Although changes in the bandwidth cause changes in the pulse duration that pulse duration alone does not affect the LIBS threshold.

It is also noteworthy that when the phase function can be approximated by a positive chirp which yields a higher LIBS signal. When 0 the phase function can be approximated by a negative chirp which yields a lower LIBS signal. At 2 the phase function has within the FWHM of the pulse a linear dependence resulting in near TL excitation. The dependence of LIBS on sinusoidal phase modulation however is not as significant as that of multiphoton processes. Furthermore binary phase functions should provide clear differences between copper and aluminum by way of example. In copper TL pulses yield the highest LIBS signal but aluminum requires greater pulse modulation. This is most likely due to the aluminum oxide layer. Therefore LIBS efficiency improves with bandwidth well beyond what is available using a traditional picosecond laser. Moreover phase control of ultrashort broad bandwidth pulses will be valuable in laser machining and will improve reproducibility and selectivity in analytical LIBS applications especially when minimal disturbance of the substrate is required.

While various embodiments have been disclosed herein it should be appreciated that other modifications may be made that are covered by the system and methods of the present invention. For example alternate lasers workpieces including silicon wafers and biological specimens optics software and controllers can be employed as long as they function as described. Furthermore a CCD camera or other optical imaging device can be used ahead of or behind the pulse to sense the location of the prospective machining path or to check the machining quality which then in turn is usable in a closed loop real time manner to vary a machining characteristic such as pulse shape pulse duration or workpiece movement. The description of the invention is merely exemplary in nature and thus variations that do not depart from the gist of the invention are intended to be within the scope of the invention. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention.

