---

title: Requirement driven interoperability/compliance testing systems and methods
abstract: A system and method for requirement driven interoperability/compliance testing of Hardware and Software in a distributed environment. Three modules are configured as a default system: a test definition, a SUT definition and a test result. A series of tree elements are coupled to represent requirements to test case mapping. Test cases are executed and components in the system are assigned with test results while requirements coverage is computed. Auto-detection of additional parts and test cases enables validity checking of the requirement to test case tree and reports are generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07757121&OS=07757121&RS=07757121
owner: Cydone Solutions Inc.
number: 07757121
owner_city: Montreal, Québec
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20070423
---
This application claims priority under 35USC 119 e of U.S. provisional patent application 60 793 635 filed on Apr. 21 2006 the specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present application relates to methods for testing and evaluating whether systems or processes comply with established requirements or standards.

Products are always increasing in complexity and end users expect more features and functionalities from each subsequent versions and revisions of a specific product. It is not unusual for a design team to juggle with literally thousands of requirements during the course of a project such as for automotive or telecommunication systems.

Some of these requirements evolve during the product development cycle and modifications to the design occur to comply with these modified requirements. Problems are also found during the design and testing phase which also generate changes to the product itself. Feedback from the users is also incorporated into subsequent revisions of a product and through lab and field trials. Minute changes and customer specific modifications are often introduced to the first few batches of a product or prototypes of this product on an individual basis while the manufacturing process is still in tuning mode.

All these changes occur at various levels of the products and have diverse impacts on the performance and functionality thus they impact product testing. Changes include software changes electronic modifications parameter adjustments parts replacement component variations firmware modifications programmable logic clock synthesizers programming EEPROM updates manufacturing data dates product batch codes labeling and marking mechanical adjustments heat sinks sheet metal modifications fasteners cosmetics changes user documentation specifications and test plans etc.

Maintaining a validation status for these systems where each requirement can be verified with at least one or more test cases is a daunting task in this ever changing environment. Various tools and processes exist in the field of computer aided product development but the vast majority of these tools are targeted for pure software systems with the abstraction of the hardware subsystems. These tools usually consider each copy of the same revision of the software to be a functional clone equivalent and are usually not designed to track test configurations. Thus they are not optimized to provide good test repeatability in real life situations when the functionality or performance of the system as a whole is considered. Coverage report against changing specifications or a modified system is impacted as well.

In a project it is highly desirable to maintain a structured set of requirements and to aggregate various attributes to these requirements to track project progress and completion. When a structured set of requirements exist a complete test plan can be put together listing how each requirement is being verified with one or many test cases. Unfortunately most computer aided testing tools are currently centered around test case management where various strategies are used to record and playback test cases in the form of scripts or automated actions performed on a target system. These tools put more emphasis on attempts to parameterize the test cases in order to cover various corner cases with or without automatic parameter pairing and other reduction schemes but do not usually clearly map test cases to requirements in order to compute requirement coverage with tests.

Even though good top down architecture and design methodologies are well known a surprisingly wide spread technique has also found use in many projects where requirement verification has been forfeited often because of the added burden of the change requests to the requirements the design itself or the test cases. The technique involves using spreadsheets or check lists to track overall system performance with a sub set and often ad hoc based list of test cases. In this situation it is very difficult to perform effective requirement tracking to assess specification compliance or generate coverage reports for each prototype.

This description relates to the testing of machines or systems having a combination of Hardware and Software sub systems with related requirements. More specifically it relates to requirement driven testing of the systems taking into account real world constraints such as changing requirements evolutions in system design and system prototype variations.

The present application describes a system and method for requirement driven interoperability compliance testing of Hardware and Software in a distributed environment. Three modules are configured as a default system a test definition a SUT definition and a test result. A series of tree elements are coupled to represent requirements to test case mapping. Test cases are executed and components in the system are assigned with test results while requirements coverage is computed. Auto detection of additional parts and test cases enables validity checking of the requirement to test case tree and reports are generated.

According to an embodiment of the application there is provided an interoperability compliance test system for performing tests on a system under test SUT the test system comprising an integrity engine comprising a test definition engine for receiving test requirements for inserting test objects into a structured format for a test definition the test definition structured format comprising a test definition default object and for linking a test script to one of the test requirements an SUT definition engine for inserting SUT objects into a structured format for an SUT definition the SUT definition structured format comprising an SUT default object components of the SUT and a state for each of the components and a test result engine for inserting test result objects into a structured format for a test result definition the test result definition structured format comprising at least one of a test event a measurement and configuration wherein when a new object is to be inserted in one of the structured formats and the new object does not belong to any specific parent object it is inserted in one of the default parent objects thereby each one of the engines can be used independently and in any sequence to complete at least a part of an interoperability compliance test and a test harness for connection to the SUT and integrity engine the test harness for receiving the test script for using the test script to send stimuli to the SUT for capturing a resulting response from the SUT and for forwarding the resulting response to the test result engine.

According to an embodiment of the application there is provided an interoperability compliance test method performing tests on a system under test SUT the test method comprising receiving test requirements inserting test objects into a structured format for a test definition the test definition structured format comprising a test definition default object linking a test script to one of the test requirements inserting SUP objects into a structured format for an SUT definition the SUT definition structured format comprising an SUT default object components of the SUT and a state for each of the components inserting test result objects into a structured format for a test result definition the test result definition structured format comprising at least one of a test event a measurement and configuration wherein when inserting an new object in one of the structured formats and the new object does not belong to any specific parent object it is inserted in one of the default parent objects receiving the test script for using the test script to send stimuli to the SUT capturing a resulting response from the SUT and outputting the resulting response.

It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings like features are identified by like reference numerals.

Main Program is a module that comprises SUT Definition Engine Test Result Engine and Test Definition Engine which are specific components of Integrity Engine . Integrity Engine is used to operate on the links between all the objects in the system and is responsible to maintain referential integrity between the objects using Communication Channel to access Object Database which is used for storing object data. Object Database and Communication Channel are typically implemented using postgreSQL jointly with its complementary networked Application Programming Interface API that is very well known art in the field of computing science. Object Database and Communication Channel can also be implemented using any form of object persistency that are also well known including memory mapping linked chains or other tools of the trade.

Main Program and Integrity Engine may be implemented using a Symfony framework itself written in php and running from a lighttpd server. Main Program and Integrity Engine could as well be implemented using an Apache server or any web page server as is very common in the art.

Integrity Engine also has an access to History Database using standard Communication Channel . History Database acts as the revision control system by keeping track of all revisions of all elements transiting through Main Program . Example of such elements include products software test cases configurations measurements parts requirements annotations api xml transactions etc. History Database and Communication Channel may be implemented using subversion svn and associated networking protocols svn . History Database and Communication Channel is very well known by those skilled in the art and can be implemented using other revision control systems such as cvs or any sort of associated transport protocol such as svn ssh https or other.

Web Engine may be implemented using a Symfony framework itself written in php and running from a lighttpd server. Web Engine could as well be implemented using an Apache server or any web page server as is very common in the art.

API Engine may be a specific xml API that can be accessed as a web service running from for example a lighttpd server. API Engine responds to xml requests transported over the https protocol. API Engine could as well be implemented using other transport protocols such as the less secure but faster http protocol and could be running off of an Apache server as is well known in the field.

It will be understood that when referring to a lighttpd server an Apache server or any web page server for Main Program Integrity Engine Web Engine and API Engine many possible configurations for the server or servers is possible. For example each of Main Program Integrity Engine Web Engine and API Engine can be instantiated on a single or multiple servers or any grouping of Main Program Integrity Engine Web Engine and API Engine can be instantiated on a single or multiple servers.

Personal Computer is a typical personal computer running Linux Windows or any suitable operating system and accessing resources and functionality exported by Main Program through Communication Channel a typical https channel implemented as part of a regular web browser or from specific scripts or programs. Requests sent to Main Program are processed by Web Engine when in the form of web pages and from API Engine when in the form of specific xml data encapsulated over https requests. These interactions are meant to let an authenticated user of the system manipulate and update the test object data create test reports and use the management functions of Main Program .

Personal Computer is another personal computer running Linux Windows or another operating system and can concurrently with Personal Computer access Main Program resources and exchange test result data as part of any kind of remote testing activity. Communication Channel is typically used for xml transactions representing test results and SUT configuration data. Communication Channel is used to interface standard test apparatus to Main Program s xml API format.

Test Harness implements a typical test harness as found in the CPAN perl modules compatible with Test More and Test Harness. Test Harness is used to send stimuli on Communication Link to SUT and record an SUT response on Communication Link as part of a test case. SUT can be any combination of sub systems comprising either hardware or software components or both hardware or software components. SUT can be seen as a specific prototype or as a specific prototype with the addition of measuring devices such as but not limited to sensors multimeters protocol bridges industrial computers programmable logic interface circuits or other apparatus to generate stimuli or measure a system behavior or parameter.

In certain particular cases most notably to suit the nature of SUT Communication Link and Communication Link can be implemented with a manual intervention where a test case would be conducted by a person or a group of persons. In those cases the stimuli becomes a set of manual operations that are applied to SUT and the SUT response becomes the observation of SUT behavior as noted by the persons operating it. In addition a mix of automated and manual intervention can occur in any proportion during a test case or through a suite of test cases.

All the objects described in Test Definition Default Chain SUT Definition Default Chain and Test Result Default Chain share a common Generic Object Model . Generic Object Model is implemented using database object persistence and is manipulated in computer memory by the Integrity Engine . A set of general fields are common to all objects. The UUID is a unique identifier satisfying the definition of the Open Software Foundation and is known to be unique with a reasonable certainty within all computing platforms. The Code is used as a user mnemonic to facilitate the identification and manipulation of the object when presented in large groups. The Description is a generic text field that is available for the user. The State is a variable that is initialized with the value Construction at object creation time and is destroyed when the object is deleted from the database. A variable amount of Attributes n fields where n is an integer that goes from 0 to N is used for fields that are user customizable or are specific of a particular object. The field Parent is used to store the UUID of the parent object. Various other links might also be added as is well known in prior art for database table relationship design or linked list implementation all of which used mainly for various speed or space optimization.

The Type field in Generic Object Model is used to bless or instantiate the object into one of the possible types for each chain. In the Test Definition Default Chain the types of objects presented in example are Provenance Requirement Container Requirement Annotation and Test Case .

The objects are created in Construction state as depicted in State Diagram . The object lifecycle presented is typical of a multi user implementation. In an embodiment there are defined three working states Construction Linkable and Production . An object can be cycled through any of these states based on the user s rights and the current state of the object. When in Production state the object can be sent to Archive and Delete state and be archived in the History Database and then deleted from the Object Database . This specific arrangement of states is very flexible and can be tailored for specific purposes or specific processes. Standard user rights management and process interlocks are implemented to support specific process needs. An example of this is the hardcoding of a programmatic rule an if statement in the Integrity Engine such that only a specific user of the system can send objects from Production state to Archive and Delete state thus implementing a crude protection scheme that prevents deletion of the data in the system based on user rights.

Default Provenance object is an entity that issues a specification. Requirement Container object is a specification issued by a provenance. In the present description the provenance is used as a parent identifier with a name a description insertion date insertion user and similar fields. The Requirement Container object contains similar fields plus a pointer on an electronic copy of the associated document stored in the database for archiving and later retrieval. Default Requirement object is the default requirement for the system. Default Annotation object is the default annotation for the system and Default Test Case object is the default test case for the system.

Thus using the objects presented in Test Definition Default Chain it is possible to arrange them in complex Test Definition representations i.e. in a tree structure such as the example given in . Re using the Generic Object Model and building from the Test Definition Default Chain it is possible to attach any number of children to any object as is the case for Provenance object that is linked to ReqContainer SPEC1 object and ReqContainer SPEC2 object by virtue of having both object and ReqContainer SPEC1 object listing Provenance object s QUID in their parent s field. The Integrity Engine is used in conjunction with the Web Engine and the API engine to create modify delete and associate the objects in complex arrangements.

The no orphans rule is applied by Integrity Engine so that an object for which no parent is specified is automatically assigned to the nearest default parent for this object as is depicted for Test Case TC object and TestCase TC object that are linked to Annotation DEFAULT object . The nearest parent type is defined by looking up the parent s Type value of the default object having the same Type as the object for which the request is made. Thus arrangements follow the original layout order of the default chain.

Integrity Engine uses the field Parent in the object to ensure that each object possess one and only one parent whether it is the default parent of the proper type or a new object of the proper type.

The resulting arrangement shown in can easily accommodate all kinds of changes links can be reassigned new objects can be added modified or deleted etc. This arrangement is also very effective in copying or displacing sub trees in new insertion points such as for example when entire sets of requirements are modified and their revision number eventually changed or re assigned to a new specification when a legacy set of test cases are re utilized for a new set of annotations.

An example of the Test Definition Objects follows. All the UUID values used in tables 1 to 4 would follow the ISO IEC 11578 1996 definition and would have a 16 byte format. An example of a typical UUID is presented here 550e8400 e29b 41d4 a716 446655440001. In the tables 1 to 4 we present these UUIDs using a simplified template to help understanding the relationships between the tables. Fields that are blank are marked with EMPTY . The format is UUID  object name . In this example Provenance object could be defined with the fields as defined in Table 1.

In two other default chains according to an embodiment of the application are shown. SUT Definition Default Chain is used to model the SUT. Test Result Default Chain is used to model the test results.

Default Lab object is the default laboratory in which the experiment took place. The Description field of this object is used with other generic fields to identify lab characteristics when not specifically given in the testing. Default System object is the default system and can be used to record specific details of the system under test such as a name mnemonic for a chassis in the case of telecommunication apparatus. Default Component object is the default component that is assumed for all testing when none are given in the test results. Default Part object is the default part number associated with the default component. Default State object is the default state in which was the component. These default values are there to provide hooks for other objects and to progressively gather information from the testing that is performed.

Objects Default SyncJob Default TestRunResult Default TestCaseResult and Default EventResult are used to model the recording of test events generated by the execution of the test cases in the test harness. The test results are compiled by Test Harness and synchronized through API Engine using Communication Channel and Communication Channel . One synchronization operation is called a SyncJob and is modeled and recorded by the Default SyncJob object . The data exchange according the this embodiment is in xml format but could be done in any format that is suitable for the specific Test Harness used for Test Harness . Default TestRunResult object is a Test Run Result and models the consecutive execution of specific test cases in the same harness. Default TestCaseResult object is the Test Case Result and models all data that is returned by a test case including all Event Results all Measurements all State declaration all Configuration files uploaded all test Equipment used in the measurements.

Using the objects presented in SUT Definition Default Chain it is possible to arrange them in complex SUT Definition representations i.e. in a tree structure not shown in a Figure but similarly to the Test Definition representations hierarchy example given in .

Using the objects presented in Test Result Default Chain it is possible to arrange them in complex Test Result Definition representations i.e. in a tree structure not shown in a Figure but similarly to the Test Definition representations hierarchy example given in .

Web Engine displays the objects stored in Object Database using generic Graphviz primitives and provides useful filters to navigate through the data. Other graph traversal and drawing libraries could be used as is well known in the field. Specific searches involving default elements are used to verify the sanity of the database and permit a quick visual assessment of the data.

Links between Test Results and Test Definition trees not shown are performed by defining a file variable and an associated file MD5 checksum in TestCase object . These fields are used to match TestCase objects such as TestCase objects and with associated Test Case Results. Test Case Results are produced manually or automatically by a test script. The match is based on the value of the file field and the well known MD5 checksum for example is used to detect changes that would affect the revision of the test case pending to a change in the associated test script. Any detected change triggers the creation of a snapshot in the history database. In the current art and as is frequently used in perl modules under the t or testing directory the complete path to a test case is often used as a name up to the harness name itself or module in perl terminology . This creates a much larger namespace for test scripts and facilitates script re use from harness to harness. For example when a test script in a module called Harness1 is located on a disk drive and executed from home user1 Harness1 t test1.t the label Harness1 t test1.t would be used as a link so that all results coming from the execution of this script would linked to TestCase object if the file variable is set to Harness1 t test1.t . The MD5 checksum is computed on the contents of test1.t . This method of keeping all the pertinent Test Definition data as well as all the pertinent Test Case Result data loosely coupled enables to quickly re attach test cases to modified requirements and to easily detect any revision change and maintain the database integrity in real world project environments. Differential history snapshots as available from svn are fully leveraged in this solution to obtain any previous version of the test environment and all the legacy data.

Links between SUT Definition Default Chain type chains and Test Result Default Chain type chains are computed on test result insertion and when proper Measurements and State declarations are declared. The SUT Definition can thus be populated by explicit listing of the material or can be self discovered as the testing progresses. State values that are typically used for component identification are COMPONENT SERIAL COMPONENT MODEL and or COMPONENT ASSET NUMBER .

Integrity Engine also computes statistics on the Test Definition the SUT Definition and the Test Result data. This feature enables the generation of reports such as how many times TestCase object has been declared as PASSED in the last 30 days while using standard SQL requests on Object Database since all the test results for which the script name was the same as the one declared in can be extracted. A very large number of such requests can be imagined by any computer programmer skilled in the art of SQL request generation.

The use of the interoperability compliance test system shown in will now be described along with and . First a user defines a set of interoperability compliance Requirements according Test Definition Default Chain and using a web browser on computer to access the Web Engine . These Requirements are then detailed with specific annotations and associated to TestCases according to Test Definition Default Chain as presented in .

Alternatively the user may enter a set of interoperability compliance Requirements using API Engine in a known xml format. The set of interoperability compliance requirements may therefore be read and entered automatically.

Another or the same user or set of users concurrently assembles the Test Harness and the SUT and connects them using networking equipment to computer . To start the compatibility testing the user accesses Portable Computer and launches a test script. Test script s executed on computer provide a set of stimuli while recording the related SUT responses . An example of such a script may be written in perl with the Test More module form www.CPAN.org located on computer in home user1 simple test t ssh prompt check.t to perform an ssh login on the SUT and verify if the SUT answers with a prompt and the script terminates with a result file in for example an XML format. The PASS FAIL result of this simple test script is then exported to the API engine using an xml format through an https transaction and an xml tag comprising this information simple test t ssh prompt check.t .

The test result could be augmented with specific configuration data to improve test documentation and repeatability. Items such as the name of the user the date of start and the date of end of the execution a system name identifier sub system serial numbers sub system version numbers etc. could be added for storage by using the object format such as shown in Table 3 part II . The file field is used by Integrity Engine to establish the proper link with the Test Definition objects. In the case where no existing Test Case object would match the content of the file field the results are associated to the default test case .

Another or the same user logs into Portable Computer to access reports through the Web Engine where the test results are presented. Statistics of the ssh prompt check.t execution are presented in the associated Test Definition objects and back propagated from the Test Case up to an associate Provenance. Specific compliance can be assessed and specific test information are extracted from the database and presented to the user.

A specific feature of the invention is that these steps can be performed in different order to accommodate real life constraints. For example if the list of requirements or their complete description is not available at the time of the testing as is often the case with commercially available test suites for specific certifications all the test cases can nonetheless be executed their results collected and presented using the default requirement. At a later time a user can re map the collected test cases and associated results to specific requirements defined using the computer to access the Web Engine with a web browser through secure https connection .

A concrete example of the Test Definition Objects follows. All the UUID values used in tables 1 to 4 would follow the ISO IEC11578 1996 definition and would have a 16 byte format. An example of a typical UUID is presented here 550e8400 e29b 41d4 a716 446655440001. In the tables 1 to 4 we present these UUIDs using a simplified template to help understanding the relationships between the tables. Fields that are blank are marked with EMPTY . The format is UUID  object name . In this example Provenance object could be defined with the fields as defined in table 1.

Those skilled in the art may recognize other embodiments and or methods to provide such functionalities either through a central distribution of computer code to networked computers a computer program adapted for such an application and performing the application on computers or program codes broadcasted using a suitable carrier or saved in memory or another storing medium. The program codes are suitable or responsible when loaded on a computer for making the system perform functionalities described herein. All such alternatives are intended to be incorporated in the present document.

It will be noted that the above embodiments illustrate different characteristics according to embodiments of the instant application. Those skilled in the art will recognize that even if the embodiments of the present document describe these characteristics as part of different embodiments one could differently use or combine some of these characteristics without departing from the scope of the application as intended to be set. Furthermore embodiments may also present other characteristics and or variations with such characteristics falling within the scope of the application as set forth in the appended claims.

Furthermore while some of the appended figures illustrate the application as groups of discrete components it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the application may be embodied differently for instance through a combination of hardware and software components with some components being implemented by a given function or operation of a hardware or software system. The structure illustrated is thus provided for efficiency of teaching embodiments of the application.

Thereupon it is the intent through the present document to efficiently teach an invention through embodiments while the scope is solely intended to be limited by the appended claims.

