---

title: Route monetization
abstract: A user can be compensated for taking detours from a projected route. Commonly, the reason for the compensation is that the user will be subjected to advertising, the user will pass by an establishment she is likely to visit, or to ease traffic congestion. Analysis of an area takes place and monetization opportunities are determined based upon the results of the analysis. A route between at least about two locations can be altered such that the user is provided a reward, commonly in an optimized manner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08793066&OS=08793066&RS=08793066
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08793066
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 426 903 entitled COLLABORATIVE ROUTE PLANNING FOR GENERATING PERSONALIZED AND CONTEXT SENSITIVE ROUTING RECOMMENDATIONS filed on Jun. 27 2006 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 127 entitled FEDERATED ROUTE PRODUCTION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 139 entitled DESTINATION AUCTIONED THROUGH BUSINESS OF INTEREST .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 151 entitled GENERATIONAL INTELLIGENT NAVIGATION MANIPULATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 167 entitled SOCIAL NETWORK BASED ROUTES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 187 entitled ROUTE TRANSFER BETWEEN DEVICES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 188 entitled ADDITIONAL CONTENT BASED ON INTENDED TRAVEL DESTINATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 206 entitled AUTOMATIC SPLICES FOR TARGETED ADVERTISEMENTS .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 210 entitled PEDESTRIAN ROUTE PRODUCTION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 219 entitled ROUTE GENERATION BASED UPON ACTIVITY CRITERIA .

The subject specification relates generally to traffic routing and in particular to providing a route with monetary optimization.

Advertisements are an important part of popular culture phrases utilized in advertisement have become integrated in the vernacular and numerous organizations track reactions to advertisements. Various mediums can be employed to convey a company message including newspapers television radio billboards etc. Large amounts of money are dedicated to advisement departments with a goal of achieving increased profits.

Companies can use a vast array of techniques to increase profits ranging from targeted advertising to personal endorsements. In an illustrative example if a company is attempting to market a product to teenagers then it is unlikely commercials for the product will air on television radio during school hours since relatively few students will be subjected to the advertisement. However the company is relatively likely to purchase advertising during a commercial break of a popular after school music program.

One manner used to increase profits is to amplify a number of patrons that enter the business. For instance a department store can offer a coupon that a potential customer will receive about ten percent off a purchase of about fifty or more dollars. While the business is offering items at a lower price there is a hope that the coupons will attract more individuals to enter the business. Moreover the coupons provide an incentive to customers to spend over a requisite amount commonly an amount that is greater than what an individual would have presumably spent even with the discount.

The following discloses a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to disclose some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is disclosed later.

Conventional route generation systems construct direction sets to take into account various constraints for avoiding roads that permit relatively high speeds evading areas under construction etc. Two goals permeate classical route production systems traveling between points in a fastest amount of time and or traveling between points in a shortest amount of distance. The systems focus on lessening impact of travel and ignore improving and highlighting benefits of travel.

The disclosed innovation produces a direction set that associates a reward with a direction subset. A user can be rewarded for taking an alternate route such that the user is subjected to advertising passes a location at a critical time etc. An analysis component identifies reward capabilities associated with a possible route. Based upon the identifications a production component can alter an original route and present both an original route and an altered route to a user. The user can generally select if she would like to take the original route or if she is to take the altered route and receive the reward.

In addition the disclosed innovation allows for multiple equivalent e.g. near equal routes to be produced. A selection is made for a route to be presented to a user based upon monetization opportunities of the route. For instance businesses can offer money for a user to take a route e.g. to be paid to a user to be paid to a host etc. and based upon money offered a route is selected.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification can be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It can be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to disclose concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

In an alternate embodiment multiple equivalent routes can be produced e.g. routes that have equal distance or estimated travel times routes with distance or estimated travel time within a tolerance of one another such as about five percent etc. . Different entities can offer money to a host of the system that a route be displayed that takes a user past a business of the entity. A route can be selected based upon offered money e.g. a highest amount offered and presented to a user commonly without the user knowing that a route was selected to optimize money for the host. Money can be a partial consideration in selection for instance a route can be selected based upon money offered to a host weighted against user interest in businesses located along a route.

As a user travels between different locations there is an opportunity to convey information to the user. The user can travel down a street with a number of different automobile dealerships due to direction of a monetized direction set the user can view a sign of a dealership that includes a trademark new models available for sale etc. This enables a company to gain various benefits such as an increased likelihood the user will visit the dealership increasing brand recognition etc. and the company can be willing to pay for the benefits. In addition a user can enjoy the experience if the user has an interest in automobiles. The disclosed innovation can be configured to produce a route that provides a user and or a company with a high amount of reward.

Input is collected by an analysis component that identifies a reward capability e.g. opportunity to allow a financial transaction concerning a detour or lack thereof of travel between at least two locations. The analysis component can categorize various characteristics of route portions in a locality. Example characterization includes locating businesses determining contextual information e.g. it is dark outside and businesses could be difficult to see traffic patterns etc. The analysis component performs calculations to determine a route and or a route portion that could produce a relatively large financial transaction e.g. monetization capability .

According to one embodiment the analysis component collects details concerning a locality without an original route. For instance the analysis component can obtain a starting point an intended destination and contextual information concerning a city that holds the starting point and intended destination. The analysis component can construct at least about one direction set commonly between at least two or more locations. There can be various constraints in construction such as constraints discussed concerning conventional practice. However the analysis component can receive a route from an auxiliary location e.g. inputted by a user transferred from an outside generation component etc. as well as contextual information concerning the route and surrounding area.

Assessment of the route can be performed that establishes different opportunities for monetization. Internal logic can be used in distinguishing between various situations and estimating probability that monetization is possible in a particular situation. For instance a route can be detoured to take a user past a business district assessment of the district is made to determine entities that could would pay money to have the detour how much the entities would pay etc. Based upon the assessment the analysis component can make an identification of a monetization capability e.g. a check if businesses are willing to pay money is money offered worthwhile etc. 

Output of the analysis component can transfer to a production component that augments a direction set based on at least about one identification of the analysis component . The analysis component can produce an initial route as well as a location that the user should pass to gain a reward e.g. a fiscal incentive the route is changed by the production component to include a pass of the location. Augmentation of a direction set can include modifying an existing route or creating a new route. The analysis component or the production component can implement upon a vehicle a portable electronic device e.g. a cellular telephone a gaming system a desktop computer etc.

The following is an illustrative example of practice of the system . A user can desire to travel from her home to a downtown area where the home and downtown area are in adjacent cities. There can be production of a route from the home to the downtown area intended to take a minimal amount of time. Assessment of the route can allow for a determination of possible locations that can produce a monetization opportunity. For instance near the route there can be a shopping mall gasoline station and a restaurant. The analysis component identifies different monetization opportunities concerning the route such as contacting establishments near the route asking if the establishments will pay to have a route detoured. The shopping mall can offer that if the user takes an about two minute detour to pass by the shopping mall then the shopping mall is willing to pay a company who operates the system about one dollar and or to pay the user about one dollar. This information can be transferred to the production component where two routes are outputted the route originally generated and the route with the shopping mall detour.

While portions of the subject specification disclose modifying a direction set to produce a monetary benefit it is to be appreciated that other implementations can be utilized. A user can be offered to take a detour past a high end car dealership. As the user passes by the dealership the user can be exposed to exclusive content e.g. via a radio device concerning available vehicles that is not available elsewhere. Moreover route augmentation can take place on the fly based on situational information. For instance a user can be offered an about five percent discount on gasoline to pass by a gasoline station when his vehicle is near empty.

Now referring to an example system discloses production of a monetized direction set particularly aspects of an analysis component . A communication component can engage with other devices to transfer information. Operation can take place wirelessly in a hard wired manner employment of security technology e.g. encryption etc. Moreover the communication component can utilize various protective features such as performing a virus scan on obtained data and blocking information that is positive for a virus.

The communication component can obtain a starting point and intended destination based upon the obtained data a route can be constructed by the generation component . According to one embodiment the generation component determines through a global positioning system that a location of a vehicle operating the system as well as contextual information such as time of day. For example at 8 30 am on weekdays the user can often drive from her home to her office. The generation component can make note of a driving pattern and infer e.g. through artificial intelligence techniques that a route will be from her home to her office at a requisite time. The generation component can produce a route based upon a user request. For instance a user can input that she would like a route estimated to take a shortest amount of distance and the generation component builds a route based on the user request. An evaluation component can assess the route produced by the generation component and locate monetization capabilities of the route as well as possible modifications of the route e.g. detours .

While the subject specification discusses monetization from a business standpoint e.g. businesses paying money to have a vehicle travel past the business it is to be appreciated that other configurations are possible. For instance a local government can have an interest in keeping traffic balanced e.g. not allowing some roads to have too high of congestion populating shipping lanes utilized with less frequency etc. . An equilibrium component can scrutinize traffic patterns and produce reward opportunities to allow traffic to stay balanced therefore augmentation is based upon a congestion pattern.

For example a relatively large number of vehicles can be exiting a downtown area after a baseball game. Commonly highways are utilized by individuals to leave the area and popular use of the highways can create congestion. The equilibrium component can scrutinize a traffic situation and a determination can be made e.g. through artificial intelligence techniques that there is an opportunity to provide a user a reward to avoid the highway for a period of time e.g. about two hours after the baseball game . A government office can be contacted automatically to determine if a reward can be received if a user takes an alternative non highway route.

Artificial intelligence component makes at least one inference or at least one determination toward reward capability identification or route augmentation. A user can have an interest in motorboats and a slight detour along a designated route can take the user past a motorboat dealership. An inference can be made that the user would accept less of a reward to pass the dealership due to his interest and or infer that the user would like an augmentation performed automatically. In addition the artificial intelligence component can determine if a monetization opportunity and or route augmentation is reasonable. For instance taking a teenage driver past taverns with an age restriction the teenager does not meet can be considered unreasonable. In addition having a route augmentation e.g. adding a detour to a route that takes a user on a detour multiple factors longer then an intended route can be unreasonable e.g. take a user on an about five mile detour when the user is upon an about one mile route .

Artificial intelligence component can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences and or making determinations related to applying a service e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Bayesian networks e.g. created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. Methods also include methods for the capture of logical relationships such as theorem provers or more heuristic rule based expert systems.

Storage can be arranged in a number of different configurations including as random access memory battery backed memory hard disk drives magnetic tape etc. Various features can be implemented upon storage such as compression and automatic back up e.g. use of a Redundant Array of Independent Drives configuration .

Utilization of storage increases possible functionality of the system . In one example the analysis component can use learning techniques to identify a reward capability. A particular company can have previously turned down requests to reward a user for taking a detour on numerous occasions without acceptance. History concerning the particular company can be retained in storage . The artificial intelligence component can infer that the particular company is not a viable opportunity and stop consideration of the company in an effort to conserve system resources e.g. processing speed .

Now referring to an example system discloses production of a monetized direction set particularly aspects of a production component . An analysis component collects input e.g. contextual data and identifies a reward capability of travel between at least two locations. Identified results contextual data an original route and the like are transferred to the production component so a direction set can be adequately augmented to increase travel monetization.

A correspondence component can engage with other devices to transfer information such as collecting output of the analysis component . Operation can take place wirelessly in a hard wired manner employment of security technology e.g. encryption etc. Moreover the correspondence component can utilize various protective features such as performing a virus scan on obtained data and blocking information that is positive for a virus.

Information obtained by the correspondence component can be processed by a calculation component that computes a monetary factor the monetary factor is used by the production component to augment the direction set. Multiple businesses can offer different amounts to have a user take an alternative route. In an illustrative example a user can have an intended route to take Main Street while about three businesses offer money for the user to detour on West 3Street and about two businesses request a detour on East 3Street where the detour is associated with a monetary reward. The calculation component can perform computations to determine if travel upon East 3Street or West 3Street would produce a higher reward for the user. Logic can be utilized by the calculation component to distinguish between unequal rewards. For instance if businesses on West 3Street are offering coupons while businesses on East 3Street are offering financial credit e.g. placing money in a bank account the calculation component can resolve which reward can be more beneficial e.g. through analysis of previous user actions such as if a user has responded highly to coupon offers . Aside from businesses aspects of the subject specification can be applied to other areas such as with municipalities an implementation allows lowering traffic around hospital emergency entrance areas.

Computation results can be processed by a comparison component that balances a reward capability against a non reward factor the balance result is used by the production component to augment the direction set. Rewards are commonly not a single factor for consideration in taking a route. Other non reward factors can be taken into account such as timing e.g. a user is in a hurry to reach a location inconvenience e.g. there are numerous confusing turns to a route that would be highly monetized safety e.g. a monetized route can include roads that have a higher history of traffic accidents etc. The comparison component can include a sifting capability to eliminate unrealistic opportunities. For instance an opportunity that a user can obtain an about one dollar reward for traveling about 200 miles out of her initial route can be considered unrealistic and the comparison component can eliminate the possibility. It can simply use the current gas price and the car gas mileage but more complex factors can be added owners time etc. .

Using the example describing operation of the calculation component East 3Street can have a higher reward potential e.g. a user is offered about five dollars then West 3Street e.g. a user is offered about three dollars . However East 3Street can have relatively heavy construction that would make for difficult driving which is undesirable to the user. The comparison component can determine e.g. through artificial intelligence techniques if travel upon East 3Street or West 3Street is more desirable taking into account reward factors computed by the calculation component and non reward factors.

A user can input information relevant to direction augmentation through a participation component . The participation component can be implemented as a keyboard microphone touch screen mouse optical scanner etc. to obtain user input where the user input is used in direction set augmentation. According to one embodiment the user can be presented an option to approve a monetized route. It is possible that there can be a relatively large number of routes and presentation of the routes can become cumbersome to the user. The participation component can include filtering logic such that limited route options are presented to a user e.g. a route with a highest reward capability a route with highest balance between reward and non reward factors etc. The user can select a route to use in the direction set through engagement of the participation component .

A path component locates conduits of travel to enable a user to travel along a monetized route. Using the example previously disclosed it could be determined that the user should take West 3Street however a user is traveling upon Main Street . The path component can identify that the user should travel south upon Market Street to reach West 3Street prior to the opportunities e.g. the businesses and then north upon Maple Avenue to return to Main Street . The path component can include logic that enables optimization such that a user performs rewarded travel in a least amount of time.

Results of the path component can be used by a construction component to build a direction set considering rewards commonly based upon a core route produced by the generation component of . The construction component can build different routes that are equivalent to a base route. For instance a user can request that a route be constructed that takes a shortest amount of time between two points and the generation component of creates a core route that is estimated to take a user about thirty minutes. The construction component can build variations off the core route that takes a user past various businesses that takes no longer then thirty five minutes e.g. thirty minutes and thirty five minutes are considered equivalent . Moreover the construction component can create routes tailored to an entity such as a route that takes a user past entity businesses but also avoids competitor businesses

It is to be appreciated other configurations of the production component are possible. For example the path component and construction component can initially construct routes. The calculation component and comparison component can perform operations upon the constructed routes and based upon operation results the production component produces a direction set.

Practice of the system of allows multiple routes to be produced. In one example a candy store can send a request to the analysis component of that a user should take a route that diverts her to the candy store and the user will be financially compensated for the diversion. The analysis component of can make a request to other businesses to determine if they would like to pay money to have the user pass by their stores. An automotive dealer gasoline station and car wash can evaluate metadata concerning the user e.g. produced from a profile held in storage of produced through the communication component of to determine if an offer should be made. The gasoline station can determine the user could benefit from additional fuel the car wash can discover that that the user s car is dirty and could use a wash and the automotive dealer can evaluate her history and learn she is looking for a new automobile. These three businesses can offer a reward for the user to take routes by their businesses in addition to the candy store. Route A can be outputted by the production component of as an augmentation of Route B. The user can pass other locations such as a boutique shop and billboard advertisement without them paying financial compensation thus entities can gain a free benefit from transactions between other parties.

Route C can be used as an alternative direction set that balances convenience e.g. less distance fewer turns less time etc. against monetization. A gasoline station and restaurant can offer a monetary reward to the user that is smaller then what is offered for the user taking Route A. However the comparison component of can determine e.g. through artificial intelligence techniques that a user can have a greatest benefit from taking Route C. Route C can have an added bonus of having a recognizable landmark e.g. a historical site to turn upon being shorter then Route A incorporating portions of Route B etc.

With reference now to a system is shown for disclosing a route to the user and performing financial operations in conjunction to the route. An analysis component can perform evaluations upon potential opportunities for route rewarding e.g. monetization . The analysis component can operate as a means for evaluating at least about one opportunity to provide a monetary compensation to a user by having the user travel along at least about one course. A production component augments e.g. creates modifies etc. a direction set to increase monetization associated with the route. The production component can function as a means for crafting e.g. builds alters etc. a route that implements at least about one evaluated opportunity by including at least about one course in the route to increase the monetary compensation to the user against inconvenience. Additionally the production component can operate as a means for producing at least two equivalent routes e.g. a core route through implementation of the generation component of and an augmented route .

A selection component can choose a route outputted e.g. augmented by the production component . According to one embodiment the production component augments at least two direction sets and the selection component chooses an augmented route based upon at least one identified reward capability. However the selection component can determine a route to choose based upon a core route e.g. produced by the generation component of and an augmented route. The selection component can function as a means for selecting a route for presentment to a user selection is based at least in part upon reward opportunity of the route. Other possible selection criteria can include user preferences extraneous factors e.g. weather is bad and a user is an inexperienced vehicle operator and the like. The selection component can also weigh reward opportunities. For instance a higher amount can be rewarded for Route A if a user makes a stop at a business while a lesser amount is associated with Route B but money is paid if the user drives by the business. The selection component can determine which route should be chosen commonly based upon opportunity cost calculations and user action predictions e.g. likelihood the user will stop at a business .

Moreover the selection component can implement as a means for operating an auction entities associate a reward with a route and selection is based upon a route with a highest bidder. For instance the production component can output ten routes equivalent to a core route. Entities e.g. businesses can be contacted to offer money for their route to be presented to a user. The entities can assign a monetary amount to a route and a route with a highest summation amount can be selected. The reward opportunity is a user taking a route e.g. traveling along a route a user taking a stop at a location along the route e.g. entering a store a monetization opportunity e.g. a host or user is paid money if an action takes place or a combination thereof.

A disclosure component presents at least about one direction set to a user. A disclosure component allows a user to appreciate a route and act upon the route e.g. select the route follow the route etc. . A non exhaustive list of disclosure components include a display screen touch screen speaker system virtual reality environment Braille production system printer etc. In addition the disclosure component can present information in multiple formats such as showing a video with audio capabilities. According to one embodiment the disclosure component discloses a standard route e.g. an original route produced by the generation component of and an augmented route e.g. modified by the production component . The user can select a route through touching an appropriate portion of the disclosure component and disclosure component can present the selected route in greater detail e.g. provide turn by turn instructions . However the disclosure component can implement to produce a route chosen by the selection component .

A transaction component can perform a reward transfer in conjunction with a reward based route. In one example a city government can offer a large commercial plane about one dollar not to fly over city airspace. In addition the reward transfer can take place in relation to user response to a commercial detail e.g. presented with a route . For example an advertisement can be played that a user should stop at a highway exit for a cup of coffee. If the user takes the exit buys the cup of coffee buys a different item etc. then payments of varying amounts can be made to an advertisement hosting service.

A position component can track a vehicle operating at least a portion of the system and relay coordinates to a central location. A check component can hold criteria to receive a reward of a direction set e.g. not to fly over city airspace . The vehicle can refer to the check component to assure reward criteria are met. Once criteria are met e.g. a flight is complete without going over airspace a business is passed etc. the transaction component can debit money from an account and transfer it a user and or a company operating at least part of the system etc. The transaction component can function as means for providing the monetary compensation for meeting at least about one criterion related to at least about one opportunity.

At block user history is obtained commonly from internal vehicle storage. As a user operates a vehicle a profile can be generated concerning the user and periodically updated. For instance the user can be a teenager who plays high school football and has a history of frequenting sporting goods stores a profile can be created with this information and ultimately extracted.

At event an input from the user is gathered as well as contextual information. The teenager can place information in a display component that he plans to travel from his home to the local high school stadium. Information can be gathered such as weather conditions time from kickoff importance of the game teenager role on the team etc.

Act evaluates the opportunity in light of data gathered at events and or . It is highly likely the teenager will have an interest in the sporting goods store and contextual conditions such as kickoff being several hours away suggest the teenager will stop at the store as well as not need much incentive e.g. reward to visit the store. However since the store specializes in areas outside of the teenager s interest likelihood can be lowered. Act can balance information results to determine if a route should be crafted a reward that should be offered e.g. the store provides a range that it will offer such as up to about one dollar and act computes an accurate price if a different route should be crafted etc.

At block a route is crafted that implements at least about one evaluated opportunity by including at least about one course in the route. For instance it can be determined at act e.g. through artificial intelligence techniques that the opportunity to take the teenager past the sporting goods store should be implemented in a route. A course can be added in the route to have the teenager pass the store.

Action allows a crafted route to be implanted such that it can be disclosed to the teenager. According to one embodiment the crafted route is automatically provided to the user. However the user can commonly be asked if he would like to use the reward based route. A request can be made to the teenager if he would like to take the reward based route the request commonly includes a potential reward extra time the route will take paths that are included contextual data e.g. traffic flow etc. The teenager can react positively to the request so there is replacing an original route with the crafted route appointing a crafted route e.g. there is no original route if a user does not request a route so the crafted route becomes the implanted route etc.

At block the crafted route is presented to the user. Various implementations can be used such as showing the crafted route on a display screen generating a printout on a home computer e.g. performed with a user is outside of a vehicle reciting turn by turn instructions etc. A presented route can be modified by the user such as the teenager adds an ice cream store as a waypoint on the crafted route that is convenient to the sporting goods store.

Contextual information opportunities are processed at event for example evaluating characteristics of a user and comparing standards against opportunity information. If there is an opportunity that is for a man to drive past a private gentleman s club then a determination can be made if a driver is male or female.

At block a request is made for monetization details such as how much an entity is willing to offer constraints of an offer etc. A check takes place to determine if monetization is available. Using the above example if the driver is a woman and there is a constraint that for monetization the driver is to be a male then the check can be slated as unavailable. A check determines if a monetization is feasible. For instance an opportunity can be for a user to pass by a fueling station when a user s vehicle is low on fuel. However if the user s vehicle does not have enough fuel to reach the station then the monetization capability is practically unfeasible.

If checks and respond in an affirmative answer then appropriate modifications can be determined at action . For instance determinations to alter a route in a manner to produce a highest amount reward. If either check or check respond in a negative then a standard route can be disclosed at act e.g. a route without modification . It is to be appreciated that other outcomes are possible to a negative response such as not disclosing a route e.g. there is no original route .

Now referring to there is an example methodology disclosed for crafting a route that implements at least about one evaluated opportunity by including at least about one course in the route e.g. action of . Modifications can be collected at event commonly modifications that are produced by action of .

At block probabilities can be run to determine a likelihood of a user accepting a route with a modification. For instance if a check performed upon a user schedule discovers the user is late for a meeting then it is relatively unlikely the user will accept a route with a modification. If a probability is too low e.g. below a standard threshold then the methodology can return to methodology e.g. action to determine a different modification.

At block vehicle capabilities are analyzed such as evaluating vehicle clearance miles until a scheduled oil change fuel level etc. Verification determines if a vehicle is capable of taking a route with modifications. For instance a modified route could require that a vehicle travel over rugged terrain if a user s vehicle is a sports car then it is highly unlikely the vehicle can handle the terrain. If the vehicle is capable then event occurs that allows for selection of a route e.g. an original route upon which a modification can be incorporated. In an alternative embodiment the methodology can continue to a route generation event. If the verification determines a vehicle is not capable of following a route with a modification then a standard route can be discloses the methodology terminates etc.

While aspects of the subject specification relate to a user such as a driver of a vehicle considerations can be made for other individuals such as vehicle passengers. For purposes of simplicity of explanation methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter were shown and described as a series of blocks. However it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Moreover while a subset of the subject specification discloses operation of aspects though utilization of a vehicle it is to be appreciated aspects can be practiced through alternative manners e.g. walking swimming etc. 

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a program that runs on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor multiprocessor or multi core processor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed subject matter can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with the subject specification. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the specification for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the specification for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Additionally it should be noted that one or more components could be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components could also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but known by those of skill in the art.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject specification but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject specification are possible. Accordingly the subject specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

