---

title: Method for information gathering and dissemination in a social network
abstract: A method automatically and efficiently propagates information using previously established social methods of communication (e.g., email, instant messaging (IM), social network message posting, and short message services). In conjunction with the method, a system collects and disseminates information on a social network. The system includes: (a) a server for providing a user interface (e.g., a user facing web site) which allows a user to exchange information with one or more external services, wherein the information exchange includes receiving a message from the user that the user intends to disseminate through the external services; (b) a message module which prepares the message received from the user for dissemination; and (c) a communication module coupled to the user interface, the message module and the external services to mediate the information exchange between the user and the external services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07958192&OS=07958192&RS=07958192
owner: 
number: 07958192
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070425
---
The present application is related to and claims priority of copending U.S. provisional patent application Copending Application entitled Method for Message Dissemination in an Instant Message Ser. No. 60 795 137 filed on Apr. 25 2006. The Copending Application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to an on line method for information gathering and dissemination. In particular the present invention relates to a self optimizing social network which gathers and disseminates information among its members.

Information is often held and communicated in inefficient ways. For example an individual may have a spare item that he would like to be rid of while a friend of his may need such an item. Often the information that would result in both needs being met is not communicated. As another example an individual may need tickets to a basketball game for a coming weekend while the individual s uncle may have friends with room in their box seats that they are willing to share. The success of many internet web sites has been predicated on partially filling this information gap. However the first generation of internet web sites which attempt to solve this problem largely ignored the existing social structure in their respective approaches. More recently a newer generation of web sites attempt to utilize a form of social structure namely passing information between a person and other individuals selected by the persons friends Such an approach utilizes an existing social structure in a straightforward manner i.e. the need and desire among friends to communicate. Examples of these web sites include those that allow photograph sharing or those bulletin boards that allow requests for sharing items e.g. a ticket .

What has not been explored to date is a methodology that blends the prior art approaches to spreading information with more automated computer driven and analytical message propagation methods that make use of existing online methods of social interactions e.g. email instant messaging short messages services and social network postings .

The present invention provides a method for automatically and efficiently propagating information using previously established social methods of communication e.g. email instant messaging IM social network message posting and short message services .

According to one embodiment of the present invention a system for collecting and disseminating information on a social network includes a a server for providing a user interface e.g. a user facing web site which allows a user to exchange information with one or more external services wherein the information exchange includes receiving a message from the user that the user intends to disseminate through the external services b a message module which prepares the message received from the user for dissemination and c a communication module coupled to the user interface the message module and the external services to mediate the information exchange between the user and the external services.

In one embodiment the communication module communicates with the external services through remote procedure calls. The external services may be an email service an instant messaging services or a social network. In an instant messaging service the message to be disseminated may be referenced in a user status displayed in connection with the instant messaging service. Alternatively the message may be posted as a weblog or a posting on a public electronic message board of a social network.

In one embodiment a message propagation module is provided for determining parameters related to message dissemination. The message propagation module may limit selected messages to be disseminated only for a predetermined period of time.

In one embodiment a friend module is provided that supplies a relationship graph e.g. a friends graph which relates potential message recipients according to a social relationship. In that instance the social relationship helps to formulate message propagation paths. The friends module keeps track of parameters indicative of predetermined relationships between the potential message recipients such as a frequency of communication between two given potential message recipients.

In one embodiment an economic module is provided that automatically optimizes the parameters related to message dissemination. The economic module may select message propagation paths based on an indicated level of importance in the message or costs of propagation. The user assigns resources to message propagation such as a number of credit points or an amount of money. The economic module also provides incentives for assisting in propagating the message. The economic module may include a database which stores data collected for factors affecting message dissemination effectiveness. Such factors include one or more of a data rating the importance of the message b data provided from components of the system c data relating to the relevance of the message d data relating the closeness of the recipients e data regarding the geographical proximity of the actors f data regarding the user s past status messages g relevant data regarding the message or the user h data regarding the intrusiveness of the medium i data regarding the duration of the posting and j data regarding whether or not the user has a record of helping message propagation.

In one embodiment metrics are applied to measure message dissemination effectiveness. Suitable metrics include one or more of a a user satisfaction metric b a user return rate c a user stay metric d a user conversion rate e a message selection rate and f an allocation of points.

In one embodiment a proxy advertising system sends a message to be advertised in an external advertising server via an application program interface.

The present invention is better understood upon consideration of the detailed description below in conjunction with the drawings.

To facilitate correspondence among the figures like elements in the figures are assigned like reference numerals.

According to one embodiment the present invention provides an information sharing service. On a user s behalf the information sharing service accesses many ways at the user s disposal that propagates the user s message. In addition the information sharing service uses the resources of the user s friends. In return a user makes his own methods available for his friends to use in a like manner.

In addition a system of the present invention tracks and analyzes messages to determine the recipients to whom the messages would be most useful. The result of the analysis may be used to determine how a message may be spread through a person s social internet. The system also analyzes and keeps track of those who have helped and makes it easier for people to account properly for his helpers in the past and therefore who are most likely to be helpful to them in the future . Since what is primarily being sought out here is the attention of other people the system has access to an important finite resource people s attention. Sometimes in order to be efficient a person must demonstrate that his message is important. A system of the present invention includes a component that allows people to pay either in monetary terms or with a point based system to have their messages spread further than others. Thus the system may be viewed in fact as an advertising system.

The advantage of accessing services through a web site is compelling. Through a web browser a client may issue for example commands e.g. commands to log into a social network as illustrated by comment of . The client may also receive information from the user facing web site e.g. a posting when events occur in the internal components of information sharing service see comment .

Information sharing service provides communication module which allows the user to access other existing social systems . For example communication module provides support for a user a to communicate using email messages or instant message on various instant messaging networks b to post on another s social interaction services e.g. Myspace or Facebook Wall and c to exchange text messages with the user s phone contacts e.g. over a short message service SMS . See comment of . Communication module allows the system to propagate messages postings through these existing networks on the user s behalf. The collection of services and places to which a person may spread a message is referred in this detailed description as the person s social internet. In this detailed description the term posting is not limited to posting on a message board or a posting in a social interaction service but may refer generally to any message unless the context specifically requires.

Information sharing service acts on a user s behalf in other online social systems through communication module . The term social systems refers to the set of services that people use on the internet or electronically on the phone in order to communicate with friends they have made either offline or online. Historically these systems have included things like email systems and instant messaging systems. More recently a newer set of services have emerged in this area including text messaging on cellular phones and social network postings on sites such as Facebook or Myspace. In the user at a client machine may cause posting to be made see comment and receive postings from posting propagation module discussed in further detail below See comment .

Information sharing service utilizes services that are typically delivered on local networks and the Internet. A network based service e.g. the Google search engine is typically delivered using multiple communicating cooperative components e.g. the user s web browser web servers application servers and database servers . These components may communicate and exchange data for example over the TCP IP protocol. TCP IP refers to a popular conventional transport protocol for reliable communications. Other transport protocols may be used as well. A higher level protocol hypertext transfer protocol HTTP utilizes TCP IP at the transport level to provide interaction between web browsers and web servers. HTTP is an example of a remote procedure call RPC mechanism which is a simple request response type data exchange protocol. Under HTTP like most other RPC mechanisms the request response pair is more structured than the free flow of information allowed under TCP IP. Other RPC mechanisms are possible and are in fact often used in communication between application servers which typically run on a service provider s computers. In this detailed description the term RPC encompasses mechanisms which are not as standardized as HTTP. While RPCs are extensively used in information sharing service other possible RPC implementations may also be used.

As discussed above a user facing component is provided as a web site which allows the user to interact with information sharing service and which controls how information sharing service interacts on the user s behalf. For example at the web site the user may enter a posting he or she wishes to spread may view comments on its postings and may comment on the postings of others. In order to make this service useful as a whole information sharing service provides capabilities that are seemingly not directly related to postings or to their propagation. For example information sharing service allows users to exchange emails or instant messages with their friends. The user facing component utilizes services of other components of information sharing service . Subcomponents of the user facing component include the web server and a browser based user interface.

Most users access the web using web browsers which run on a user s computer or other access device and which typically use the HTTP protocol to relay commands and receive responses from web services. Information sharing service provides an HTTP service utilizing web server to respond to browsers HTTP commands. Web server is typically merely an entry point into the services provided. To save a user s state and to carry out a user s commands other components of information sharing service are typically engaged. shows in greater detail components of information sharing service interacting with communication module of .

One application that illustrates these capabilities of communication module is authenticating a user with other social systems to take advantage of capabilities in these social systems e.g. making a posting via email IM or SMS see comment of .

There are two parts to communication module the back end which accesses and controls the accessed social systems and the front end which interfaces with the user to determine the user s intention which is then used by the back end. The front end may be implemented substantially in the user facing web site and is described later in further detail. The back end interacts with disparate systems and is thus implemented by multiple subcomponents. Each subcomponent controls one or more of the social systems interacting with information sharing service .

One subcomponent controls instant messaging IM systems which include such systems as AOL s instant messenger MSN s messenger Google s Talk network Yahoo s IM network. Through IM systems users may specify friends on each network and after getting confirmation from such friends users may instantly exchange messages when these friends are online. A user may display his or her IM status to his or her friends. These statuses inform about a user s current activity at the current time. For example a user s status may say Studying which indicates that the user is studying and therefore does not wish to be bothered during this time. IM statuses are an important part IM communication which maintains healthy functioning of these IM systems.

The subcomponent for interacting with IM systems IM subcomponent may be implemented in a software server which runs on a machine connected to both the internet and information sharing service s local network. The IM subcomponent interacts with the IM systems via an RPC mechanism to exchange command control and other logistical information. This RPC mechanism in turn allows this subcomponent to be controlled by other components in information sharing service . The IM subcomponent connects to the instant messaging services and performs actions on those services on behalf of other components of information sharing service which acts on behalf of its users.

The IM subcomponent establishes network links between itself and IM services using conventional methods and the TCP IP set of protocols which dictate how various services communicate and exchange data with each other over the internet. A correct set of RPCs is required to be issued to the IM systems. As the nature of RPCs is not well established and many different ways of implementing RPCs are used in practice a portion of the subcomponent may be implemented using existing libraries which provides both executable code and interface definitions. One example of such a library is the Pidgin Library which allows and simplifies access to IM services.

The IM subcomponent also establishes listening network connections on the local network. These listening network connections receive and act on RPCs and thus commands from our other internal components such as the user interface and other intermediate systems and appropriately translate the commands into RPCs on the IM networks and vice versa. For example a command from another component may indicate that a user Bob intends to send the message hi to user Anne. In response the IM subcomponent sends an RPC to the corresponding IM system to cause the message to be delivered to user Anne. As another example a local RPC may be received that indicates that user Bob has set his status message to working an RPC is then sent to appropriate IM systems to set corresponding status messages to working for others on the IM systems. The IM subcomponent allows access to other capabilities of the IM systems e.g. the ability to set a profile picture and exposes such capabilities to other components on the local network.

One important function of the IM subcomponent is the proper authorization of users. For example information sharing service must authenticate each user. Typically each IM service may authenticate its user via appropriate RPCs. Typically the IM subcomponent makes an RPC to supply the user s username and password. The IM subcomponent exposes the authentication process of the IM services to the local network so that the user facing interface for example may obtain the necessary authentication information for authentication with each IM service. An authentication module may be implemented to handle authentication services to the IM services and with other servers on the local network.

An analogous Email subcomponent accesses and controls email systems. As in the IM subcomponent the Email subcomponent may be implemented as a software server connected to both the internet and the local network. The Email subcomponent connects to existing email services e.g. Gmail Yahoo mail and Hotmail and maintains listening connections on the local network and exposes the capabilities of the remote email systems to components on the local network. Communication with the Email services is accomplished as in IM services through RPCs to accomplish such functions as checking a user s email messages or sending an email message on behalf of the user. The email subcomponent receives local RPCs and acts on them. The Email subcomponent may share an authorization subsubcomponent with the IM services subcomponent.

Social networks e.g. Facebook and Myspace have emerged as large enablers of communications on the modern internet. Millions of users have accounts with these social network services and use them to keep track of their friends activities. A social network subcomponent allows a user partial control of other social network services through the user interface. The social network subcomponent is similar to the IM and Email subcomponents discussed above. Instead of using email or instant message services of the user the social network subcomponent affects a user s profile or post messages on behalf of the user in a social network. The social network subcomponent connects to social networks and issue RPCs to the social networks to authenticate users to change a user s profile or to post messages in a user s public space or the public space of their friends. As in the Email and IM subcomponents the social network subcomponent may have an authorization subsubcomponent which controls access to the social network services. Similarly the social network subcomponent listens on the local network for RPCs.

Additional subcomponents may be incorporated for accessing other social services that a user may have access to. For example a text messaging subcomponent may allow access to SMS services. As discussed above all of these subcomponents of communication module share common functionalities e.g. to connect to internet services and to receive local RPCs .

Information sharing service also includes friend tracking system which keeps track of a user s friends. As used in this detailed description the term friends may encompass the user s friends in the offline world friends that have been so identified on online systems e.g. email systems instant messaging systems social network systems names listed in an address book associated with the user s telephone and any other persons with whom the user has actually communicated or may potentially communicate. Information sharing service uses the user s friends and those who are reachable directly or indirectly through the friends of the user s friends to propagate the user s postings. Friends may be grouped by specific social relationships e.g. family coworkers and people with similar interests by geographical locations or any other suitable groupings.

Upon authenticating a user on a communication service e.g. IM or social network communication module issues RPCs to retrieve information associated with the user s account. Communication module exposes via RPC the user s list of friends on the system where he has been authenticated. The user s list of friends is then stored in a local database See comment of . One way to store a user s friends is as tuple entries in the database where each tuple includes a the username of the user b the service this user belongs to and c the username of the friend. The tuple entries can be updated as the user adds new friends or deletes existing friends.

From the information stored in the database friend tracker module generates a graph of the network of friends friends graph across the different communication services to which the user belongs. The friends graph can be also used to determine mutual friends among users. For example if user Bob is a friend of user Anne and user Anne is a friend of user Charlie. The graph identifies user Anne as a mutual friend of users Bob and Charlie. The present invention uses identification of such connection types between friends to spread postings. Because information sharing service associates a user s accounts across different communication services friend tracker module allows user Anne who has accounts on services A and B to relay posting information or messages to user Charlie on service A and to user Bob on service B.

Friend tracker module stores additional information about a user s friends. For example friend tracker module may track which one of a user s friends and on which service the user communicates with the most. One implementation stores an additional field in the tuple to record the number of messages communicated to the corresponding friend. For certain communication systems e.g. an IM service information is stored about the user s current and past status messages e.g. available busy or away and his profile picture.

Information sharing service includes posting module which allows creating and keeping track of postings that the user wishes to propagate. Posting module tracks every item that a user desires to propagate at any one time to optimize the use of the user s resources e.g. its emails instant messenger status messages and social network postings . Information sharing service supports interacting with a user s postings. For example a viewer of a posting may view comment and respond to the posting e.g. choosing whether or not to help spread the user s posting . In addition the user may specify the importance of a posting review those who responded or moderate comments on the posting.

Posting module allows a user create new postings and manage existing postings through a user interface running on the user s client machine . The user may specify information regarding the posting such as a a description of an item including a tag line and a posting universal resource locator URL pointing to a web page posting page with more information b a duration for the posting c an indication of how far the posting may be propagated e.g. the total number of people the user wishes to reach by a depth in the friends graph reaching the friends of the user s friends or by a geographic location or an indication of the importance of the posting e.g. how many points or an amount of money the user is willing to spend propagating or advertising the posting .

The tag line is a kind of title for the posting. An example of a short tag line is I am selling my car. or I need a ride to the airport on Friday . The posting page may be created automatically which by default points to a page in information sharing service . The user can add additional and more detailed description of the posting to the page at the specified URL. For example a user car seller may add a picture of the car as well as detailed information about its mileage last date of tune up and asking price. As another example if the user wishes to propagate a posting about a new musician a music video may be included on the posting page. The user can also post additional information such as preferred contact information. The posting page may also reside outside of information sharing service . The posting page allows other users to leave comments about the posting. For example someone may leave the comment I can give you a ride to the airport on Friday. or Hey I am interested in purchasing the car. Does it have a GPS system installed .

When the user specifies a duration on the posting posting module determines an expiration time for propagating the posting. For example certain postings e.g. I m having drinks at the Miracle until midnight. should propagate only for a few hours while other postings e.g. We are hiring software engineers. should be propagated for a few months. Alternatively the user may specify no expiration date for a posting which may deleted at a later time. To learn how far to propagate a posting in a friends network posting module may ask the user to specify a level of depth in the friends graph or a number of people to reach. For example a posting about a small party at my place may normally be deemed appropriate for the user s friends or to a maximum of 50 interested people. In one embodiment when a user specifies a depth of one 1 the posting is propagated to his friends only. Similarly if the user specified a depth of two 2 the posting is propagated to the friends of his friends. In this manner a level of three 3 propagate the posting to 3degree friends i.e. friends of the friends of the friends of the user . The user may use a geographic location limitation to indicate that the posting should only be propagated to people associated with a particular area e.g. Boston . Geographical limitation is useful as some messages may have relevance only in the specified limited geographical area.

As discussed above the user may specify an amount of money or points to spend on propagating the posting. The value indicates the importance of the posting and an appropriate amount of resources that should be allocated to propagate it. The user s specifications of the duration and the level of depth may also determine a required minimum amount of money or points. Further detail regarding this currency is described in further detail below in conjunction with economic module .

The user may view and manage all current and past postings through the user interface. When a current posting is deleted posting module causes propagation of the posting to cease. The user can also delete the posting page associated with the posting and moderate or disable commenting on the posting page. Posting module collects statistics regarding the posting that can be analyzed for the effectiveness of the posting. For example posting module may provide statistics on the number of times a posting page was visited as a function of the levels in the friends graph. A car sale posting for example may show 200 visits in the past 24 hours in which 100 visits were from friends and 60 visits were from friends of friends. Based on the effectiveness of the posting a user may adjust the tag line the amount of propagation the duration and even the amount of money or points to spend on propagating the posting. A user can also track which user in his social internet have helped with propagating the posting to understand which of his or her friends are helping out.

Whether a posting page was visited by a friend or a friend of a friend may be determined in a number of ways. Information sharing service checks if the friend is logged into our system. Another way is to embed a different unique identifier in the query parameters of the posting page for each friend. Yet another method asks for contact information whenever a viewer visits the posting page. All information relating to a posting page can be stored locally in a database. One simple implementation stores in a table in which each row contains a posting identification and the stored information grouped together in fields. Other implementations are of course possible.

The user interface allows interacting with a user s postings. As discussed above in one embodiment a visitor of a posting page may view postings comment on postings or choose whether or not to help the poster in spreading their posting. To view a posting in a web browser a user gets the URL of the posting page. The posting page is retrieved which contains detailed information regarding the posting page as well as comments made by users about the posting page. A user that is authenticated may post authenticated comments whereas users that are not authenticated post unauthenticated or anonymous comments. Authenticated comments are displayed more prominently than unauthenticated comments. Users that are authenticated can post public comments that may be viewed by all visitors to the page or private comments that may be viewed by a subset of other authenticated users. Unauthenticated users can only post public comments. When a comment is posted on the posting page the comment is displayed on the page along with information about the user posting the comment the time of day when the comment was posted and for authenticated users an optional image of the comment author.

Information sharing service provides a method for a user to decide which friends the user may help with propagating a posting. A user may choose to help a friend on a particular posting on all postings tagged with similar topics e.g. all postings having the word job mentioned some friends on all of their postings all friends on all postings or their extended social network. For each method the user specifies the resources e.g. IM email SMS information sharing service may use to spread the user s messages. These preferences can be stored in the database for other components e.g. posting propagation module to access.

Information sharing service includes posting propagation module which propagates postings. Posting propagation module and posting module together process messages as to both content and delivery. In some embodiments their functions are performed by an integrated module. The term message module refers generally to the components that collectively perform message processing such as those performed by posting propagation module and posting module . In this system a user may access resources i.e. resources in the user s social internet not only for propagating the user s own postings but also the postings of the user s friends also. Posting propagation in posting propagation module may be performed automatically directed by both the users involved and the implemented algorithms. shows in greater detail components of information sharing service interacting with posting propagating module of .

Once a user has created a posting in the system the posting is ready to be propagated. Posting propagation module communicates with posting module to obtain the particulars of the posting to be propagated see comment of . The posting will be propagated through users who have agreed to make their resources available for propagation. This information is retrieved from friend tracker module see comment of . In one embodiment the cost of propagating the message is determined see for example comment of . Various incentives may be provided to the user to make resources available to others e.g. credits that the user may use with his own postings and recognition that the user is a helpful member of the user community . Incentives may be awarded in the form of points.

Propagation through IM systems is effectuated by setting a user s status to a message containing a tag line posting URL and the author associated with the posting. In addition a chain or friends path leading back to the original author of the posting may also be displayed. For example consider user Anne who is a friend of user Bob and user Bob is a friend of user Charlie. If user Anne has created a posting I am looking for a dentist in Palo Alto posting propagation module would propagate the posting to Charlie s friends by setting Charlie s IM status to Anne Bob s friend says I am looking for a dentist in Palo Alto. http imo.im posting id 12345 . Posting propagation module sets the status messages of users in the system to the details of another user s posting by making an RPC to the appropriate IM network or by some other equivalent means through communication module see comment of .

Propagation through an Email system may also be achieved using a method similar to the posting propagation method for IM systems discussed above except that that an email is sent to user Charlie s friends on behalf of user Anne. Similarly propagation in social networks may be implemented by displaying the posting information on a blog or on a public message board of the social network e.g. the user s Wall on the Facebook . Propagation on other systems follows substantially the same model e.g. an appropriate method is provided to communicate with the external communication system the recipient of a posting is informed of the poster and the current relationship between the recipient and the poster and details of the poster e.g. how much the poster has helped other members of the community .

Posting propagation module receives from friend tracking module a list of the user s friends and the friends of the user s friends comment . Posting propagation module also receives from economic module the types of communication systems to use to propagate a posting determined for example based on costs see comment the time for propagating the level of the friends graph to propagate to and other similar information. Propagating a posting via status messages for example may be less costly than propagating a message through SMS because SMS is more intrusive.

Information sharing service may develop embed and distribute widgets on external web sites such as social networking sites. As is known to those familiar with user interaction mechanisms on the internet the term widget refers to a well known mechanism by which a service provider may control a part of a user s web page e.g. on a social networking web site to provide access to its services. shows in greater detail components of information sharing service interacting with widget module of .

In information sharing service the widgets allow both the user and the user s friends to access their respective social internets from any place on the web. The widgets also allow information sharing system to distribute and propagate postings to all the widgets distributed based on friendships. See. comment of . Widgets e.g. the YouTube widget or Slide widgets have achieved widespread acceptance and use. Many widgets are written using javascript or the Adobe Flash language which is widely distributed in browsers. In one embodiment widgets allow the user to access its social internet from an external site and to distribute and propagate postings on other web sites see for example comment of . In one embodiment a widget provides a list of postings in a users social internet. The postings are selected as described in economic module . For example user Anne who has an account on a social network can install a widget from information sharing service on her social network profile page. The widget can then display postings created by her friends in information sharing system . These widgets act as helpers enabling a normal page to now be a host of a postings system as well as the other services.

Information sharing service includes economic module by which users can cooperate to exploit the social internets of all users which is a finite resource which efficient use requires coordination. The combined social internet becomes the total attention paid to the social means of communications by all current participants. shows in greater detail components of information sharing service interacting with economic module of .

Under economic module a user may underscore the importance of his posting by paying for propagation either through a point system see for example the detailed description below regarding point allocation or money e.g. by credit card and ACH transfers . Information sharing service thus includes many aspects of a conventional online advertising system e.g. the receipt of payments and fraud detection .

Information sharing service determines how to optimally use its various resources to help users communicate important information postings with each other. Optimization attempts maximize the value of the users and their friends time. For example a user may be trying to get his friends to come to my party tuesday night while a friend of the user Jane may be trying to find an appropriate bone marrow donor . A mutual friend Bob of the user and Jane may be preparing for final exams at a university. It may not be worthwhile for Bob to see the user s posting while if Bob and Jane are compatible Bob seeing Jane s posting may save Jane s life. Information sharing service optimizes to make appropriate decisions.

To optimize economic module enlists a data collection subsystem which includes economic data base see . Data is collected from both user input and deduction made by economic module . Various kinds of data that are believed to be factors affecting performance may be stored such as 

Economic module also measures the effectiveness of the propagation to be use for optimization of performance in optimization module . Various metrics for effectiveness can be used such as 

The data collected and the metric measurements in economic database are used for optimization of performance in optimization module . See comment of . Once a metric is adopted for evaluating the performance of the system accurate data is collected for each showing of a posting. Optimization is achieved by economic module analyzing how each factor contributes to the proper selection of the right posting to display at the right time if any . For example in one embodiment each factor is given a positive or negative weight and the total system health is measured by one of the metrics discussed above normalized for the number of users as appropriate. At regular time interval e.g. daily measurements are carried out in which the weights are changed and the health of the system is measured. Then when a new set of weights is deemed to provide a higher health metric that newer set of weights are used. Alternatively the user base of information sharing service may be divided into multiple groups with each group given a different set of weights and the health metrics are measured for each group. These techniques may be used to better determine what messages to share when to share it whether or not a posting should be propagated and to which group of users the posting should be shared e.g. to which level in the friends graph see comment of .

Another important element in the optimization process is the ability to demonstrate that a message is important to a user or group of users. Typically in commerce the willingness by a user to pay for a service demonstrates the importance in an economic way. Accordingly in one embodiment information sharing service provides both a point system and a payment system in which users may participate to underscore the importance of their messages. For example each user may be allocated points to spend over the period of a month on their important messages. A user may share these points with or to give them to other people who help him. Alternatively a user may purchase these points or indicate the importance of their posts directly monetarily. In another embodiment a user may be rewarded from time to time with points for various desirable behaviors such as helping a friend with a posting or connecting a friend to another friend. In another embodiment a user s point score is shown to others to allow them to decide whether or not to help a user with a particular task.

All of these factors are weighed in economic module to determine which resources to use which people are selected to receive and interact with the postings and what objectives may be achieved.

Information sharing service also includes proxy advertising system . In some instances a user s social internet may be insufficient to spread the user s posting efficiently to all its desired recipients. In these instances information sharing service allows a user to enhance propagation of his postings using traditional advertising on other online systems. Information sharing service thus becomes the user s agent on existing systems such as Google s or Yahoo s advertising systems. shows in greater detail components of information sharing service interacting with proxy advertising module of .

Proxy advertising system allows the user to distribute and propagate his posting to external advertising systems e.g. Google Adwords Yahoo s advertising system and any other third party advertising network . The users may advertise on external advertising networks through the user interface. In one embodiment the user selects a checkbox labeled Advertise on external networks and an input field to specify how much money to spend on the external ad networks. Information sharing service communicates with the external advertising networks via published application programming interfaces APIs . See for example comment of . The tag line of the posting the duration of the posting and the posting URL can then be used to generate an advertisement on these external ad systems. Furthermore when an external system allows pictures or a larger amount of text such information can be extracted from the posting page. When an external advertising system requires any field not found in the posting page the user can be prompted for the additional information.

By default information sharing service selects the external advertising systems to advertise on. For instance economic module may decide to spend 40 of the available money on Google Adwords 40 on Yahoo s advertising network and the remaining 20 on the Facebook s advertising network. Real time adjustments may be made to the advertising system depending on the effectiveness of the current fund distribution. Effectiveness can be measured in a variety of ways e.g. a click through rate or an action per click measurement . Alternatively a user may manually control the proxy advertising. For instance a user may specifically select the advertising networks on which to distribute his posting and the amount of money to spend to on each ad network.

Certain systems such as Google Adwords and Yahoo s advertising network request the advertiser to specify a list of keywords to be used to trigger a display of the advertisement. Information sharing service automates keyword generation by analyzing the posting tag line and the text on the posting page. In one embodiment the automatically generated keywords are generated by using all words in the posting page except for such common words such as articles and conjunctions. In another embodiment the user can modify the automatically generated list of keywords.

The above detailed description is provided to illustrate specific embodiments of the present invention and is not intended to be limiting. Numerous variations and modifications within the scope of the present invention are possible. The present invention is set forth in the following claims.

