---

title: Accessing subscribed content with a mobile computing device
abstract: A mobile computing device has a radio frequency transceiver and a processing circuit. The radio frequency transceiver is configured to communicate over a wireless network with a remote server. The processing circuit is configured to receive subscribed content from the remote server. The processing circuit is configured to determine a status of at least one local system resource and to determine whether to proceed with accessing the subscribed content based on the status.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08934871&OS=08934871&RS=08934871
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08934871
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070831
---
Mobile computing devices such as mobile telephones laptop computers and personal digital assistants can communicate with different wireless networks in different locations. The same mobile computing device may communicate via a wired network in an office building a Wi Fi network at home or at a hotel and a cellular network while in a moving vehicle. Mobile computing devices may also communicate over a wireless network with a remote server to retrieve content for use on the mobile computing device. The content may be subscribed content such as a web feed or pod cast.

Described herein are systems and methods which improve the accessing or retrieval of subscribed content which may be delivered via data feeds from a remote server to a mobile computing device. Further described are systems and methods which can intelligently reserve memory space for mobile computing applications when accessing subscribed content from a remote server. Further described are systems and methods for using information regarding wireless networks including the speed and availability of the wireless networks to determine when and how to download subscribed content. Further described are systems and methods for transmitting from a server and or receiving at a mobile computing device subscribed content at a time that minimally interferes with network resources and user operation of the mobile computing device. Further described are systems and methods for timing the receipt of subscribed content from a remote server to minimize the impact on battery power processor resources and or local memory resources. Further described are systems and methods for intelligently determining when how and or where to download and save subscribed content on a mobile computing device. Further described are systems and methods for avoiding race conditions. Further described are systems and methods for intelligently automatically downloading subscribed content in order to reduce battery drain increase data transfer efficiency and or provide adequate storage capabilities for content transferred to a mobile computing device.

The teachings herein extend to those embodiments which fall within the scope of the appended claims regardless of whether they accomplish one or more of the above mentioned exemplary advantages.

Referring first to a mobile computing device is shown. Device is a smart phone which is a combination mobile telephone and handheld computer having personal digital assistant functionality. The teachings herein can be applied to other mobile computing devices e.g. a laptop computer or other electronic devices e.g. a desktop personal computer etc. . Personal digital assistant functionality can comprise one or more of personal information management database functions word processing spreadsheets voice memo recording etc. and is configured to synchronize personal information from one or more applications with a computer e.g. desktop laptop server etc. . Device is further configured to receive and operate additional applications provided to device after manufacture e.g. via wired or wireless download SecureDigital card etc.

Device comprises a housing having a front side and a back side . An earpiece speaker a loudspeaker and a user input device e.g. a plurality of keys are coupled to housing . Housing is configured to hold a screen in a fixed relationship above a user input device in a substantially parallel or same plane. This fixed relationship excludes a hinged or movable relationship between the screen and plurality of keys in the fixed embodiment. Device may be a handheld computer which is a computer small enough to be carried in a typical front pocket found in a pair of pants comprising such devices as typical mobile telephones and personal digital assistants but excluding typical laptop computers and tablet PCs. In alternative embodiments display user input device earpiece and loudspeaker may each be positioned anywhere on front side back side or the edges therebetween.

In various embodiments device has a width shorter dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of no more than about 85 mm or no more than about 65 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a width of at least about 30 mm or at least about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a width of at least about 55 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a length longer dimension of no more than about 200 mm or no more than about 150 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of no more than about 135 mm or no more than about 125 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a length of at least about 70 mm or at least about 100 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a length of at least about 110 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a thickness smallest dimension of no more than about 150 mm or no more than about 50 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of no more than about 30 mm or no more than about 25 mm. According to some embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 10 mm or at least about 15 mm. According to some of these embodiments housing has a thickness of at least about 50 mm.

In some embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 2500 cubic centimeters and or up to about 1500 cubic centimeters. In some of these embodiments housing has a volume of up to about 1000 cubic centimeters and or up to about 600 cubic centimeters.

While described with regards to a handheld device many embodiments are usable with portable devices which are not handheld and or with non portable devices systems.

Device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA cellular radiotelephone communication systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM cellular radiotelephone systems etc.

In addition to voice communications functionality device may be configured to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems etc.

Device may be configured to provide voice and or data communications functionality through wireless access points WAPs in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. A wireless access point may comprise any one or more components of a wireless site used by device to create a wireless network system that connects to a wired infrastructure such as a wireless transceiver cell tower base station router cables servers or other components depending on the system architecture. Examples of wireless network systems may further include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system e.g. a cellular network and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants a wireless personal area network PAN system such as a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols.

As shown in the embodiment of device may comprise a processing circuit which may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor e.g. a base band processor . The host processor and the radio processor may be configured to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines shared memory and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although embodiments of the dual processor architecture may be described as comprising the host processor and the radio processor for purposes of illustration the dual processor architecture of device may comprise one processor more than two processors may be implemented as a dual or multi core chip with both host processor and radio processor on a single chip etc. Alternatively processing circuit may comprise any digital and or analog circuit elements comprising discrete and or solid state components suitable for use with the embodiments disclosed herein.

In various embodiments the host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. The host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in alternative embodiments.

The host processor may be configured to provide processing or computing resources to device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as application programs and system programs to provide computing and processing operations for device . Examples of application programs may include for example a telephone application voicemail application e mail application instant message IM application short message service SMS application multimedia message service MMS application web browser application personal information manager PIM application e.g. contact management application calendar application scheduling application task management application web site favorites or bookmarks notes application etc. word processing application spreadsheet application database application video player application audio player application multimedia player application digital camera application video camera application media management application a gaming application and so forth. The application software may provide a graphical user interface GUI to communicate information between device and a user.

System programs assist in the running of a computer system. System programs may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include for example an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries an application programming interface API graphical user interface GUI and so forth. Device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the host processor . In various embodiments the memory may be configured to store one or more software programs to be executed by the host processor . The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments device may comprise an memory port or expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example. Processing circuit may use memory port to read and or write to a removable memory card having memory for example to determine whether a memory card is present in port to determine an amount of available memory on the memory card to store subscribed content or other data or files on the memory card etc.

Device may comprise a user input device coupled to the host processor . The user input device may comprise for example a alphanumeric numeric or QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode a keypad and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a display . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of device . For example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations device may be configured to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply configured to supply and manage power to the elements of device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for device . For example the radio processor may be configured to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. Radio processor may be any of a plurality of modems manufactured by Qualcomm Inc. or other manufacturers.

Device may comprise a transceiver coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver may comprise one or more transceivers configured to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. For example transceiver may comprise a Wi Fi transceiver and a cellular or WAN transceiver configured to operate simultaneously.

The transceiver may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

Device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory etc. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . Further host proceesor and radio processor may share a single memory.

Device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card configured to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

Device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the radio processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices to enable wired e.g. serial cable etc. and or wireless e.g. WiFi short range etc. communication between device and one or more external computer systems.

In various embodiments device may comprise location or position determination capabilities. Device may employ one or more position determination techniques including for example Global Positioning System GPS techniques Cell Global Identity CGI techniques CGI including timing advance TA techniques Enhanced Forward Link Trilateration EFLT techniques Time Difference of Arrival TDOA techniques Angle of Arrival AOA techniques Advanced Forward Link Trilateration AFTL techniques Observed Time Difference of Arrival OTDOA Enhanced Observed Time Difference EOTD techniques Assisted GPS AGPS techniques hybrid techniques e.g. GPS CGI AGPS CGI GPS AFTL or AGPS AFTL for CDMA networks GPS EOTD or AGPS EOTD for GSM GPRS networks GPS OTDOA or AGPS OTDOA for UMTS networks etc.

In various embodiments device may comprise dedicated hardware circuits or structures or a combination of dedicated hardware and associated software to support position determination. For example the transceiver and the antenna system may comprise GPS receiver or transceiver hardware and one or more associated antennas coupled to the radio processor to support position determination.

The host processor may comprise and or implement at least one LBS location based service application. In general the LBS application may comprise any type of client application executed by the host processor such as a GPS application configured to communicate position requests e.g. requests for position fixes and position responses. Examples of LBS applications include without limitation wireless 911 emergency services roadside assistance asset tracking fleet management friends and family locator services dating services and navigation services which may provide the user with maps directions routing traffic updates mass transit schedules information regarding local points of interest POI such as restaurants hotels landmarks and entertainment venues and other types of LBS services in accordance with the described embodiments.

Radio processor may be configured to invoke a position fix by configuring a position engine and requesting a position fix. For example a position engine interface on radio processor may set configuration parameters that control the position determination process. Examples of configuration parameters may include without limitation location determination mode e.g. standalone MS assisted MS based actual or estimated number of position fixes e.g. single position fix series of position fixes request position assist data without a position fix time interval between position fixes Quality of Service QoS values optimization parameters e.g. optimized for speed accuracy or payload PDE address e.g. IP address and port number of LPS or MPC etc. In one embodiment the position engine may be implemented as a QUALCOMM gpsOne engine.

With reference now to mobile computing device may be used to access subscribed content on a remote server via a wireless network . Subscribed content is data published by a content provider to which a user has subscribed or may subscribe in order to receive updated content. Subscribed content includes web casts e.g. podcasts such as video audio and still photo data data provided in a web feed format such as RSS Really Simple Syndication RDF Resource Description Framework OPML Outline Processor Markup Language the Atom Syndication Format or other markup language formats such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensive markup language XML . Subscribed content may include news feeds blogs school information podcasts cached web pages etc. and may include enclosures in an enclosed file format or other code pointing to media files e.g. audio video photo etc. . Subscribed content or updated subscribed content may be referred to as episodes publications volumes numbers editions etc. Subscribed content may be described as being pulled from a content source using an aggregator or other mechanism as described below as opposed to being pushed as with e mail and instant messaging though in alternative embodiments subscribed content too may be pushed for example to an internet aggregator. Subscribed content does not include conventional e mails in this embodiment though in alternative embodiments the teachings herein may be applied to e mails and other content which is not subscribed content. Subscribed content may be updated periodically or from time to time by the associated content provider or a third party. Subscribing to a web feed or other source of subscribed content may be accomplished by a user registering or subscribing with a content provider for example via the content providers web site which may in one embodiment comprise dragging a link from a web browser to an aggregator or clicking an icon e.g. an RSS icon etc.

An aggregator or feed reader news reader etc. is an application or other module which collects web feeds or other subscribed content to make the subscribed content more easily accessible to a user. One exemplary aggregator is Bloglines a division of Ask.com produced by IAC Search Media Oakland Calif. Aggregator may be operable on one or both of mobile device and server . Aggregator may be configured to query all servers in a user s preselected list of web feeds or subscribed content sources e.g. feed list to check for new subscribed content. The checking may occur periodically e.g. every 30 minutes once a day etc. or from time to time and preferably occurs on a predetermined period or time schedule. If new content exists aggregator may make a note of the new content for example by setting a flag or downloading a new web feed summary or link or aggregator may download or synchronize with part or all of the subscribed content or a summary of the subscribed content.

Mobile computing device is configured to access subscribed content via a wireless WAN wireless LAN and or other wired or wireless networks. Subscribed content may be accessed by streaming content from server to device which is the presentation of the content to the user while the data is downloading typically with a portion of the content stored or cached on device . Subscribed content may alternatively be accessed by downloading content from server to device which is the reception and storage of the subscribed content on device . In either case of streaming or downloading resources of device such as one or more of battery power memory space processing bandwidth and wireless network bandwidth are used.

Referring now to a system and method for accessing subscribed content with a mobile computing device will be described. Processing circuit may be configured to run an application configured to provide an interface to the user via display . The interface may be a web browser internet aggregator or other user interface configured to present to the user a plurality of subscribed content sources such as web sites web feeds etc. The subscribed content sources may be collected in a media guide application operable on server or device may be configured to allow the user to browse to different web pages on the internet to select subscribed content sources. The interface is configured to receive user selection of a plurality of subscribed content sources and to store them in a database on device or server .

At step processing circuit is configured to determine an availability of a memory which may be any of the types of memory discussed above with reference to memories . Memory may be internal to device or a memory card . A memory port may be configured to receive removable memory card . Step may comprise determining whether the removable memory card is present in the memory port to determine the availability of memory. Alternatively step may comprise determining whether a predetermined amount of memory is free and usable e.g. not allocated to other applications or system programs on memory or memory card to determine the availability of memory. Processing circuit may be configured to calculate the predetermined amount of memory based on size data about subscribed content to be accessed from remote server . Alternatively the predetermined amount of memory may be a user selectable value or a value stored in memory by a manufacturer service provider or enterprise technician.

At step processing circuit is configured to present to the user via display and or audible output an option for accessing the subscribed content which is based on the availability of the memory. The option may be presented before during or subsequent to the user selecting subscribed content sources and or reconfiguring subscribed content settings e.g. frequency of checking for new content frequency of downloading new content to device etc. . In one example if processing circuit determines a memory card is present and or that a sufficient amount of memory is available on memory card processing circuit is configured to present to the user the options of streaming downloading or subscribing to the subscribed content with respect to one or more or all of the subscriptions. The user may then select from among the options wherein the selection is stored in memory or on server . In another example if processing circuit determines the absence of memory card or that insufficient memory is available on memory card and or memory the user is only presented with the stream option or is presented with a set of options not including a download option. In another embodiment the user may be presented with the stream option by indicating to the user that the selected subscribed content will be streamed whereby user selection is not required to confirm the stream option. Other options for accessing subscribed content may be presented to the user some or all of which may be selectively disclosed based on memory availability such as a trickle download e.g. a download at significantly slower than a maximum download time capability of a wireless network .

At step processing circuit is configured to receive a user selection of one or more of the presented options. Processing circuit may then be configured to execute the user instructions and or forward the user instructions to server for execution. For example if a user selects a subscribe option when a source of subscribed content is selected processing circuit is configured to add the subscribed content to a local or remote database of subscriptions. If a user selects a download option when a source of subscribed content is selected a latest subscribed content may be downloaded in response to the command and or the subscribed content may be marked to download during the next publication of updated subscribed content or the next time aggregator collects updated subscribed content . If a user selects a streaming option when a source of subscribed content is selected a latest subscribed content may be streamed in response to the command and or the subscribed content may be marked to stream during the next publication of updated subscribed content or the next time aggregator collects updated subscribed content . At step processing circuit is configured to access the subscribed content at device in accordance with the user selection of the option or options.

Scheduling of aggregation and delivery to device may occur in a number of ways. In one example aggregator is operable on server which has the resources e.g. processing power power supply etc. to frequently check sources of subscribed content for updated content or recent publications e.g. every 30 seconds 10 seconds several minutes etc. . Device may send a message to aggregator indicating when aggregator should check for updates for example upon receipt of the message which may be automatically generated or generated in response to a user request periodically and without further command from device etc. Aggregator may then transmit the updated subscribed content to device in any of a number of ways. For example aggregator may immediately transmit updated subscribed content to device . This transmission may be done according to a preselected delivery option e.g. download or stream . Alternatively aggregator may immediately send a message to device which prompts the user to select whether to receive content now or defer receipt until a later time. Device may further prompt the user to select a delivery option e.g. download or stream . Alternatively processing circuit may at this time determine the availability of memory and present to the user an option based on the availability of memory as described hereinabove. Thus the step of presenting an option based on the availability of memory may occur during a user initiated session to select edit or review subscribed content and or may occur during a server initiated session which is initiated in response to the receipt of updated subscribed content periodically from time to time etc. In another alternative aggregator may be configured to only transmit content to device periodically only when predetermined search criteria are met within updated subscribed content only during a predetermined time e.g. a time of day or only in response to an approval to send message from device e.g. in embodiments in which device may be configured to check the availability or use of local resources as described below with reference to . In another example aggregator may be operable on processing circuit which checks subscribed content sources for updated content periodically from time to time etc. though this embodiment uses more power processing and network resources on device than the embodiment in which aggregator is operable on server . Further either of aggregator or may be configured to receive keywords or tags that aggregator uses to search within subscribed content and in response to a hit presents an audible and or visible alarm to the user to indicate new subscribed content meeting a keyword criteria has been identified.

It is understood that one or more of the steps described herein may be performed by server and or shared between device and server in various alternate embodiments.

Referring now to a system and method of accessing subscribed content with a mobile computing device is described according to an exemplary embodiment. At step processing circuit is configured to select one of a wireless WAN and a wireless LAN for accessing subscribed content e.g. via download stream etc. . In alternative embodiments processing circuit may be configured to select from any other wireless network or networks available and or compatible with device . At step processing circuit is configured to download or stream subscribed content using the selected wireless network. The downloading may occur in a first mode of operation and the streaming may occur in a second different mode of operation. For example if memory is unavailable processing circuit may be configured to operate in the second mode of operation to stream data. If at a later time memory card is inserted processing circuit may switch to operate in the first mode of operation to download data. As a second example processing circuit may operate in the first or second mode based on user selection. Modes may be also be determined based on the application being run or based on other criteria.

In one exemplary embodiment in response to a user selection to stream subscribed content from remote server processing circuit may be configured to select wireless LAN for communication because wireless LANs typically operate at higher communication speeds than other wireless networks.

In another exemplary embodiment processing circuit is configured to communicate over wireless LAN with remote server to receive subscribed content and if wireless LAN is or becomes unavailable processing circuit is configured to switch to communicating over wireless WAN with remote server .

In another exemplary embodiment processing circuit is configured to select the wireless network for communication with the remote server based on communication speed data stored in memory for both of the wireless networks. The communication speed data may be prestored during manufacture or by a user or from a previous communication session with the wireless network or may be measured or received from the wireless network at the time of selecting a wireless network. Alternatively or in addition price signal strength hours of operation and or other network characteristics may be used by processing circuit to select a wireless network.

In another exemplary embodiment processing circuit is configured to present indicia on display of an option to download the subscribed content and an option to stream the subscribed content to receive a user selection of one of the stream option and the download option and to store the user selection. The indicia may be a dialog box an icon a button to be clicked by a mouse or other graphical or visible indicia. The user selection may be stored on device or server and may be associated with one or more subscriber content sources. Step may then be executed to carry out the user selection.

One or more steps of the embodiments of may be combined with or added to other steps in to provide further embodiments. For example if memory card is not present in device device presents only the stream option. In response to a user selection of the stream option to stream subscribed content device selects without user input a fastest available data access type or wireless network e.g. Wi Fi if available then carrier network .

Referring now to a system and method for accessing subscribed content with a mobile computing device will be described. At step server is configured to receive a user selection of subscribed content via a data output terminal configured to communicate with device over wireless network and or . The data output terminal may be any port or connection coupled to server and configured to allow server to communicate wirelessly or via wire with a wireless access point whether directly or indirectly and or to the Internet. At step a processing circuit coupled to server may be configured to store in a memory a predetermined time to transmit subscribed content . At step processing circuit may further be configured to transmit the subscribed content to device at the predetermined time. Alternatively device may be configured to store the predetermined time and to transmit a request to server at the predetermined time for access to updated subscribed content.

The predetermined time may be selected by the user of device or via a web portal directly to server . For example a user may configure device and or server to only provide updated subscribed content to device between the hours of 1 AM and 5 AM which would avoid the transmission of data interfering with the user s operation of device . The predetermined time may represent a time of day and may be done with reference to peak off peak or other time periods defined by a carrier of wireless WAN . The predetermined time may represent a predetermined period of time e.g. every 30 minutes every 1 hour every 1 day etc .

The predetermined time may be delayed by user request to device which is subsequently communicated to server or without user input by device detecting a status of a local system resource as shown below in exemplary form with reference to and determining based on the status that synchronization or access of updated subscribed content should be delayed.

As mentioned above steps of may be combined with steps of others of the Figs. For example if device has memory card available and the user chooses to subscribe to a podcast the user may determine the time of day they want device to synchronize with server to receive any updated subscribed content. When the synchronization time arrives device will attempt to download or stream the updates over a Wi Fi network first and then via a carrier network.

According to one exemplary embodiment processing circuit may be configured to detect whether the mobile computing device is in an inactive state and to transmit the subscribed content to the mobile computing device based on the determination of whether the mobile computing device is in an inactive state. A determination of an inactive state may be made by device and or server either alone or using processing resources and or data from both device and server . Server may detect the inactive state independently or by receiving a signal from device indicating device is in an inactive state. In one example processing circuit may be configured to determine that device is in an inactive state at approximately a time when the processing circuit has completed a data synchronization process e.g. e mail contacts other personal information etc. with the mobile computing device. Processing circuit may further be configured to transmit the subscribed content after the data synchronization during a single communication session e.g. without ending a communication session established for the data synchronization . In another example processing circuit may be configured to determine that the mobile computing device is in an inactive state based on a signal from the mobile computing device indicating the absence of user input to device for a predetermined period of time. In other examples an inactive state of device may be defined by an absence of a particular application running or particular applications or a type of application running the absence of a communication session between device and one or more wireless networks whether the display of the device is actively displaying information whether the device is powered on or other activity or presence indicators.

The steps set forth in may be performed in any order and are not limited to the order in which they are presented. For example in step of storing a predetermined time may occur during a setup operation long before step of receiving a user selection of subscribed content. Alternatively both can occur during the same communication session and in any order.

Referring now to a system and method for accessing subscribed content with a mobile computing device will be described. At step processing circuit is configured to determine a status of at least one local system resource and at step to determine whether to proceed with accessing subscribed content based on the status. A local system resource may be a module component or sub unit of device such as power supply a processor radio frequency transceiver memory or other resources operable while at least a portion of device is in an ON state.

A status of the resource may be a characteristic which can change during different modes of operation of device . For example a status of power supply may indicate whether the power supply is coupled to an external power source e.g. a wall outlet external battery pack car charger etc. wherein processing circuit is configured to determine not to proceed with the accessing of the subscribed content if the power supply is not coupled to an external power source.

In another example a status of a processor may indicate the operation of an application in use by the user wherein processing circuit is configured to determine not to proceed with the accessing of the subscribed content if the application is in use by the user. An application may be in use by a user for example during a telephone call using a telephony application synchronizing mail in an e mail application browsing web sites with a web browser application playing a game with a gaming application etc. In some uses of applications radio frequency transceiver is used for wireless communication and use of said applications or active use of radio frequency transceiver may be provided as an indicia of status. According to one exemplary embodiment if device is in use at the time of a recurring download of updated subscribed content rather than share processor and or wireless network bandwidth with the user the recurring download may be delayed until full available bandwidth and system resources are available.

In another example a status of radio frequency transceiver may indicate the availability of a predetermined wireless network operating at a higher speed than another predetermined wireless network wherein processing circuit is configured to determine not to proceed with the accessing of the subscribed content if the higher speed wireless network is not available.

In another example a status of memory may indicate whether a predetermined amount of memory allocated for downloads is available wherein processing circuit is configured to determine not to proceed with the accessing of the subscribed content if the predetermined amount of memory allocated for downloads is not available. For example a download application operable on processing circuit may be configured by default to not download subscribed content if memory or has less than percent or another predetermined percentage which may be user adjustable of available memory on memory card .

The determination not to proceed with accessing subscribed content may in some embodiments comprise not scanning for or aggregating updated content during a scheduled time to scan for or aggregate data. The determination not to proceed with accessing subscribed content may occur before or during a download or stream of subscribed content.

According to an advantage of some embodiments a podcast may be a file between 50 megabytes and 100 megabytes the downloading of which would consume significant battery power memory processing bandwidth and wireless network bandwidth. Various embodiments described herein may help conserve such resources when they are needed while still accomplishing the access of subscribed data for the user.

According to some embodiments criteria for determining how and when to download subscriber content may be programmed into device and or server by a cellular network carrier and may differ from one carrier s network to another. Carriers may use one or more of these methods to reduce network traffic during hours of peak usage and move network traffic to off peak hours.

According to another embodiment processing circuit may be configured to delay downloading subscriber content until a faster wireless network is available. For example if processing circuit determines that no Wi Fi network or other wireless LAN is available rather than switch to downloading via wireless WAN processing circuit may be configured to continuously monitor for the presence of a Wi Fi network and upon detecting the presence of a Wi Fi network attempt to communicate to server via the detected Wi Fi network.

According to another exemplary embodiment device and or server may be configured to determine the number of episodes of subscribed content the user wishes to download based on one or more criteria such as a user selectable preference or default based on type of subscribed content e.g. video feed audio feed photograph feed etc. . For example for a large podcast such as a weekly news show device and or server may be configured to download only a most recent episode whereas for other subscribed content such as digital still photo feeds device and or server may be configured to download all new photos e.g. all photos not previously downloaded all photos published within a predetermined time period e.g. within the past week month year etc. etc. . Advantageously because digital still photo feeds typically use less memory or have a smaller file size device may have sufficient memory to download more than just the most recent episode and a user likely wishes to view more than just the most recent episode.

According to another embodiment processing circuit may be configured to delay downloading subscriber content if power supply is below a predetermined amount of available power e.g. less than a predetermined percentage of battery power . Processing circuit may further be configured to calculate an estimated amount of power required to download a web feed based on the size of the web feed the speed of the wireless network to be used and or the power consumption of the wireless network to be used. If the estimated amount of power is greater than or within a threshold of the amount of power remaining in power supply processing circuit may be configured to delay downloading updated subscriber content. The predetermined amount of available power may be user selectable or configured by a carrier service professional or enterprise technician.

With reference to the disclosure and claims use of the phrase based on means based at least in part on and use of the term a an or one means one or more or at least one. Further any of the steps of any of the methods disclosed herein may be combined with any of the other steps and or rearranged with other steps in alternative embodiments. Specifically various embodiments may make use of different combinations of parts or all of the methods disclosed herein.

While the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the Figs. and described above are presently exemplary it should be understood that these embodiments are offered by way of example only. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to a particular embodiment but extends to various modifications that nevertheless fall within the scope of the appended claims.

