---

title: Method for measuring the health of solid rocket propellant using an embedded sensor
abstract: The invented method for measuring the health of a solid rocket propellant includes embedding at least one piezoelectric capacitance sensor in the propellant, where the capacitance of the sensor is a function of a modulus of the propellant, and where the position is selected to measure manifestations of stress failure as a consequence of changes in the shear modulus. The capacitance of the sensor is measured at a predetermined frequency. The capacitance of the piezoelectric capacitance sensor is converted into a digital representation which is then converted into the digital representation of a modulus (or gradient modulus). In subsequent analysis, the modulus (or gradient of the modulus) is correlated to the health of the solid rocket propellant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07652488&OS=07652488&RS=07652488
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07652488
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070426
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to sensors and in particular to a nondestructive method of utilizing piezoelectric sensors to determine in situ the health of solid rocket propellants.

There is a need for a method of measuring the health of solid rocket propellant using an embedded sensor for self sensing ordnance. The need is particularly acute with regard to solid rocket motors since it is known that aging of propellant can lead to significant degradation in weapon performance and possibly catastrophic failure. The need correlates with the military requirements that mandate future tactical missiles be kept for extended periods of time on board ship without periodic land based inspections. A particularly facile method of inspection would be one where the solid rocket missiles have a solid rocket motor with a propellant that has a method of self sensing the health of the propellant.

Classical approaches used to predict and detect material degradation have been to develop aging models for predicting the state of a material given an assumed or measured environmental history and the use of non destructive testing methods such as ultrasound and X rays. Both approaches as currently practiced are inadequate to meet the needs of a real time self sensing health monitoring system. Thus in recent years efforts have been devoted to investigate an entirely new approach to meet the goal of self sensing ordnance the use of embedded sensors.

The use of embedded sensors is potentially a better analytical technique for several reasons. A sensor embedded in the propellant inside a weapon versus an external technique that is obstructed by a thick metallic housing is in direct contact with the energetic material and thus in a better position to detect subtle changes in properties. An embedded sensor is always present in the weapon and thus the weapon s health can always be queried thus meeting the goal of making the ordnance self sensing.

Several types of embedded sensors are being investigated in the solid rocket motor community. Bond line sensors are small pressure sensors used to measure the stress between the propellant and case. The sensors are used to detect the perturbation in the stress field due to the presence of damage. Difficulties with this method are as follows. The bond line sensor requires sophisticated finite element modeling and analysis to characterize the damage from the measured signals. The analysis is further complicated by the unknown change in material properties due to aging leading to problems in data interpretation. Bond line sensors are difficult to install as they need to be cast into the rocket motor and they have relatively high cost on the order of 250 per sensor. A second type of sensor is an optical fiber strain sensor. Optical fiber strain sensors are used in a similar manner to bond line sensors in that they detect changes in the strain field due to the presence of damage. While optical fiber sensors can be placed in the bore and thus can be installed after the motor is cast the difficulty in interpreting the signals is a significant challenge.

A weakness with both these sensors is that they do not provide an unambiguous indication of the system s health and significant analysis is needed to interpret the results.

What is needed is a reliable measure of the health of the solid rocket propellant through the use of an embedded sensor where the method provides an unambiguous measure of material state where the method employs an embedded sensor that is relatively inexpensive.

The invention is a method of determining the health of solid rocket propellants using an embedded piezoelectric capacitance sensor. In contrast to prior methods using in situ sensors which provide a measure of only the stress or only strain the invention measures the modulus at potentially multiple locations. By measuring the modulus at multiple locations using multiple sensors one can determine gradients in modulus. The measurements can be made using a single integrated circuit interrogator which has the capability of determining the capacitance of multiple sensors. The capacitance of the sensors is then correlated to a modulus. Both ceramic and polymeric film piezoelectric sensors have a reduction in capacitance as material in intimate contact with the sensor stiffens e.g. the modulus increases . The ceramic piezoelectric sensors are generally comprised of lead zirconate titanate PZT . Piezoceramics are very efficient and are thermally stable but have a poor mechanical impedance match to propellant and are brittle. The polymeric sensor may be comprised of PVDF polyvinylidene fluoride or copolymers thereof. The PVDF piezoelectric sensors generally have a film of PVDF that is formed by stretching it below the melting point of the PVDF. The stretching may be performed in the presence of a very high electric field thereby imparting crystallinity and highly orienting the C F polymeric material under the influence of the electric field. The PVDF film often has an electrically conductive coating on one or both sides where the conductive coating is for example selected from silver nickel aluminum copper gold or other conductive alloys. The PVDF crystalline film is a piezoelectric material and a dielectric material that is excellent for forming capacitors. While the piezoelectric polymer has a better impedance match with propellant and has the advantage of being flexible it has the weakness of relatively poor thermal stability and therefore is unsuitable if during the embedding process the molten cast propellant is hot as the heat can have a deleterious effect on the polymer i.e. the polymer relaxes . It should be noted that measuring the electrical impedance of the sensor is also of use and the word capacitance is used to refer to electrical impedance.

The method for nondestructively remotely measuring the health of an energetic material includes embedding at least one piezoelectric capacitance sensor in the energetic material wherein the capacitance of the sensor is a function of a modulus of the energetic material periodically measuring the capacitance of the piezoelectric capacitance sensor converting the measurement of the capacitance into a digital representation communicating the digital representation to a remote communication device relating the digital representation to modulus and correlating the modulus to the health of the energetic material.

The invention is a method and related apparatus for nondestructively remotely measuring the health of an energetic material where the energetic material is a solid rocket propellant. The invented method recognizes that as propellants and the like develop health issues the materials become harder i.e. shear modulus increases and there can be propellant insulater debonding and bore cracking. Cracks and debonding can induce failure of the rocket upon ignition. In addition some propellants may become softer with age leading to slump unacceptable permanent deformation of the propellant. Motors are chemically active throughout their entire lives leading to issues of motor aging perhaps far down the road. A major cause of hardening in propellants over time is oxidative cross linking. The introduction of moisture into the system may also be extremely destructive to material properties in both the bulk materials and at the interfaces. There are two general classes of flaws in the PLI system. The first is a void or inclusion generally located in the bulk propellant. The second is a fracture or debond. Voids in propellant often occur as a result of insufficient settling of the propellant during the casting process. Trapped air bubbles are not fully eliminated and small voids are formed which contain no propellant. If small enough these small voids are not generally of great concern. However if the voids are proximate to an interface or other high stress or strain region then these small voids may contribute to the formation of cracks. Inclusions are objects that inappropriately end up in the propellant. Inclusions may be large pieces of propellant ingredients or other motor materials but also include anomalous objects. Notable inclusions that have appeared in motors include lead shot a crumpled paper cup and a wrench. Regardless of the source these objects are often poorly bonded to the propellant and cause perturbations to the stress strain field of the motor in a similar fashion as voids. If the item is large enough or is likely not to be fully consumed in the motor then the item can damage the housing and the nozzle. Depending on the composition of the inclusion the combustion process in the region can be significantly changed. In some cases materials such as fine metal wires are placed in the propellant to increase the burning rate by augmenting thermal conduction and providing a flame path.

Cracks can occur throughout the motor although they are often seen in the bore particularly in motors that have undergone thermal cycling. When a crack occurs there are two scenarios. In the first case when the combustion surface reaches the crack the flame speed exceeds the crack propagation velocity. In this situation the crack tip is blunted by the burning and does not propagate so the concern is simply the increase in pressure of the motor due to additional burning surface area. If the crack area is small compared to the surface area of the motor the pressure will not be significantly increased and this will not a major issue. In the case that the crack propagation speed is greater than that of the flame the crack will propagate. In this situation burning surface is exposed deeper in the motor before it was expected. Since the insulation thickness is determined by the time of exposure to the hot gases with an appropriate factor of safety early exposure can overwhelm the insulation heating the housing and creating an opportunity for failure. Cracks also occur in the propellant near the propellant liner interface. These cracks compound the problem as not only is there hot gas near the wall but if the crack propagates it detaches the motor grain from the bonding surface. Debonds are similar to the cracks described above but result from insufficient or incomplete bonding between two of the propellant liner insulator materials. As with cracks the concerns are augmented burning near the housing wall and the structural impact of the decreased bonding.

In any case the degree of degradation in the propellant can be detected by a change in capacitance as the previously enumerated symptoms are generally manifestations of stress failure as a consequence of changes in the shear modulus. illustrates the capability of PVDF piezoelectric sensor to detect an increase in stiffness. As the surrounding material becomes stiffens with time there is a decrease in capacitance. In the illustration the increase in stiffness i.e. modulus is due to cross linking and is a illustrative of the measurement capabilities of piezoelectric sensors. The historical data and auxiliary test data such as X ray data should be factored into the installation of the embedded sensors.

Deciding on the position of the sensors depends on whether they will be used mainly for determination of modulus or damage. The two typically correlate but can vary in degree. If the primary use is to determine modulus then the sensors are placed in a low stress area so that it will be unlikely that the volume of material surrounding the sensor will contain damage. Example areas would be in locations far from the bulb tip stress reliefs. If the primary use will be to determine whether damage is present damaged material also can be considered as less stiff material than the sensors should be placed near areas where damage is expected to occur such as near bulb tip stress reliefs and the propellant liner interface.

Monolithic sensors can be used to generate both normal and tangential motion. A sensor with a composite construction also allows both types. As propellants are very energetic materials the piezoelectric sensor is selected to develop very little heat to minimize the possibility of accidental ignition. A rough order of magnitude calculation shows that the temperature rise due to powering the sensor is minimal. Assume that the area of sensor is 1 mm the capacitance of sensor is 0.32 nf the excitation voltage is 10 mv the frequency of excitation is 32 KHz the volume of material surrounding sensor is 10cm having a mass of 1 mg and heat capacity of propellant of 0.5 cal g C. then the power dissipated by the sensor is about 0.2 microwatt and the temperature rise in the propellant surrounding the sensor would thus be about 3 10 C. sec. This temperature is within a large margin of safety.

The invented method further discloses how energy is provided for the sensor and the support electrical components. The method also discloses how capacitance is measured and how the measured capacitance is communicated from the embedded sensor to a monitoring system such as ATOS which is an advanced technology ordnance surveillance system.

The invented method for measuring the health of a solid rocket propellant includes the steps of embedding at least one piezoelectric capacitance sensor in the propellant where the capacitance of the sensor is a function of a modulus of the propellant and where the position is determined by the previously enumerated considerations. The sensor s capacitance is measured at a predetermined frequency. The capacitance of the piezoelectric capacitance sensor is converted into a digital representation which is communicated to a remote device that converts the digital representation to a modulus or gradient in modulus gradient when multiple sensors are used . In subsequent analysis the modulus or gradient in modulus is correlated to the health of the solid rocket propellant. The piezoelectric capacitance sensor includes one sensor or a plurality of sensors embedded in the energetic material where individual sensors can be queried. As illustrated in the sensors are electrically attached to an integrated circuit where the integrated circuit is in communication with an microcontroller which records and processes the information. The sensors as illustrated are embedded in the propellant of rocket having a motor and a guidance section . The motor is separated from the guidance section by bulkhead . A thick metallic housing encases the propellant which has a substantially annular burning bore .

Examples of a single chip capacitance analog to digital converters are AD7745 single input or AD7746 dual input chips which are products of Analog Devices Inc. AD7745 AD7746 are high resolution capacitance to digital converters CDC . The capacitance to be measured is connected directly to a sensor. The CDC architecture features inherent high resolution 24 bit no missing codes up to 21 bit effective resolution high linearity 0.01 and high accuracy. The capacitance input range is 4 pF changing while it can accept up to 17 pF common mode capacitance not changing which can be balanced by a programmable on chip digital to capacitance converter CAPDAC . The AD7745 chip has one capacitance input channel while the AD7746 chip has two channels. Each channel can be configured as single ended or differential. The CDCs interrogators are designed for floating capacitive sensors. The chips have an on chip temperature sensor with a resolution of 0.1 C. and accuracy of 2 C. The chips also have an on chip voltage reference and an on chip clock generator and these eliminate the need for any external components in capacitive sensor applications. The chips have a standard voltage input which together with the differential reference input allows easy interface to an external temperature sensor such as an RTD a thermistor or a diode. The CDCs can operate with a single power supply from 2.7 V to 5.25 V. Alternatively a series of sensors can be interrogated using a CDC such as AD7142 which can sample up to 14 sensors. The AD7142 which is also a product of Analog Devices Inc is an integrated capacitance to digital converter with on chip environmental calibration for use in systems requiring a novel user input method. Although the sensor excitation frequency of the AD7142 is fixed the resonance frequency of the sensors may be tailored to match this frequency if necessary. The AD7142 CDC has 14 inputs channeled through a switch matrix to a 16 bit 250 kHz sigma delta capacitance to digital converter. The CDC is capable of sensing changes in the capacitance of the external sensors and uses this information to register a sensor activation. The AD7142 has on chip calibration logic to account for changes in the ambient environment. Another integrated circuit interrogator is the AD5933 which measures the electrical impedance of the sensor thus providing phase information in addition to capacitance. An alternative method for measuring capacitance includes placing each sensor in a voltage divider configuration with a fixed resistor. Measuring the voltage across the resistor to provide a measure of both the capacitance through the impedance capacitance relationship for a capacitor and the current through the sensor. Accordingly the current voltage relationship may be obtained and of use.

As illustrated in the interrogator is in communication with a digital to optical converter which generally includes a microcontroller. The digital to optical converter converts the digital representation into an optical signal which is transmitted through a fiber optic cable to an optical to digital converter located in the guidance section of the rocket . Information is uploaded to an RFID device which is a scannable member of ATOS advanced technology ordnance surveillance system . As illustrated in the optical fiber can additionally provide a non electrical means of transmitting power through the innards of the rocket motor . The optical to digital converter can send enough light power through the optical fiber to power the digital to optical converter and the CDC interrogator . The optical fiber interfaces an optical to voltage converter .

The method can employ a piezoelectric capacitance sensor selected from the group consisting of a piezoceramic sensor or a piezoelectric polymer sensor. Generally the piezoelectric polymer sensor is comprised of piezoelectric PVDF polymer copolymer or a combination thereof. Generally the piezoceramic sensor is comprised of lead zirconate titanate.

The method for nondestructively remotely measuring the health of propellant in a solid rocket motor includes the steps of providing an electronically integrated combination of piezoelectric capacitive sensors and communication components in a self contained pill sized unit where the sensors are in electrical communication through a protective housing with the communication components. The communication components include a capacitance to digital converter a low power microcontroller an RF communication chip and a battery. The method further includes positioning the self contained pill sized unit in a mold for the solid rocket propellant and casting the solid rocket propellant. The process further consists of periodically measuring the capacitance of each of the piezoelectric capacitance sensors converting the measurement of the capacitance into a digital representation communicating the digital representation to a remote device relating the digital representation to modulus or gradient modulus and correlating the modulus or gradient modulus to the health of the propellant. The communication of queries in an exemplary embodiment is effected via an RF communication chip which is a member of an advanced technology ordnance surveillance system ATOS . A stated purpose of the ATOS is to locate and monitor the health of munitions.

To facilitate exact positioning of the sensors the rocket motor casing can be pre fitted with scaffolding that holds the sensors prior to casting the propellant. This method includes providing a rocket motor housing with a scaffolding attaching at least one piezoelectric capacitance sensor to the scaffolding casting the propellant therein forming a rocket motor with an annular bore where the rocket motor has at least one piezoelectric capacitance sensor embedded in solidified propellant connecting at least one piezoelectric capacitance sensor to a capacitance to digital converter such as an interrogator positioned near the annular bore of the motor interfacing a microcontroller having a digital to optical converter with the capacitance to digital converter and with an optical fiber where the optical fiber provides both communication and power extending a length of the optical fiber through the annular bore into the guidance section of the rocket and interfacing the optical fiber to a communication device. In an exemplary embodiment the communication device is an active RFID which is a scannable member of the advanced technology ordnance surveillance system. In an exemplary embodiment the scaffolding is a compliant material e.g. rubber and has the capability of attaching and positioning multiple sensors. The capacitance of individual sensors can be queried using an interrogator.

Another method of installing the health monitoring system is by simply dropping the pill into the motor as it is being cast. The position can later be determined using X rays.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

