---

title: Method and apparatus for telephonically accessing and navigating the internet
abstract: A method for accessing and browsing the internet through the use of a telephone and the associated DTMF signals is disclosed. The preferred embodiment provides a system that converts the information content of a web page from text to speech (voice signals), signals the hyperlink selections of a web page in an audio manner, and allows selection of the hyperlinks through the use of DTMF signals generated from a telephone keypad. Upon receiving a DTMF signal corresponding to a hyperlink, the corresponding web page is fetched and again delivered to the user via one of the available delivery methods such as voice, fax-on-demand, electronic mail, or regular mail.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08139728&OS=08139728&RS=08139728
owner: Ben Franklin Patent Holding LLC
number: 08139728
owner_city: Los Altos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070611
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 060 610 filed Jan. 30 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 231 020 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 205 269 filed Dec. 4 1998 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 366 650 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 609 699 filed Mar. 1 1996 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 953 392.

A Microfiche Appendix conforming to the standards set forth in 37 CFR 1.96 c 2 is attached to the parent application Ser. No. 08 609 669 and is hereby incorporated by reference. The Microfiche Appendix includes four microfiche including an Appendix A microfiche an Appendix B microfiche an Appendix C microfiche and an Appendix D microfiche. The Appendix A microfiche includes nine frames. The Appendix B microfiche includes four frames. The Appendix C microfiche includes four frames. The Appendix D microfiche includes 29 frames.

The present invention relates generally to methods for retrieving information from an interconnected network and for accessing and delivering the retrieved information to a user and more particularly a method for accessing and retrieving information from an interconnected network such as the internet via a telephone in response to the user s request and for delivering the information via voice fax on demand e mail and other means to the user.

Under the conventional method of accessing information on an interconnected network such as the internet the user is required to have a certain amount of computer software and hardware and is expected to have a certain level of computer expertise before the user can successfully access or browse a wide range of information now available on the internet. If the user does not have the necessary hardware and the appropriate software to direct the computer to establish a connection to the internet via a modem or a direct connection to the internet the user would then have no other means available to him or her for accessing the internet.

Given the amount of information now readily available on the internet having the ability to access the internet becomes a matter of convenience as well as a matter of having access to an invaluable information source.

Additionally from a company or an organization point of view it is advantageous to direct customers to a centralized information database and thereby necessitating the maintenance of only one database rather than multiple databases.

The software and hardware requirement for accessing the internet creates a barrier for most people to take advantages of this information source. Prior art systems overcome this problem by providing a telephone fax on demand system where a user uses a telephone to dial into a company s web page and directs the system to fax the web page back to the user. However the manner in operating this type of system is tedious and time consuming. In order for the user to access a hyperlink on the web page the first web page needs to be faxed back to the user with the hyperlinks numerically annotated for reference. The user then calls a second time or waits for the first fax page to arrive on another line to access subsequent web pages numerically using the now numbered hyperlinks.

It is thus clear that a better system is needed to access and browse the internet in an inexpensive and efficient manner.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a method for accessing and browsing the internet through the use of a telephone.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a method for accessing and browsing the internet by converting the information content of a web page to voice format.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a method for signaling the user in an audio manner the hyperlink selections in a web page.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a method for accessing and browsing the internet where the information content of a web page may be provided to the user via voice format fax on demand e mail or regular mail.

Briefly a method for accessing and browsing the internet through the use of a telephone is disclosed. The preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a method that comprises receiving a first request transmitted from a telephone and transmitting a first response to the telephone the first response comprising voice signals. The first request comprises data signals that correspond to a first unique address of a first data file residing on the computer network. The first data file comprises a first hyperlink. The voice signals of the first response correspond to text stored in the first data file. The method further comprises generating the voice signals that correspond to the text stored in the first data file. The method further comprises a generating predetermined signals preceding the first hyperlink to indicate the first hyperlink.

An advantage of the present invention is that it provides a method for accessing and browsing the internet through the use of a telephone.

Another advantage of the present invention is that it provides a method for accessing and browsing the internet by converting the information content of a web page to voice format.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is that it provides a method for signaling the user in an audio manner the hyperlink selections in a web page.

Yet another advantage of the present invention is that it provides a method for accessing and browsing the internet where the information content of a web page may be provided to the user via voice format fax on demand e mail or regular mail.

These and other objects and advantages of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after having read the following illustrations and detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

Referring to the preferred embodiment of the present invention is operated by a caller using a telephone to dial into a server having telephonic interfacing software and hardware. The server provides audio directions to the caller and provides a number of options which may be selected by the corresponding DTMF tones generated through the use of a telephone keypad. By pressing a number on the keypad corresponding to the desired option the caller selects one of the several available options. The server then receives the DTMF tone converts the tone to a corresponding DTMF code identifies the option corresponding to the code and executes the action corresponding to the selected option. In this manner the caller is able to direct the server to take certain available actions.

One of the available actions is to direct a voice browser to navigate the internet . By selecting the voice browser the caller is provided with an audio readback of a default web page where the available links to other web pages are read back to the user and are indicated by a special audio signal such as a short duration tone signal a beep a bong sound etc.

For example referring to Appendix D illustrating a listing of the code of the preferred embodiment as described below instructions starting from page 13 of Appendix D are provided to direct a user to navigate through available documents and the hyperlinks therein. By repetitively selecting documents and the hyperlinks contained therein the user can navigate the entire internet.

To operate the preferred embodiment of the present invention a touch tone phone and the phone number to access a server are all that is required.

The voice browser provides a series of audio menus to guide the caller to retrieve documents or web pages from the internet. Several options are provided at each menu and the caller may make a selection by pressing the corresponding key s on the telephone. The opening menu may request a password before allowing the caller to access the system.

For inputs requiring specific spelling of the information being entered e.g. e mail address name street address etc. each character can be defined by pressing a two key combination. The first key indicates the key where the letter appears and the second key indicates the position it occurs on that key. For example the letter A is defined as 21 B is defined as 22 C is defined as 23 D is defined as 31 etc. However the letters Q and Z are not defined on a telephone keypad and they may be assigned by special two key combinations. In the preferred embodiment the letter Q is defined as 17 and the letter Z is defined as 19. Other special characters may be assigned as well. For example the sign is defined as 12 the   character is defined as 18 the . period is defined as 13 and a space is defined as 11.

The actual interface between the voice browser and the telephony interfacing hardware is expected to vary according to the implementation. There are two issues involved here. One issue involves interface control namely how the software commands are accepted by the interface and how errors or exceptions are signaled. The other issue involves audio encoding how audio e.g. voice data is represented at the interface. For example the Rockwell chip set utilizes a Hayes compatible command set which is extended for fax and voice operations and audio data is encoded in the Adaptive Differential Pulse Coded Modulation ADPCM format. Under a Unix system ioctl commands may be used to manipulate the audio interface. There may be another protocol for ISDN lines as well.

Referring to the voice browser is software driven and is composed of several cooperating subsystems. From the main engine depending on the selection made or the scheduling algorithm either the Call Menu Script Interpreter or the document delivery subsystem may be activated.

The Call Menu Script Interpreter CMSI guides a caller through a series of call menus and plays voice segments of retrieved web pages or documents to the caller. It responds to the caller s touch tone selection and drives the HTree Generator Web Browser . The task is accomplished by first directing the web browser to retrieve the desired web page s from the internet. The HTree Generator then converts the retrieved web page into an HTree which is a data structure storing web page data in a particular format conducive for conversion into voice format. The CMSI then traverses the HTree sending HTree segments to the Voice Data Management Subsystem Voice DMS . The Voice DMS contains pre recorded texts or text strings. For the texts or text strings not in the Voice DMS a text to speech engine is provided to convert the text to speech. The information content of the web page is then delivered to the caller in the voice format. Optionally the web page can also be delivered to the caller in other available methods or it can be marked as a document request job for later processing. If the caller is calling from a phone line connected to a fax machine the web page can be immediately delivered to the caller via the fax machine.

The web browser of the preferred embodiment is a general web browser modified to interface with the HTree Generator and to access the internet . The web page or documents that may be readily accessed by the caller are indexed by document ID title or Universal Resource Locator URL and stored in a database.

The document delivery subsystem responds to the several available methods for delivering the web page to the caller. These methods include delivery via fax electronic mail and regular postal mail. The document delivery subsystem also may directly retrieve a web page as selected by a caller and deliver the information to the caller via one of the available delivery methods.

In the case of delivery by fax the documents may be directly retrieved by a Fax Data Management Subsystem Fax DMS where the web pages in the HTML format may be converted to the PostScript format and then from the PostScript format to TIFF image format.

In the case of delivery by e mail documents may be directly retrieved by an E Mail Data Management Subsystem where web pages in the HTML format may be converted to straight ASCII text or to the PostScript format.

The Call Menu Script Interpreter CMSI guides the caller through a series of call menus via voice prompts and plays voice segments of a retrieved web page to the caller. The caller interacts with the CMSI by generating DTMF tones from the caller s touch tone keypad. The DTMF tones are converted into ASCII text usually by the telephony interface hardware. In one embodiment the conversion from DTMF tones to ASCII text is performed by a voice modem.

In order to carry out all of the tasks the CMSI is implemented utilizing a set of software registers and instructions. A software register may be readable writable markable or nav writable where a nav writable register allows the navigational mechanism of the browser to write to it. Registers which can be written by the DTMF converted ASCII text are referred to as caller writable registers. These registers include the DocID FaxNum ExtNum ExtName Passwd Userid and Selection registers. Registers for which the ASCII text can be converted into voice are termed caller readable registers . These registers include the DocId FaxNum ExtNum ExtName and Title registers. Markable registers include the DocId and URL registers. The nav writable registers include the DocId URL Title MarkedNumDoc MaxNumDoc and MaxRepeatInput registers.

There is also an instruction set associated with the registers. There are four basic categories of instructions Execution Control instructions Caller Register instructions Audio Output instructions and Miscellaneous instructions. Some of the more basic instructions are the Play instruction which plays the content of a register a prompt or a web page the Get instruction which gets the DTMF input into a register the Mark instruction which marks a page or document according to a URL or DocId the Goto instruction which unconditionally jumps to a different location in the script and the Selection instruction which jumps if a given register matches a given DTMF string. Appendix A attached herein explains each of the registers and instructions. The preferred embodiment is not limited to the listed registers and instructions in Appendix A. New instructions and or registers can be readily added to accommodate new features or functionalities.

As the caller navigates through the web a URL list is kept. A maximum size limit is imposed on the URL list where a First In First Out system is maintained. Additionally each URL entry in the URL list may have an associated HTree. There is an HTree cache for all the HTree entries. For the HTree cache if there is a limitation in size the least recently used entry is deleted first.

The HTree Generator Web Browser hereinafter HTree Generator is the Voice Browser s agent for accessing the World Wide Web. It is similar to a GUI based web browser except that the user interface is replaced by an audio interface residing within the CMSI. The HTree Generator is driven by the CMSI. Referring to the HTree Generator is generally comprised of a generator interface component an HTree Converter and a web browser . The CMSI sends a URL to the HTree Generator . The generator interface receives the URL and sends the URL to the web browser to retrieve the web page or document via one of the several available methods e.g. FTP and HTTP . The HTree Converter converts the retrieved web page document into an HTree and the HTree is sent to the CMSI. Thus regardless of the format of the retrieve document it can be converted into HTree format for processing.

At its highest level an HTree contains a series of HTree sentences. An HTree sentence can comprise several HTree segments which when strung together forms a complete sentence in the language of choice including English and Spanish. The top level structure represented by the symbol  HTree represents a given web page where the structure may include the URL of the page its title and it may include a number of linked lists. Appendix B attached herein provides a full explanation of the HTree structure.

The Voice Data Management Subsystem Voice DMS provides audio segments to the CMSI for the given text segments. Referring to the main interface between the Voice DMS and the CMSI is the voice interface . The voice interface receives a text string from the CMSI and passes it to the Voice database to retrieve the corresponding digitally encoded voice pattern. The voice interface then returns the encoded voice pattern to the CMSI. If the voice interface does not find the text string in the Voice database it will send the text string to the Text To Speech subsystem to generate the digitally encoded voice pattern for that text string. The generated voice pattern is passed to the voice interface to pass to the CMSI. Whenever the Text To Speech subsystem generates a voice pattern for a text string the text string and the generated voice pattern is passed to the Voice database and stored for future reference.

Some of the voice interface s functions for driving the application program interface API include voiceopen voiceget and voiceclose. The voiceopen function creates a voice handle for a given URL that enables the CMSI to keep track of the data during a session. The voiceget operation uses the voice handle to retrieve a voice pattern. The voiceclose function simply closes the interface associated with a voice handle.

Commonly used text strings may be recorded with human voice. A method of inputting text strings and associated human voice into the voice database involves the using of a voice teleprompter and input interface hardware . Some of the capabilities that the teleprompter include Play Start Stop and Record. The voice teleprompter receives an HTree as input and displays HTree segments on the teleprompter . A person whose voice is being recorded would read the text strings as displayed by the teleprompter and use the input interface hardware to input his or her voice. Once the recording is satisfactory the teleprompter sends the recording along with the text string to the voice interface for storage into the voice database .

The Document Delivery Subsystem provides a method for the caller to request a document or a web page to be delivered via one of the available delivery methods such as delivery via fax via e mail or via regular postal service.

In delivering a document or web page via e mail the document or web page may be formatted for ASCII a selected word processing program format or another available format. In delivering a document or web page via regular postal mail the system will ask for the caller s name and address if it is not already in a caller information database.

In delivering a document or web page via fax once the TIFF files for all the requested documents have been retrieved or received the files are concatenated into one file and queued for transmission. The fax can be sent to the caller right away if the caller has another phone line connected to a fax machine.

The document delivery subsystem operates like a queue where the queue is periodically checked to see if there are any pending jobs. If there is a pending job a scheduling file that contains the time for delivery the method of delivery and the file for delivery for each job is checked. If the transmission attempt is unsuccessful the job will be rescheduled for transmission at a later time. There is a limit on the number of retries before the system administrator is notified. Appendix C attached herein provides the specific details for the document delivery subsystem.

The Fax Data Management Subsystem Fax DMS interacts with the CMSI and Document Delivery Subsystem through an interface called the fax interface. Referring to the fax interface receives a URL and returns a TIFF formatted file . The fax interface searches the Fax database for the corresponding TIFF file for the given URL. If a TIFF file is found the fax interface retrieves the file and returns it to the requesting subsystem. If the requested file is not found in the Fax database the fax interface sends the URL to a URL To TIFF convertor . The TIFF converter invokes a GUI browser to retrieve the web page or document if it has not already been retrieved and uses the browser to convert the web page or document into a PostScript formatted file . The PostScript formatted file is then passed to a PostScript interpreter which creates a TIFF file from the PostScript file. The TIFF file is then passed back to the fax interface and or a fax database . Fax images can also be directly imported into the fax database through the use of a fax machine which creates an image capture file for import into the fax database. The image capture file ensures the quality of an image and may compare favorably against TIFF formatted images.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of the presently preferred embodiment it is to be understood that such disclosure is not to be interpreted as limiting. Various alterations and modifications will no doubt become apparent to those skilled in the art after reading the above disclosure. Accordingly it is intended that the appended claims be interpreted as covering all alterations and modifications as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

