---

title: Automatic set up for editing a web site
abstract: A system and method is disclosed for automatically setting up a Web site for editing. One embodiment of such a system and method may comprise selecting a common file transfer path from a plurality of common file transfer paths, generating a test file, writing the test file to a storing computer through the file transfer server using the selected common file transfer path, requesting the test file from a Web server hosting the Web site, determining the common file transfer path is valid when the test file is received from the Web server responsive to the requesting, and selecting another common file transfer path from the plurality of common file transfer paths when the test file is not received from the Web server, wherein the method is repeated from the generating step using another common file transfer path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07877488&OS=07877488&RS=07877488
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 07877488
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070820
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 689 870 entitled AUTOMATIC SET UP FOR EDITING A WEB SITE the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. The present application is related to co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 690 980 entitled CONTENT RESTRICTED EDITING U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 690 214 entitled WEB SITE MANAGEMENT LIFECYCLE and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 689 860 entitled CROSS PROTOCOL URL MAPPING the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates in general to Web development systems and more specifically to an automatic set up for editing a Web site.

Companies typically use the World Wide Web to disseminate information both internally to employees and contractors and externally to customers and business partners. This information is usually generated by subject matter experts SMEs who are typically people with expertise in the information domain but who are not usually technically skilled. In order to publish this information to the Web or edit the existing information already on a company Internet or Intranet Web site SMEs typically work with technically skilled Web developers who generally combine Web coding or computer programming skills and graphics design skills. Skilled Web developers are an expensive resource. Moreover Web developers may divide the coding and graphics arts expertise into multiple people.

Web sites generally comprise a Web server that serves the visual and data content to the user s browser many times in a format such as hypertext markup language HTML and a file transfer server that provides read and write access to the files that make up the visual and data content of the Web sites. While Web servers and file transfer servers are conceptualized as separate and independent machines Web servers and file transfer servers are typically only software applications often times running on the same computer. The underlying Web files are usually stored in memory or storage accessible by the computer and the Web server and file transfer server applications interact with those files in different ways. Web servers typically allow read only access to the Web files compared to the read write access allowed by the file transfer servers. Because the file transfer server allows read write access to Web files general users are not typically given access to the file transfer server because changing files through the file transfer server will change how the Web pages are served through the Web server to the accessing browsers. Instead file transfer server access is generally limited to Web developers or those who have some authority over the Web content. File transfer servers typically run a specific transfer protocol such as file transfer protocol FTP secure FTP SFTP or the like. Additionally the file transfer server may be set up on a local area network LAN or the like. For purposes of this application file transfer servers will be referred to as FTP servers even though it is not limited to running only FTP protocol.

Web development environments and development tools exist to assist the developers both retrieve and edit the underlying files that make up the Web pages. In order to access the Web files on the storing computer through the FTP server a Web designer or developer is generally prompted by the server access application to provide the FTP host name the FTP login the FTP password and the FTP path. While the FTP host login and password are usually the pieces of information that will get the user onto the FTP server without the FTP path a user will not likely find the location through which the FTP server accesses the underlying Web files on the computer. For most experienced designers or developers all of this information is relatively easy to know and or obtain. A novice or non technical user may know the FTP host name login and password but would generally not know the FTP path and without the path the FTP server will generally not allow access to the appropriate file locations. One solution for such novice or non technical persons is to track down an information technology IT professional or other computer professional to obtain that information. Another solution is to simply hire an experienced designer to make the desired changes to the Web site. However each of these current solutions comes at a cost of time and money sometimes just to make a few minor changes or revisions to the Web site.

One representative embodiment of the present invention is related to a system and method for automatically setting up a Web site for editing by a Web development environment. The development environment asks the user to supply the file transfer server host name login and password in order to be able to access and log into the file transfer server. The development environment attempts to discover the Web server root directory name or path by heuristically attempting to write test or sample files to the file transfer server using a list or database of commonly used file transfer path or root directory names. Each time a sample file is written to a specific root directory the development environment make a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP request to the Web server hosting the target Web site to view the sample file. If the file transfer path or root directory name used was correct the Web server will return a read only copy the correct file to the browser at the computer where the development environment is being run. However if the path or directory name used was not correct either an error message or a different file will be returned to the browser. The development environment recognizes this incorrect file or error message and uses the next available file transfer path or root directory name on the list. Each available common path or directory name is attempted until either the correct path or root directory is found or the web development environment runs out of common names. When no more names are available the user interface of the development environment resorts to requesting the correct path or root directory name from the user.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention.

Web site maintenance is typically a time consuming and costly process. Even where small changes to the content of Web pages are made development professionals typically are required to implement the changes due to their specific knowledge of the Web server FTP server systems and in the interest of preserving the format and design of the Web sites that they have spent considerable effort designing and implementing. A new technology developed by MACROMEDIA INC. and described in co pending commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 690 214 entitled WEB SITE MANAGEMENT LIFECYCLE allows non technical users to browse to a particular Web site or Web page in which the content is to be edited deleted added click on a button to edit that Web page after which the system seamlessly presents the editable file in the same visual window to the user who may then edit the Web file in the same screen and then click on a publish button after which the system seamlessly stores the underlying now edited Web file back into the storing computer s memory or accessible storage media through the FTP server along with all of the necessary dependent files in the appropriate places on the storing computer system. This process generally occurs without the necessity that the user know the correct FTP server file transfer root directory name or the relationship between the Web server and the FTP server file systems. One problem in implementing this Web site management lifecycle is the discovery of the FTP server root directory name that points to the location of the Web files on the storing computer s memory.

Development environment maintains database in which a list of standard or common FTP path names is stored. Development environment generates a test file using random name generator and random content generator . FTP controller then assembles the randomly created file and file name and uses the first standard FTP path name from database to attempt to write the test file to storing computer or storage device through FTP server using communication interface . FTP controller uses the other user provided information along with standard FTP path from database to gain access to FTP server and write the random file. FTP controller then requests Web server to serve the test file back from storing computer or storage device to a browser at computer . If an error message is returned FTP controller determines that the first standard FTP path or root directory was incorrect. FTP controller then accesses database again to obtain the next standard or common FTP path or root directory name in the list and repeats the process. If however the test file is returned FTP controller verifies the content of that file which was originally produced by random content generator . If the content matches FTP controller determines that the FTP path or root directory name that was used was correct. FTP controller may verify the test file by setting a validation flag or other such indicator. It should be noted that random file names and content may be used by FTP controller in order to ensure that file names and content are not overlapped in case a file of the same name actually exists on the computer storing the Web files already.

It should be noted that in selected embodiments of the present invention if the system unsuccessfully attempts to find the FTP path after going through each of the standard or common addresses or links the user may be requested to provide such FTP path. However selected embodiments of the present invention will only generally ask the user for the path name or root directory name after multiple such common or standard names are automatically attempted.

Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one will readily appreciate from the disclosure processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

