---

title: Power-on reset circuits
abstract: Power-on reset circuits are disclosed. A first reset circuit includes a first comparator to output a system reset signal, and a second reset circuit outputs a first reset signal to control operations of the first comparator, such that the first reset circuit outputs the system reset signal when a first voltage is less than a first reference voltage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07965112&OS=07965112&RS=07965112
owner: Mediatek Inc.
number: 07965112
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20070925
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 827 436 filed Sep. 29 2006 and entitled A Low Voltage Power Reset Circuit .

The invention relates to power on reset circuits and more particularly to a power on reset circuit with two reset circuits connected in series.

A power on reset POR circuit is typically required in a semiconductor device for preventing malfunctions from occurring when a power supply voltage is applied to the semiconductor device. When the semiconductor device is operated before the power supply voltage reaches a suitable operational level abnormal operations may occur. Accordingly a reset signal RESET resets the semiconductor device if a power supply voltage has been applied but not reached a predetermined voltage level. The reset signal is released after the power supply has reached the predetermined voltage level range.

A detailed description is given in the following embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings.

A power on reset circuit is provided. An exemplary embodiment of a power on reset circuit of the invention comprises a first reset circuit comprising a first comparator for outputting a system reset signal and a second reset circuit outputting a first reset signal to control operations of the first comparator such that the first reset circuit outputs the system reset signal when a first voltage is less than a first reference voltage.

Another embodiment of a power on reset circuit comprises a first reset circuit outputting a first reset signal when a voltage division of a power supply voltage is less than a reference voltage. A second reset circuit is coupled to the first reset circuit in series and comprises a first comparator controlled by the first reset signal for outputting a system reset signal to reset an external circuit.

Another embodiment of a power on reset circuit comprises a first reset circuit comprising a first comparator with a first input terminal coupled to a first reference voltage a second input terminal coupled to a first node and an output terminal generating a first reset signal. A second reset circuit comprises a second comparator with a first input terminal coupled to a second reference voltage and a second input terminal coupled to a second node and an output terminal generating a system reset signal wherein the output terminal of the first comparator is coupled to the second comparator.

Another embodiment of a power on reset circuit comprises a first reset circuit comprising a first voltage supply unit providing a first reference voltage and a first comparator with a first input terminal coupled to the first reference voltage a second input terminal coupled to a first node in a first resistor string coupled between a power supply voltage and a ground voltage and an output terminal generating a first reset signal. A second reset circuit comprises a second voltage supply unit providing a second reference voltage and a second comparator with a first input terminal coupled to the second reference voltage and a second input terminal coupled to a second node in a second resistor string and an output terminal generating a system reset signal. The output terminal of the first comparator is coupled to the second resistor string a power terminal of the second comparator or the second input terminal.

The invention further provides a power on reset method an exemplary embodiment of which comprises a first reset signal output to a second reset circuit by a first reset circuit when a first voltage is less than a first reference voltage and a comparator in the second reset circuit outputs a system reset signal according to the first reset signal.

The following description is of the best contemplated mode of carrying out the invention. This description is made for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention and should not be taken in a limiting sense. The scope of the invention is best determined by reference to the appended claims.

It should be noted that the reset signal RS from the reset circuit controls operations of a comparator COM in the reset circuit when the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vgs. The reset circuit stops outputting the reset signal RS when the voltage V exceeds the reference Vgs the reset circuit then outputs the system reset signal Saccording to a voltage V obtained by voltage dividing of the power supply voltage Vdd and the reference voltage Vbg. For example the comparator COM continues to output the system reset signal Sif the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg and stops outputting the system signal Swhen the voltage V meets the reference voltage Vbg. Thus the power on reset circuit can output the system reset signal to reset the external circuit when the divided voltage of the power supply voltage Vdd is less than the reference voltage Vbg thereby preventing the external circuit from operating with a lower power supply voltage.

The resistors R and R are connected in series the resistor R is coupled between the power supply voltage Vdd and a node N. The resistor R is coupled between the node N and the ground voltage GND in which the resistors R and R form a voltage division circuit a resistor string performing voltage division to the power supply voltage Vdd to obtain a voltage V on the node N. The comparator COM comprises two input terminals coupled to the reference voltage Vgs and the voltage V on the node N respectively two power terminals coupled to the power supply voltage Vdd and the ground voltage GND respectively and an output terminal coupled to a comparator COM in the reset circuit A. For example the MOS transistor M can also be replaced by other transistors such as bipolar junction transistors BJTs JFETs and similar.

The reset circuit A comprises resistors R and R a bandgap reference circuit BRC and a comparator COM. The bandgap reference circuit BRC provides a reference voltage Vbg exceeding the reference voltage Vgs to the comparator COM. The resistors R and R are connected in series. The resistor R is coupled between the power supply voltage Vdd and a node N and the resistor R is coupled between the node N and the ground voltage GND. Resistors R and R form a voltage division circuit another resistor string performing voltage division to the power supply voltage Vdd to obtain a voltage V on the node N.

The comparator COM comprises two input terminals coupled to the reference voltage Vbg and the voltage V on the node N respectively a first power terminal coupled to the output terminal of the comparator COM a second power terminal coupled to the ground voltage GND and an output terminal outputting the system reset signal S.

The operation of the power on reset circuit A is described in the following with reference to . At time T because the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND i.e. the comparator COM outputs the reset signal RS to the comparator COM. When the reset signal RS is applied to the first power terminal of the comparator COM the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND even if the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vbg provided by the bandgap reference circuit BRC at this time. Namely the system reset signal S with low logic level is output to the external circuit not shown .

At time T because the voltage V is still less than the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM continues to output the reset signal RS i.e. the first power terminal of the comparator COM is pulled to the ground voltage GND such that comparator COM outputs the system reset signal regardless of the voltage V.

At time T because the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the reset signal RS at this time. Because the first power terminal of the comparator COM is pulled to the power supply voltage Vdd the comparator COM outputs the system reset signal Saccording to the voltage V and the reference voltage Vbg. The comparator COM continues to pull the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND as the system reset signal Sbecause the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg after time T.

At time T the comparator COM pulls high the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the system reset signal Sat this time because the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vbg.

Briefly the reset circuit outputs the reset signal RS to let the comparator COM in the reset circuit A to output the system reset signal Swhen the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vgs. When the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vgs and the reset circuit A outputs the system reset signal Saccording to the voltage V and the reference voltage Vbg. If the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg at this time the comparator COM continues to output the system reset signal Sand stops outputting the system signal Sif not.

Namely by choosing appropriate resistors R R the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vgs at time T before the reference voltage Vbg exceeds the voltage V at time T such that the power on reset circuit A can output the system reset signal Sto reset the external circuit correctly during time T T.

Operation of power on reset circuit B is described in detail in the following with reference to . At time T because the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND i.e. the reset signal RS is output to the reset circuit B. When the reset signal RS is applied to the control terminal of the multiplexer AUX the multiplexer AUX pulls one terminal of the comparator COM to the ground voltage GND. Hence the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND regardless of whether the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vbg provided by the bandgap reference circuit BRC. Namely the system reset signal S with low logic level is output to the external circuit not shown .

At time T because the voltage V is still less the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM continues to output the reset signal RS i.e. the first power terminal of the comparator COM is pulled to the ground voltage GND such that comparator COM outputs the system reset signal S.

At time T because the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the reset signal RS at this time. Hence the multiplexer AUX couples the voltage V on the node N to the positive input terminal of the comparator COM . The comparator COM continues to pull the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage as the system reset signal Sbecause the voltage V is less than the reference voltage.

At time T the comparator COM pulls high the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the system reset signal Sat this time because the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vbg.

Operation of power on reset circuit C is described in detail in the following with reference to . At time T because the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND i.e. the reset signal RS is output to the reset circuit C. As the reset signal. RS is applied to the resistor R the resistors R and R are both coupled to the ground voltage GND such that the voltage V on the node N is pulled to the ground voltage GND accordingly. Hence the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg and thus the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND as the system reset signal Soutput to the external circuit not shown .

At time T because the voltage V is still less the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM continues to output the reset signal RS i.e. the voltage V on the node N is also pulled to the ground voltage GND such that comparator COM continues to output the system reset signal Swith low logic level.

At time T because the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the reset signal RS at this time. Accordingly one terminal of the resistor R is pulled to the power supply voltage Vdd and the voltage V on the node N can be regarded as a divided voltage of the power supply voltage Vdd. Because the voltage V is still less than the reference voltage Vbg the comparator COM continues pulling the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND as the system reset signal S.

At time T the comparator COM pulls high the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the system reset signal Sat this time because the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vbg.

The power on reset circuits and A C of the invention can act as a necessary functional block for mixed mode and analog integrated circuits ICs such as data converters phase lock loop PLL oscillators power management circuits dynamic random access memory DRAM flash memory a microprocessing unit MPU a digital signal processor a microcontroller a central processing unit or a microprocessor or electronics devices such as a digital camera a portable DVD a television a car display a PDA notebook computer tablet computer cellular phone or a display device and others.

The invention also provides a power on reset method to prevent a core circuit from operating with low power supply voltage.

In the power on reset method the reset circuit outputs a reset signal RS when a voltage V obtained by a voltage divided power supply voltage Vdd is less than a reference voltage Vgs and the reset circuit outputs a system reset signal Sto reset an external circuit not shown when the voltage V is less than a reference voltage Vbg. For example the reference voltage Vgs is a threshold voltage of a MOS transistor M and is less than the reference voltage Vbg.

The reset circuit stops outputting the reset signal RS when the voltage V exceeds the reference Vgs and the reset circuit then outputs the system reset signal Saccording to a voltage V obtained by voltage divided power supply voltage Vdd and the reference voltage Vbg. For example the comparator COM continues to output the system reset signal Sif the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg and stops outputting the system signal Swhen the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vbg. Thus the power on reset circuit can output the system reset signal to reset the external circuit when the divided voltage of the power supply voltage Vdd is less than the reference voltage Vbg thereby preventing the core circuit from operating with a lower power supply voltage.

For example as shown in when the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND i.e. the reset signal RS is output to the comparator COM. When the reset signal RS is applied to the first power terminal of the comparator COM the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND regardless of the voltage V. Namely the system reset signal S with low logic level is output to the external circuit not shown . When the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the reset signal RS at this time. Because the first power terminal of the comparator COM is pulled to the power supply voltage Vdd the comparator COM outputs the system reset signal Saccording to the voltage V and the reference voltage Vbg. The comparator COM continues to pull the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND as the system reset signal Sif the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg and the comparator COM pulls high the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd if the voltage V is not less than the reference voltage Vbg i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the system reset signal S.

Alternatively as shown in the reset signal RS is applied to the control terminal of the multiplexer AUX coupled between the node N and the positive input terminal of the comparator COM. The multiplexer AUX pulls one terminal of the comparator COM to the ground voltage GND when receiving the reset signal RS such that the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND regardless of the voltage V. Namely the system reset signal S with low logic level is output to the external circuit not shown . When the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the reset signal RS at this time. Hence the multiplexer AUX couples the voltage V on the node N to the positive input terminal of the comparator COM and thus the comparator COM outputs the system reset signal Saccording to the voltage V and the reference voltage Vbg. The comparator COM continues to pull the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage as the system reset signal Sif the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg and the comparator COM pulls high the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd if the voltage V is not less than the reference voltage Vbg i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the system reset signal S.

Additionally as shown in and when the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND i.e. the reset signal RS is output to the resistor R coupled to the positive input terminal of the comparator COM. Because the resistors R and R are both coupled to the ground voltage GND the voltage V on the node N is pulled to the ground voltage GND accordingly. Hence the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg and thus the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND as the system reset signal S. When the voltage V exceeds the reference voltage Vgs the comparator COM pulls the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the reset signal RS at this time. Accordingly one terminal of the resistor R is pulled to the power supply voltage Vdd and the voltage V on the node N can be regarded as a divided voltage of the power supply voltage Vdd. Thus the comparator COM outputs the system reset signal Saccording to the voltage V and the reference voltage Vbg. The comparator COM continues to pull the output terminal thereof to the ground voltage GND as the system reset signal Sif the voltage V is less than the reference voltage Vbg and the comparator COM pulls high the output terminal thereof to the power supply voltage Vdd i.e. the comparator COM stops outputting the system reset signal Sif the voltage V is not less than the reference voltage Vbg.

While the invention has been described by way of example and in terms of preferred embodiment it is to be understood that the invention is not limited thereto. To the contrary it is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those skilled in the art . Therefore the scope of the appended claims should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements.

