---

title: Delegated search of content in accounts linked to social overlay system
abstract: The present invention provides a federated search tool and search methods that consolidate searches to external online accounts of a user and other people that are part of the user's social network. In some embodiments, the search tool is presented as a single search box that may appear persistently on the user's desktop display or as a toolbar embedded within another application. The search tool may be embedded as part of web page. Embodiments of the present invention may provide the results in a simple real-time display stack or a static result list, such as a web page. Blocks in the stack may indicate a result and the context of the result, such as which online account originated the result, whether the result is from a linked external accounts of people associated with the user, pointers to people and groups the user has linked to, an age of the result, and the like. The present invention may also permit the user to search the Internet generally, such as well known search engines, and to search the contents of their local machine, such as documents, emails, pictures, and the like. In addition, the present invention allows searches to be performed asynchronously to various linked external online account sites and then provides these results as they arrive.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09183305&OS=09183305&RS=09183305
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09183305
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070619
---
Individual search engines have facilitated the access to data published on networks such as the Internet or intranets. However individual search engines are subject to certain limitations and this has resulted in the creation of federated search engines that exploit other information sources including individual search engines in order to provide a better answer to user queries. Federated search engines do not store a document collection instead federated search engines forward user queries to external information sources in order to retrieve relevant data using wrappers that specify the interaction with information sources.

Unlike individual search engines federated search engines or meta search engines or aggregated search engines attempt to provide a single user interface for accessing multiple information sources that vary in content. These search engines hope to achieve better results by widening the domains of their search.

However this approach increases the amount of information a search may uncover. Similar to individual search engines federated search engines need to distill search results in a concise and coherent manner so that users may readily identify what they are looking for. Many search engines distill search results for a user by computing a score using preset criteria and ranking the search results based on the computed score. In addition search engines help users locate information in search results they are looking for by clustering search results into groups or categories based on the characteristics of the search results.

However these known advances generally still fail to provide search results to users that they are truly trying to locate or that they are interested. Moreover the known federated search engines and the like still fail to provide search results that account for the user s perspective of their online services. For example known federated search engines focus only on publicly available results and yet fail to obtain results in online services where the user is authorized to access.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide methods and system of search that efficiently provide results of interest to the user. In addition it would be desirable to provide methods and systems of search that take into account the user s relationships with their online services and with other users of those online services.

The present invention provides a federated search tool and search methods that consolidate searches to external online accounts of a user and other people that are part of the user s social network. In some embodiments the search tool is presented as a single search box that may appear persistently on the user s desktop display or as a toolbar embedded within another application. The search tool may be embedded as part of web page. Embodiments of the present invention may provide the results in a simple real time display stack or a static result list such as a web page. Blocks in the stack may indicate a result and the context of the result such as which online account originated the result whether the result is from a linked external accounts of people associated with the user pointers to people and groups the user has linked to an age of the result and the like. The present invention may also permit the user to search the Internet generally such as well known search engines and to search the contents of their local machine such as documents emails pictures and the like. In addition the present invention allows searches to be performed asynchronously to various linked external online account sites and then provides these results as they arrive.

Reference will now be made in detail to the exemplary embodiments of the invention which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Client provides a user interface for system . Client may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example client may be implemented on a personal computer workstation or terminal. In addition client may run under an operating system such as the LINUX operating system the Microsoft Windows operating system and the like. Client may also operate through an Internet browser application such as Firefox by Mozilla Internet Explorer by Microsoft Corporation or Netscape Navigator by Netscape Communications Corporation.

One skilled in the art will also recognize that client may be implemented with various peripheral devices such as a display one or more speakers and other suitable devices. Client may also be implemented with various peripherals for accepting input from a user such as a keyboard a mouse and the like. Although shows a number of clients system may include any number of clients.

Services are the applications and services that users of system already use. Services may be implemented on one or more servers that are well known to those skilled in the art. Rather than recreating functionality open overlay service merely interfaces services and allows users to seamlessly continue using the services such as social networking services instant messaging etc. that they currently use. Examples of services include iTunes Yahoo Music Engine MySpace Friendster AOL Instant Messenger Yahoo Messenger etc. Any sort of online service may be incorporated into the context provided by open overlay service .

Open overlay service serves as a social network service and stores manages and provides access control to the various services and social networks of clients . In general open overlay service is essentially a web site and application service that stores and forwards information shared by users as well as user profiles and social network information. Open overlay service may be hosted as a public instance similar in fashion to a service such as Wikipedia. In addition open overlay service may provide various application programming interfaces that have an open specification so that anyone can create an interface.

For example open overlay service may process requests to search for and retrieve an object document image file web page and the like. Open overlay service may be implemented using a variety of devices and software. For example open overlay service may be implemented as a web site running on one or more servers that support various application programs and stored procedures.

The components of system may be coupled together via network . Network may comprise one or more networks such as a local area network the Internet or other type of wide area network. In addition network may support a wide variety of known protocols such as the transport control protocol and Internet protocol TCP IP and hypertext transport protocol HTTP .

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in open overlay service . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include the Linux operating system the UNIX operating system. In addition OS may operate in conjunction with other software such as an application server such as JBoss to implement various features of open overlay service .

Application server provides the logic for analyzing and managing the operations of open overlay service . As previously noted application server may be written in a variety of programming languages such as C C Java etc.

For example one responsibility of application server may be managing the various identities of the users of open overlay service . As noted previously a single person may have multiple identities that they use for various online services and social networks. For example a person named John Smith may use jsmith domain.com as an identity one service but use smithj domain2.com as his identity on another service.

In one embodiment in order to track the various users of open overlay service application server may assign each user a unique identifier such as a numeric identifier. Application server may then utilize this unique identifier with the identity resources i.e. email address account names screen names etc. used by services to identify a person. In some embodiments application server generates a graph of each social network within open overlay service in terms of person s names and the identity resources from the point of view of a particular user based on what is trusted by that user.

For example given information about a person s name their unique identifier assigned by application server and associations to identity resources trusted by other users application server can generate a list of person names and identity resources i.e. email address account names etc. that should be visible to a particular user. Hence the particular user will only be allowed to see identity resources they happen to or only know about that user and identity resources that have been verified by application server . For example a user A may have a unique identifier of 2345 and email address 1 and email address 2 as identity resources. A user B may only know about email address 1 for user A. Meanwhile a user C may similarly only know about email address 2 for user A. Thus for user B application server will only allow user B to view and use email address 1 as an identity resource for user A. Likewise application server will only allow user C to view and use email address 2 as an identity resource for user A. However if user A subsequently explicitly indicates to application server that both users B and C can be trusted then users B and C will then be also allowed to view both email addresses 1 and 2 as well. The primary uses of this information by open overlay service may be for sharing a link with person by addressing that person either by an email address or by a short nickname or for viewing a list of persons in open overlay service that they think they know.

Application server may also determine what information of a user should be public or private. In some embodiments application server may default to making information public but provide an option such as a checkbox that allows the user to designate information as private. Application server may also employ per page settings such as all private or all public. Other privacy policies may be implemented by application server .

Application server may further provide various search features. For example application server may allow users to search for information content and other users based on various criteria such as keywords age gender school etc. Application server may also allow searches for various resources such as email addresses topics links etc.

Messaging server manages communications between open overlay service and clients via network . For example messaging server may be configured to periodically poll clients on a regular basis and have them request information from services . Messaging server may be implemented based on well known hardware and software and utilize well known protocols such as TCP IP hypertext transport protocol etc.

Messaging server may be configured to handle a wide variety of data and may handle data that is in any format. For example information from clients may be in the form of an extensible markup language XML file or a network location such as a uniform resource locator URL on the Internet. Alternatively messaging server may be configured to obtain information from services directly in a peer to peer fashion.

Messaging agent serves as an interface between open overlay service and online services and may operate to monitor the activity of clients at these services. In particular messaging agent may be a relatively small and focused computer application or bot that runs continuously in the background simultaneously for each of clients as other programs are being run and responds automatically to activity on services that may be of interest to clients such as new messages postings and the like.

Messaging agent may be created by open overlay service i.e. by application server for the benefit of the users at clients . Alternatively for example messaging server may send information to clients upon request perform automated searches or monitor messages or events at services .

In one embodiment messaging server and or messaging agent may work in conjunction to perform client side data scraping on services . Client side data scraping may be desirable in some instances where services refuse or block a direct interface with open overlay service . For example MySpace and AOL s instant messaging service may be implemented as one of services but is known to block proxy requests for a client.

Client side data scraping may be initiated by messaging server or using information provided by messaging server. Messaging server may poll client overlay client to trigger a request to one of services . Accordingly overlay client may cause one of service applications to interface with service and request data from that service such as web page refresh. Since the request originated from client service will provide a response. Overlay client may detect this response and forward it to messaging server . Messaging server may then pass this response. Of course the polling may be configured at overlay client based on information provided to messaging server .

In addition in order to support queries to online services messaging server may employ plugins that format a search query in to a form suitable for different search engines. Such plugins are known to those skilled and the art. For example messaging server may employ a plugin for a Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI compliant online service. UDDI is an extensible markup language XML based registry for entities to list themselves on the Internet. UDDI is an open industry initiative that is sponsored by OASIS and is well known to those skilled in the art.

Messaging server evaluates the response and determines if a notification event is needed. If notification is needed messaging server send a message to overlay client . The notification may then be displayed to the user using for example browser or service application . For example messaging server may send notification event to report when search results have been received.

One application of client side data scraping may be used to detect when messages or postings have been entered on one of services . For example on MySpace users often repeatedly refresh their pages in anticipation of receiving a post or message from a friend. With client side data scraping open overlay service may automatically perform this function and more conveniently indicate when the user has received activity on their MySpace page. This notification may appear in the form of a pop up bubble or may be displayed as a link on the user s page in open overlay service . Of course other applications of client side data scraping are consistent with the principles of the present invention.

Web server provides a communications interface between open overlay service clients and services . For example web server may be configured to provide information that indicates the status of client . Such communications may be based on well known protocols and programming languages such as HTTP TCP IP and Java. Interfaces provided by web server may be implemented using well known Internet technologies such as web pages which are well known to those skilled in the art.

User database maintains information identifying users and clients . User database may be implemented using well known database technology such as relational databases or object oriented databases.

For example user database may include information indicating one or more operating systems and applications installed on clients as well as services subscribed to by users. User database may also comprise information related to authenticating a user determining the respective rights of a user relative to other users. For example a user may select various groups or channels of content in which they are interested in receiving information. User database may further include information that indicates the permissions and delivery of the information to clients . Other information that may be included in user database may comprise information such as system and individual permissions of clients on services activation keys registration information and payment information such as credit card information .

Furthermore user database may include other information related to the manner in which open overlay service communicates with clients . For example this information may relate to periodicity of notifications email addresses format of the information and the like. User database may include data structures to log the activities and transactions of its users. Activities such as recent links history of operations etc. that may be logged in user database are well known to those skilled in the art.

Operating system OS is an integrated collection of routines that service the sequencing and processing of programs and applications running in open overlay service . OS may provide many services such as resource allocation scheduling input output control and data management. OS may be predominantly software but may also comprise partial or complete hardware implementations and firmware. Well known examples of operating systems that are consistent with the principles of the present invention include Mac OS by Apple Computer the Windows family of operating systems by Microsoft Corporation and the Linux operating system.

Overlay client maintains an inventory of the software and service applications installed on client and archives one or more states of activity on client . In some embodiments overlay client may be configured to periodically connect to open overlay service and perform various operations requested by open overlay service .

Browser is an application that runs on client and provides an interface to access information on network such as information on services . Browser may be implemented as well known programs such as Mozilla Firefox Microsoft Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator and the like.

Service applications run on client to support the services provided by services . For example service applications may be applications such as a browser an instant messaging client a music player such as iTunes and the like that are provided from services . Other examples for applications are well known to those skilled in the art.

User data cache provides a cache that indicates the activity of a user at client . For example user data cache may include information that indicates documents such as HTML pages images URL links web site access times and the like. User data cache may also store a history of previous searches search results and the like.

Search tool represents the software for graphical user interface that when clicked will activate a federated search on behalf of the user. The user may modify and customize search tool to fit their personal needs. In general search tool is configured to receive a search request from the user such as the entry of a set of keywords and activate the federated search. Of course search tool may provide a range of options in specifying a federated search. Such options are well known to those skilled in the art.

In one embodiment search tool operates as a thin client operates in conjunction with open overlay service to perform a federated search. For example a user may interface with open overlay service as web application or web page via web browser . As part of open overlay service search tool may be embedded as part of the web application or web page or as a toolbar on web browser . For example search tool may be implemented as a Java applet that interfaces with a corresponding servlet running on application server to perform a federated search. In this embodiment open overlay performs most of the functions to accomplish the federated search. Nonetheless whether operating as thin client or as a full client both are capable of providing a federated search consistent with the present invention.

In another embodiment search tool operates as a client and performs more of the tasks for a federated search. Search tool may be implemented as a toolbar appearing on client . The user may still modify and customize search tool to fit their personal needs. Search tool configured as a full client application is explained in more detail with reference to .

In general search tool is configured to perform a federated search and provide results from the user s point of view in the various social networks via open overlay service . Results provided from search tool have some contextual information such as who sent a web swarm and how old it is or whose account originated a result.

Search tool may be initiated by receiving a set of keywords from a user. In response the search tool identifies a domain of online services of the user based on the user s account information with online services . Search tool then queries or requests queries to at least some of the online services based on the set of keywords received from the user. The results are eventually provided in a format that indicates results from the online services and their context from the user s point of view as will be described below. The results may be presented via an application running on client or embedded via a web page displayed by browser . The various structures of search tool that may be used in the present invention will now be described with reference to .

Search manager is the software responsible for receiving the search request initiating multiple queries collecting the results and providing these results to the user. Search manager may interface with overlay client to pull together pointers to the external accounts of the user with online services and those of people known to the user. Search manager uses this information to determine a domain of online services against which the search will be performed. In addition search manager will be able to conduct the federated search using the online account credentials of the user it s gathered. Thus unlike conventional federated search engines the present invention is able to search from the point of view of the user and not just be limited to public information.

For example with this feature search manager may obtain results from external accounts the user linked to open overlay service from linked external accounts of people known to the user and pointers to people and groups the user linked to on open overlay service .

Furthermore search manager may supplement these searches with other conventional searches such as web search results from Internet search engines like Yahoo or Google and local search results from resources stored on client . Search manager may implement these conventional searches directly or may interface with known tools such as Google s desktop search to perform these searches.

Search manager is thus able to provide search results oriented from the point of view of the users based on their relationships with the various social networks and other users of those social networks. In providing results search manager may provide some contextual information similar such as who originated the result how old it is or whose account originated some activity.

In addition search manager may initiate its searches asynchronously from each other. For example search manager may trigger asynchronous searches to the various linked external account sites and provide the results to the user as they arrive from these sites.

Search manager may also filter the results based on various criteria. For example the user may specify a set of defaults with search manager that are used to filter the results. Of course other filtering technologies are known to those skilled in the art.

Query engine is responsible for routing queries for the federated search to the appropriate information sources such as online services translate the queries into an appropriate format and send the queries to the appropriate information source for example via network .

Plugins are software that assist query engine interact with the various information sources that are the subject of the federated search. For example plugins may implement an application programming interface to format a query into a particular format or language. This is because various information sources may use different formats and syntax for accepting a query. Plugins may also if needed employ services of overlay client and service applications in order to fully access an information source such as one or more of online services .

Local cache serves as a storage location for search engine . For example search engine may utilize local cache to store a history searches keywords results and the like.

In order to illustrate some of the features of search tool is now provided to illustrate a search result stream. As shown the search result stream may be a dynamic display provided to a user that indicates various results in a stacked format as they arrive or in batches. As noted the search result stream may be provided by search tool or embedded in a web page displayed by browser .

Each block of the stacked format represents one or more results originating from the user s own activities or activities of the user s contacts in their social network. Activities may originate from accounts on other online service that the user linked to their profile on open overlay service . The stacked format of the results event stream may be updated in substantially real time to provide the user a sense of the progression of their federated search.

In general the results event stream aggregates a wide variety of information collected by search tool . For example the results event stream indicate events such as results originating from an Internet web feed e.g. a RSS feed and results that are links to music on specific sites of network such as iTunes. In addition events indicated in the results event stream may comprise results corresponding to songs results corresponding to videos results corresponding to Internet content ranked or bookmarked by users results corresponding to explicit shares of content between users of social networks of open overlay service results reflecting activity across a diversity of online web sites and services results representing activity by a particular person or user results representing activity by friends of a particular person or user results representing activity associated with a group or events representing activity by members of a group.

The results event stream may also provide various options and information including an option to add an entry to a user s favorites information showing when the result was created or updated an expand contract each block an option to highlight one or more blocks in the stream an ability to scroll back through history of the blocks an option to chat or join a chat about a result information such as an image or name of person or group that originated the result in a block or an icon dynamically retrieved to represent the origin of the result in the block such as a website or online service or company.

In some embodiments the blocks in the results event stream may be repeated or ordered based on the popularity of the result in that block. A user may also selectively filter blocks e.g. hush in the display either individually by group by type etc.

The results event stream thus allows search tool searches from the point of view of the user s various accounts e.g. Flickr YouTube digg and delicious on different systems.

Blocks of the results event stream may include various details and may be updated in a cascading format. As shown each block provides a thumbnail view of a social network by representing a user on open overlay and a result is represented in that block.

In order to provide visual effect the size of the blocks in the results event stream may be modified to indicate relative activity. For example a large block may indicate a high amount of recent activity while smaller blocks may indicate decreased activity.

In addition initial blocks are smaller in size but can be expanded to get a more complete view of the detail and its activity. Activity such as views of a link swarming may cause a block on the results event stacker to rise to the top.

As explained herein for example as shown in certain embodiments may include storage of programs and or data on a well known computer readable medium. Exemplary well known computer readable storage media include conventional computer system RAM random access memory ROM read only memory EPROM erasable programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM and magnetic or optical disks or tapes.

Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

