---

title: One-click posting
abstract: The claimed subject matter provides a system and/or a method that facilitates automatically generating an advertisement. An interface component can receive a portion of image data related to at least one of a good or a service associated with a transaction. An automatic posting component can automatically generate an advertisement with a portion of descriptive data related to at least one of the good or the service based at least in part upon the image data, wherein the created advertisement is published to an environment for exposure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694379&OS=08694379&RS=08694379
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08694379
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070514
---
Computing and network technologies have transformed many aspects of everyday life. Computers have become household staples rather than luxuries educational tools and or entertainment centers and provide individuals and corporations with tools to manage and forecast finances control operations such as heating cooling lighting and security and store records and images in a permanent and reliable medium. Networking technologies like the Internet provide individuals virtually unlimited access to remote systems information and associated applications.

As computing and network technologies have evolved and become more robust secure and reliable more consumers wholesalers retailers entrepreneurs educational institutions and the like are shifting paradigms and employing the Internet to perform business rather than using traditional means. For example today consumers can access their bank accounts on line e.g. via the Internet and perform an ever growing number of banking transactions such as balance inquiries fund transfers bill payments and the like.

Typically an on line session can include individuals interfacing with client applications e.g. web services to interact with a database server that stores information accessible to the client applications. For instance a stock market web site can provide users with tools to retrieve stock quotes and purchase stock. Users can enter stock symbols and request stock quotes by performing mouse clicks to activate a query. Client applications can then query databases containing stock information and return appropriate stock quotes. Users based on returned stock quote information can thereafter purchase or sell stocks by supplying suitable information wherein submitting buy or sell orders initiate database queries to return current pricing information and order status.

Based on the ever increasing use of the computer and or the Internet numerous transactions related to goods services and or commerce have become commonplace. Although the use of the computer and or the Internet for transactions has rapidly increased with vast improvements related thereto techniques and mechanisms for uploading and or posting data related to online transactions is lagging far behind. Conventional procedures for posting and or listing advertisements via the Internet often require several tedious steps which can be time consuming inefficient and extremely meticulous. Moreover an average user can be dissuaded from posting listing advertisements online based solely on the required level of involvement wherein such exclusion can deteriorate the effectiveness and broad reach of online transactions.

The following presents a simplified summary of the innovation in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject innovation. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject innovation relates to systems and or methods that facilitate automatically generating an advertisement for online posting and or listing. An automatic posting component can receive image data e.g. data related to a picture video data audio data etc. via an interface to automatically generate an advertisement that can be published and or exposed to an online environment. In general the automatic posting component can employ a one click feature and or technique that upon activation automatically captures a portion of image data creates an advertisement with descriptive data and publishes the advertisement to an environment with minimal user intervention. The automatic posting component can create an advertisement for any suitable good and or service related to a transaction. Furthermore the automatic posting component can be utilized in connection with any suitable camera based device and or a device that can capture image data audio data video data etc.

In accordance with an aspect of the subject innovation a template component can provide a template for structure and or layout for data associated with the automatically created advertisement. Moreover a populate component can identify descriptive data related to the advertisement and or captured image data wherein such descriptive data can be annotated to the advertisement to provide an informative advertisement for publishing. In addition the automatic posting component can utilize a location component that can ascertain geographic data to be included with the advertisement. The automatic posting component can further include an exclusivity component that enables a portion of an environment to be exposed to the automatically created advertisement. In other aspects of the claimed subject matter methods are provided that facilitate creating an online advertisement with minimal user intervention.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the innovation may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the innovation when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

As utilized herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a program a function a library a subroutine and or a computer or a combination of software and hardware. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter. Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

Now turning to the figures illustrates a system that facilitates automatically generating an advertisement for online posting and or listing. The system can include an automatic posting component that can create published data e.g. an advertisement a listing a posting an ad an item for sale a service for sale etc. based at least in part upon image data received via an interface component discussed in more detail below wherein such published data can be automatically published in a specific format to any suitable environment e.g. the Internet a network a networked community a forum a website a blog an email list server an email address a social network a server a group a user a company a business etc. . It is to be appreciated that image data can include data related to a picture a graphic a video a portion of video etc. In particular the automatic posting component can receive a portion of image data that can be utilized to automatically generate an advertisement and or a listing to be published for exposure with minimal user interaction. For instance a user can employ a one click technique to capture image data e.g. picture video etc. related to a good and or a service and create a published advertisement and or listing associated with such good or service. Furthermore the automatic posting component can enable the advertisement and or listing based on the portion of image data to be selectively distributed to an environment for limited exposure. For example rather than publishing the automatically generated listing and or advertisement to the entire Internet a particular group of users can be identified for distribution.

In other words the automatic posting component can enable the creation of advertisements and or listings related to an image with a one click technique. The one click technique provides the capturing of good service imagery e.g. still picture data video data etc. and the generation of an advertisement and or listing with information to aid in describing the good service. For example the automatic posting component can be utilized in connection with any suitable device that can capture an image discussed in more detail below or a plurality of images e.g. video clip portion of video etc. wherein such device can employ a one click feature that publishes the image and additional data describing such image for exposure to a particular environment e.g. the Internet a social network a network a networked community a forum a website a blog an email list server an email address a server a group a user a company a business etc. . It is to be appreciated that the image data can be related to any suitable good service associated with a transaction e.g. commercial retail wholesale auction bulk etc. such as but not limited to a good e.g. clothing furniture computer food electronics literature hardware supplies construction material textiles etc. an item e.g. a used compact disc a lawnmower etc. a portion of a service e.g. a rental service a cleaning service financial service demolition construction car repair home repair etc. a portion of property a portion of real estate a stock a mutual fund a portion of a portfolio insurance or a portion of a commodity.

In addition the system can include any suitable and or necessary interface component herein referred to as interface which provides various adapters connectors channels communication paths etc. to integrate the automatic posting component into virtually any operating and or database system s and or with one another. In addition the interface component can provide various adapters connectors channels communication paths etc. that provide for interaction with the automatic posting component the published data and or any other component data and the like associated with the system .

The automatic posting component can include a populate component that can identify a portion of descriptive data related to the received image data e.g. video data picture data etc. . For example the populate component can identify descriptive data by at least one of the following receiving audio input from a user and converting such speech to text dynamically extracting key words from text and filling appropriate fields or using pattern recognition on the received image data. It is to be appreciated that the descriptive data can be text additional images contact information sale price transaction details shipping information instruction manuals product details manufacturer information pricing details terms of sale seller information geographic data profile data listing field data or any suitable data related to the image etc. Furthermore the populate component can utilize a service that can provide descriptive data. For example image data can be received and the populate component can utilize a service to provide descriptive text and transaction data e.g. terms price shipping etc. for the advertisement in an aesthetically pleasing format layout. In addition such service can be associated with the target environment e.g. the environment to which the advertisement is to be published to further simplify posting data online.

The automatic posting component can further utilize an exclusivity component that can selectively identify entities e.g. users businesses groups machines computers websites networks servers email addresses user profiles etc. to expose the generated advertisement within the target environment. In other words the exclusivity component can limit and or broaden the distribution and or publication of the advertisement and or listing. Conventionally advertisements are distributed to all users and advertisers pay on a per click basis. The exclusivity component enables a user to automatically post an advertisement e.g. for free or for a small cost to a specific group of users within an environment e.g. the Internet a social network a network a networked community a forum a website a blog an email list server an email address a server a group a user a company a business etc. . For instance a user can advertise just to a select group of friends that a band is playing on Saturday at a local park.

The automatic posting component can utilize a template component that can employ various templates and or formats for the automatically generated advertisements and or listings. For example the template component can provide standardized templates user defined templates and or standardized templates edited by a user. Moreover the template component can provide a service community and or a forum which allows various users to share distribute sell etc. templates e.g. template sharing template distribution template sharing template purchasing template tips template techniques template creation help or template assistance . It is to be appreciated that any suitable templates can be utilized with the automatic posting component wherein such templates can be based on various factors such as but not limited to image type image size item good service target environment target audience type nature of posting or advertisement cost terms geographic location device used to capture image data any suitable characteristic related to an advertisement etc. For example a specific template can relate to used goods items that are to be sold by a particular user on an auction website in which the template includes optimal characteristics e.g. font size image location layout text layout organization of descriptive data etc. and or seller owner information e.g. location shipping costs terms of sale user profile user rating etc. .

The automatic posting component can utilize a location component that can ascertain geographic data related to the received image data. The location component can utilize any suitable technique to identify a geographic location associated with a good and or service to which image data relates wherein the technique can be but is not limited to a global positioning system GPS phone number geographic tracking triangulation location registry cell tower location user informed location data location registration based upon image capture etc. The location data can be associated with at least one of the good the service a seller an owner a user profile a user location a residence or a place of business etc. Moreover upon identifying the location associated with a captured image e.g. still picture data video data etc. the system can populate and or annotate the generated advertisement and or listing with such geographic data.

For example a user can take a picture or video of a car that he or she would like to sell with his camera device e.g. smartphone digital camera portable digital device PDA laptop etc. . The geographic location can be determined or approximated by at least one of global positioning system GPS or phone number association associated with the device or from his user profile e.g. preset location . If more than one location is indicated the user can select the desired location for each particular item. As discussed descriptive data can be automatically populated for the advertisement and or listing. For instance the descriptive data can be populated by at least one of the following receiving audio input from the user and converting such speech to text dynamically extracting key words from text and filing in fields utilizing a service to provide descriptive data user defined descriptive data and or using pattern recognition on the image. Such advertisements and or listings can be generated in such a manner for wanted items or items for sale exchange free.

The system can further include a data store that can include any suitable data related to the automatic posting component and the published data . For instance the data store can include automatic posting settings configuration data related to the advertisement listing templates location user profiles distribution lists environment lists environment settings publishing settings historic data related to advertisements listings advertisements listings postings image data video data format data layout data descriptive data any suitable data related to the system any data related to commerce and or any suitable data related to a transaction etc.

It is to be appreciated that the data store can be for example either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM . The data store of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In addition it is to be appreciated that the data store can be a server a database a hard drive and the like.

The automatic posting component can receive the image data e.g. video data picture data etc. via the interface wherein an advertisement and or listing can be automatically created with descriptive data and published to an environment such as a community network . The community network can be a network including at least one client user entity etc. In one example the community network can be a network associated with commerce and or transactions related to commerce such as buying an item selling an item buying a portion of a service selling a portion of a service etc. In another example the community network can be a website related to auctioning goods items services etc. For instance the automatic posting component can publish and or expose the automatically created advertisement and or listing to the community network wherein a client user entity etc. related thereto can be targeted with such advertising. By implementing the automatic posting component posting a listing or an advertisement to the community network is greatly enhanced and simplified by reducing manual intervention with the one click feature.

The device can capture image data e.g. video data picture data etc. related to a good service that is to be advertised based at least in part upon the activation of the one click feature and or technique. It is to be appreciated that the good service can be any suitable good service that can be associated with a transaction e.g. commercial retail wholesale auction bulk etc. such as but not limited to a good e.g. clothing furniture computer food electronics literature hardware supplies construction material textiles etc. an item e.g. a used compact disc a lawnmower etc. a portion of a service e.g. a rental service a cleaning service financial service demolition construction car repair home repair etc. a portion of property a portion of real estate a stock a mutual fund a portion of a portfolio insurance a portion of a commodity etc. Once captured the automatic posting component can create an advertisement for the captured image data. For example the format and or layout of the advertisement can be based upon a template e.g. standardized user defined user defined standard template etc. wherein such advertisement can be populated with descriptive data automatically manually and or any suitable combination thereof. Once created the advertisement can be published to an environment such as for instance the community network having clients . It is to be appreciated that there can be any suitable number of clients such as client to client N where N is a positive integer. Furthermore as discussed above the automatic posting component can selectively publish the advertisement such that a portion of the clients can be exposed and or access the advertisement .

It is to be understood that the intelligent component can provide for reasoning about or infer states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification explicitly and or implicitly trained schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include e.g. na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

The automatic posting component can further utilize a presentation component that provides various types of user interfaces to facilitate interaction between a user and any component coupled to the automatic posting component . As depicted the presentation component is a separate entity that can be utilized with the automatic posting component . However it is to be appreciated that the presentation component and or similar view components can be incorporated into the automatic posting component and or a stand alone unit. The presentation component can provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs command line interfaces and the like. For example a GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present the results of such. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. For example the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled to and or incorporated into the automatic posting component .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a roller ball a keypad a keyboard a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent to entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can then provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI and or API. In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

At reference numeral image data e.g. still picture data video data etc. can be captured based at least in part upon the activation of the one click feature. The image data can be captured by any suitable device that can collect and or capture images or video. Furthermore it is to be appreciated that the image data captured can be related to any suitable good service associated with a transaction.

At reference numeral an advertisement with descriptive data can be created utilizing the image data. The advertisement can be automatically created for the image or collection of images e.g. video etc. wherein the advertisement can be populated and or annotated with descriptive data. For example the descriptive data can be text additional images contact information sale price transaction details shipping information instruction manuals product details manufacturer information pricing details terms of sale seller information geographic data profile data listing field data or any suitable data related to the image etc. At reference numeral the advertisement can be published to an online environment. For instance the online environment can be but is not limited to being the Internet a social network a network a networked community a forum a website a blog an email list server an email address a server a group a user a company a business etc. Thus the methodology enables an advertisement to be automatically created populated with descriptive data and published to an online environment based upon the activation of the one click feature.

At reference numeral the advertisement can be populated with descriptive data and geographic data. The descriptive data can be identified and or generated by at least one of the following receiving audio input from a user and converting such speech to text dynamically extracting key words from text and filling appropriate fields a service that populates data for the captured image or using pattern recognition on the received image data. Furthermore the descriptive data can include geographic information related to the location of the product and or seller. For example any suitable technique can be implemented to identify a geographic location associated with a good and or service to which image data relates wherein the technique can be but is not limited to a global positioning system GPS phone number geographic tracking triangulation location registry cell tower location user informed location data etc.

At reference numeral the advertisement can be selectively published to an environment. In general upon automatic creation of the advertisement related to the captured image data e.g. wherein such creation can be based upon the activation of the one click feature the advertisement can be published and or exposed to an online environment such as but not limited to the Internet a network a networked community a forum a website a blog an email list server an email address a social network a server a group a user a company a business etc. Yet the advertisement can be selectively published to a particular portion of the environment. In other words the advertisement can be selectively exposed to selected entities e.g. users businesses groups machines computers websites networks servers email addresses user profiles etc. within the target environment. Thus the exposure of the advertisement distribution can be limited and or broadened. For example an advertisement can be automatically created for a picture of a motorcycle in which such advertisement can be selectively published to members of motorcycle groups on the Internet than exposing such advertisement to every user client on the Internet.

In order to provide additional context for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter and the following discussion is intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the subject innovation may be implemented. For example an automatic posting component that facilitates creating an advertisement with descriptive data with minimal user intervention as described in the previous figures can be implemented in such suitable computing environment. While the claimed subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a local computer and or remote computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multi processor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based and or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which may operatively communicate with one or more associated devices. The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the subject innovation may be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices.

One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operably connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operably connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

With reference to an exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1394 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

