---

title: Coating system for cement composite articles
abstract: A coated article which includes a cement fiberboard substrate and a radiation-curable coating system applied to the substrate. The coating system includes a latex polymer, one or more olefinic compounds and water, and may be provided in the form of one or more coating compositions that may be applied in one or more layers, wherein each of the coating compositions is preferably an aqueous composition, or can be mixed with another composition (e.g., on the substrate) to form an aqueous composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08293361&OS=08293361&RS=08293361
owner: Valspar Sourcing, Inc.
number: 08293361
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070130
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 764 103 filed Jan. 31 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Cement composite articles are becoming more and more common for use in building materials. Many of these articles are prepared from inexpensive materials such as cement wood cellulose fibers natural glass fibers and polymers. These articles usually are prepared in the form of cement fiberboard substrates such as siding panels and boards. The substrate or articles can be made using methods such as extrusion or using a Hatschek machine.

In northern climates damage from repeated freezing and thawing of water absorbed into the cement fiberboard substrate represents a significant problem. Continued exposure to moisture freeze thaw cycles UV exposure and atmospheric carbon dioxide can cause physical and chemical changes in articles made from cement fiberboard compositions over time. Coating systems or coating compositions can prevent exposure to the elements such as UV light carbon dioxide and water or can help reduce the damage that can occur due to exposure to these elements. Several such systems are available for protecting cement fiberboard articles. However there is a need for coating systems and coating compositions that provide a superior seal have the ability to cure rapidly or can provide improved results when an article coated with the composition is submitted to wet adhesion testing and multiple freeze thaw cycles.

The present invention provides in one aspect a coated article comprising a cement fiberboard substrate and a radiation curable coating system applied to the substrate wherein the coating system includes an aqueous latex polymer and one or more olefinic compounds. The disclosed coating system includes one or more coating compositions that may be applied in one or more layers wherein each of the coating compositions is preferably an aqueous composition or can be mixed with another composition e.g. on the substrate to form an aqueous composition. The coating systems may optionally include a photoinitiator system.

In another aspect the invention provides a method for preparing a coated article which method comprises providing a cement fiberboard substrate coating at least a portion of the substrate with the above described coating system and radiation curing the coating.

The above summary of the present invention is not intended to describe each disclosed embodiment or every implementation of the present invention. The description that follows more particularly exemplifies illustrative embodiments. In several places throughout the application guidance is provided through lists of examples which examples can be used in various combinations. In each instance the recited list serves only as a representative group and should not be interpreted as an exclusive list.

The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawing and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Like reference symbols in the various figures of the drawing indicate like elements. The elements in the drawing are not to scale.

A latex polymer means a dispersion or emulsion of polymer particles in water containing one or more secondary dispersing or emulsifying agents e.g. a surfactant alkali soluble polymer or mixtures thereof whose presence is required to form the dispersion or emulsion. The secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent is typically separate from the polymer after polymer formation. In some embodiments a reactive dispersing or emulsifying agent may become part of the polymer particles as they are formed.

A water dispersible polymer means a polymer which is capable of being combined by itself with water without requiring the use of a secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent to obtain an aqueous dispersion or emulsion of polymer particles having at least a one month shelf stability at normal storage temperatures.

The recitation of numerical ranges by endpoints includes all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 5 etc. .

The term comprises and variations thereof does not have a limiting meaning where such term appears in the description or claims. Thus for example a composition comprising a wax compound means that the composition includes one or more wax compounds.

The terms acrylate esters and methacrylate esters refer to esters of acrylic acid and esters of methacrylic acid respectively. They may be referred to as meth acrylates or meth acrylate esters.

The term olefinic compound refers to any monomer oligomer or polymer containing reactive ethylenic unsaturation such as vinyls meth acrylates vinyl ethers allyl ethers vinyl esters unsaturated oils including mono di and triglycerides unsaturated fatty acids and the like. The term olefinic group refers to the reactive ethylenic unsaturated functional group in an olefinic compound.

The present invention provides a coating system for a cement fiberboard substrate such as a cement fiberboard siding product or other cement composite article. The coating system is a radiation curable coating system applied to the substrate wherein the coating system includes an aqueous latex polymer and one or more olefinic compounds. The coating system includes one or more coating compositions that may be applied in one or more layers wherein each of the one or more coating compositions is preferably an aqueous composition or can be mixed with another composition e.g. on the substrate to form an aqueous composition. Optional ingredients including water dispersible polymers water soluble silicates or photoinitiators may also be included in the disclosed coating systems.

Referring to a coated article of the present invention is shown in schematic cross sectional view. Article includes a cement fiberboard substrate . Substrate typically is quite heavy and may for example have a density of about 1 to about 1.6 g cmor more. The first major surface of substrate may be embossed with small peaks or ridges and valleys e.g. so as to resemble roughsawn wood. Major surface may have a variety of other surface configurations and may resemble a variety of building materials other than roughsawn wood. Layer or layers of the disclosed coating system lie atop and partially penetrate surface and desirably are applied to article at the location where article is manufactured. Layers help to protect substrate against one or more of exposure to moisture freeze thaw cycles UV exposure or atmospheric carbon dioxide. Layers also may provide a firmly adhered base layer upon which one or more firmly adhered layers of final topcoat may be formed. Final topcoat desirably is both decorative and weather resistant and may be applied to article at the location where article is manufactured or after article has been attached to a building or other surface.

A variety of cement fiberboard substrates may be employed in the disclosed articles. The disclosed substrates typically include cement and a filler. Exemplary fillers include wood fiberglass polymers or mixtures thereof. The substrates can be made using methods such as extrusion the Hatschek method or other methods known in the art. See e.g. U.S. Patent Application No. 2005 0208285 A1 corresponds to International Patent Application No. WO 2005 071179 A1 Australian Patent Application No. 2005100347 International Patent Application No. WO 01 68547 A1 International Patent Application No. WO 98 45222 A1 U.S. Patent Application No. 2006 0288909 A1 and Australian Patent Application No. 198060655 A1. Non limiting examples of such substrates include siding products boards and the like for uses including fencing roofing flooring wall boards shower boards lap siding vertical siding soffit panels trim boards shaped edge shingle replicas and stone or stucco replicas. One or both major surfaces of the substrate may be profiled or embossed to look like a grained or roughsawn wood or other building product or scalloped or cut to resemble shingles. The uncoated substrate surface typically contains a plurality of pores with micron or submicron scale cross sectional dimensions.

A variety of suitable fiber cement substrates are commercially available. For example several preferred fiber cement siding products are available from James Hardie Building Products Inc. of Mission Viejo Calif. including those sold as HARDIEHOME siding HARDIPANEL vertical siding HARDIPLANK lap siding HARDIESOFFIT panels HARDITRIM planks and HARDISHINGLE siding. These products are available with an extended warranty and are said to resist moisture damage to require only low maintenance to not crack rot or delaminate to resist damage from extended exposure to humidity rain snow salt air and termites to be non combustible and to offer the warmth of wood and the durability of fiber cement. Other suitable fiber cement siding substrates include AQUAPANEL cement board products from Knauf USG Systems GmbH Co. KG of Iserlohn Germany CEMPLANK CEMPANEL and CEMTRIM cement board products from Cemplank of Mission Viejo Calif. WEATHERBOARDS cement board products from Certain Teed Corporation of Valley Forge Pa. MAXITILE MAXISHAKE AND MAXISLATE cement board products from MaxiTile Inc. of Carson Calif. BRESTONE CINDERSTONE LEDGESTONE NEWPORT BRICK SIERRA PREMIUM and VINTAGE BRICK cement board products from Nichiha U.S.A. Inc. of Norcross Ga. EVERNICE cement board products from Zhangjiagang Evernice Building Materials Co. Ltd. of China and E BOARD cement board products from Everest Industries Ltd. of India.

The disclosed articles may be coated on one or more surfaces with the disclosed radiation curable coating system. The coating system includes one or more coating compositions that may be applied in one or more layers. The coating systems may be provided in a variety of embodiments. Exemplary embodiments include i at least one latex polymer and at least one olefinic compound ii at least one latex polymer at least one olefinic compound and at least one water soluble silicate salt iii at least one latex polymer at least one water dispersible polymer and at least one olefinic compound or iv at least one latex polymer at least one water dispersible polymer at least one olefinic compound and at least one water soluble silicate salt. These various embodiments may be applied to the substrate and cured using radiation e.g. electron beam or UV light .

In another embodiment the coating system includes a first coating composition that includes at least one olefinic compound and a second coating composition that includes at least one latex polymer. The two coating compositions may be applied to the substrate sequentially or concurrently and sequentially or simultaneously cured using radiation.

In another embodiment the coating system includes a first coating composition that includes at least one olefinic compound and a second coating composition that includes at least one latex polymer and at least one water dispersible polymer. The two coating compositions may be applied to the substrate sequentially or concurrently and sequentially or simultaneously cured using radiation.

Persons having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that other embodiments may be envisioned such as a coating system including a first coating composition that includes at least one latex polymer and at least one olefinic compound and a second coating composition that includes at least one water dispersible polymer or a first coating composition that includes at least one water dispersible polymer and at least one olefinic compound and a second coating composition that includes at least one latex polymer. Also any of the above mentioned first and second coating compositions may contain a water soluble silicate salt.

The olefinic compound in the disclosed coating systems appears to function as a reactive penetrant. This may be better appreciated by observing the coating system after it is applied to the substrate but before radiation curing is performed. The olefinic compound appears to improve wetting or penetration and may help draw at least a portion of the latex polymer particles into pores in the substrate. The olefinic compound also appears to help the cured coating adhere to the substrate following cure. Preferred coating systems may also include one or more of the following additional features 

A variety of latex polymers may be employed in the disclosed coating systems including meth acrylics vinyls oil modified polymers polyesters polyurethanes polyamides chlorinated polyolefins and mixtures or copolymers thereof. Latex polymers are readily synthesized at modest cost and are typically prepared through chain growth polymerization using one or more olefinic compounds preferably monomers . Non limiting examples of olefinic compounds which may be used to prepare latex polymers include ethylene butadiene propene butene iso butene acrylic acid methacrylic acid methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate propyl acrylate butyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate methyl methacrylate ethyl methacrylate propyl methacrylate butyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate hydroxyethyl acrylate hydroxyethyl methacrylate hydroxypropyl acrylate hydroxybutyl acrylate hydroxybutyl methacrylate glycidyl methacrylate 4 hydroxybutyl acrylate glycidylether acrylamide methylacrylamide styrene methyl styrene vinyl toluene vinyl acetate vinyl propionate allyl methacrylate acetoacetyl ethyl methacrylate AAEM diacetone acrylamide dimethylaminomethacrylate diethylaminomethacrylate N hydroxy meth acrylamide vinyl ether maleate vinyl esters of VERSATIC acid VERSATIC acid is a synthetic saturated monocarboxylic acid of highly branched structure containing about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms and mixtures thereof. Preferably the latex polymer is a meth acrylic polymer.

The latex polymers are typically stabilized using one or more nonionic or anionic emulsifiers viz. surfactants used either alone or together. Examples of nonionic emulsifiers include tert octylphenoxyethylpoly 39 ethoxyethanol dodecyloxypoly 10 ethoxyethanol nonylphenoxyethyl poly 40 ethoxyethanol polyethylene glycol 2000 monooleate ethoxylated castor oil fluorinated alkyl esters and alkoxylates polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan monolaurate sucrose monococoate di 2 butyl phenoxypoly 20 ethoxyethanol hydroxyethylcellulosepolybutyl acrylate graft copolymer dimethyl silicone polyalkylene oxide graft copolymer poly ethylene oxide poly butyl acrylate block copolymer block copolymers of propylene oxide and ethylene oxide 2 4 7 9 tetramethyl 5 decyne 4 7 diol ethoxylated with 30 moles of ethylene oxide N polyoxyethylene 20 lauramide N lauryl N polyoxyethylene 3 amine and poly 10 ethylene glycol dodecyl thioether Examples of anionic emulsifiers include sodium lauryl sulfate sodium dodecylbenzenesulfonate potassium stearate sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate sodium dodecyldiphenyloxide disulfonate nonylphenoxyethylpoly 1 ethoxyethyl sulfate ammonium salt sodium styrene sulfonate sodium dodecyl allyl sulfosuccinate linseed oil fatty acid sodium or ammonium salts of phosphate esters of ethoxylated nonylphenol sodium octoxynol 3 sulfonate sodium cocoyl sarcocinate sodium 1 alkoxy 2 hydroxypropyl sulfonate sodium alpha olefin C C sulfonate sulfates of hydroxyalkanols tetrasodium N 1 2 dicarboxy ethyl N octadecylsulfosuccinamate disodium N octadecylsulfosuccinamate disodium alkylamido polyethoxy sulfosuccinate disodium ethoxylated nonylphenol half ester of sulfosuccinic acid and the sodium salt of tert octylphenoxyethoxypoly 39 ethoxyethyl sulfate and the like. In addition combinations of emulsifiers can be used.

If desired the latex polymers may be stabilized with an alkali soluble polymer. Alkali soluble polymers may be prepared by making a polymer with acrylic or methacrylic acid or other polymerizable acid monomer usually greater than 10 and solubilizing the polymer by addition of ammonia or other base. See e.g. U.S. patent application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 and US 2006 0135686 A1. Examples of alkali soluble polymers include JONCRYL 675 and JONCRYL 678. One exemplary process for preparing alkali soluble polymers is outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 5 962 571.

A water soluble free radical initiator is typically used in the polymerization of a latex polymer. Exemplary water soluble free radical initiators are described below. The amount of initiator is preferably from 0.01 wt. to 3 wt. based on the total amount of monomer. In a redox system the amount of reducing agent is preferably from 0.01 wt. to 3 wt. based on the total amount of monomer. The reaction temperature may be in the range of 10 C. to 100 C.

Exemplary commercially available latex polymers include AIRFLEX EF811 available from Air Products EPS 2505 available from EPS CCA and NEOCAR 2300 NEOCAR 820 and NEOCAR 2535 available from Dow Chemical Co. . Other exemplary latex polymers include the latex polymers described in co pending U.S. patent application No. US 2007 0110981 A1.

The latex polymer may optionally also be functionalized with olefinic groups or other crosslinkable groups where it is desired to enable the latex polymer to participate in radiation curing. Exemplary functionalized latex polymers include ROSHIELD 3120 available from Rohm Haas and the AAEM functional latex polymers disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 and US 2006 0135686 A1 and in the above mentioned application No. US 2007 0110981 A1.

The disclosed coating systems may optionally contain a water dispersible polymer. Exemplary water dispersible polymers include polyurethanes polyamides chlorinated polyolefins meth acrylics vinyls oil modified polymers polyesters and mixtures or copolymers thereof. The water dispersible polymer typically will include as a part of the polymer a group or groups which render the polymer dispersible by itself in water. Preferably the water dispersible polymer is a water dispersible polyurethane.

Water dispersible polyurethanes may be made in a variety of ways. One method for preparing water dispersible polyurethanes involves reacting one or more isocyanates with one or more hydroxy compounds that include an appropriate functional group. Exemplary such functional groups include salt forming groups. For example basic salt forming groups can be introduced by reacting a suitable compound e.g. a polyisocyanate with a compound containing active hydrogen groups and active basic groups neutralized with an acid. Exemplary compounds having active hydrogen groups and active basic groups include aliphatic cycloaliphatic and heterocyclic amino alcohols diols and triols amines diamines triamines tetramines and amides. Exemplary neutralizing acids include organic acids such as formic acid and acetic acid and inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid and sulfuric acid. Polyurethanes can also be made water dispersible by incorporating amine or acid functionality. Water based anionically stabilized polyurethane polymers can be prepared by reacting polyols and dihydroxy carboxylic acid compounds with an excess of diisocyanate to provide a carboxylic acid functional prepolymer having NCO terminal groups. The acid groups can be neutralized with tertiary amines to provide salt groups and the neutralized prepolymer can be dispersed in water. The anionic stabilizing group of the water dispersible polyurethane polymers may be replaced with a cationic stabilizing group or a nonionic stabilizing group to facilitate water dispersibility. Thus a polyurethane may be rendered water dispersible by ionic stabilization using either an acid or a base.

It should be noted that the use of cationic stabilizing groups or nonionic stabilizing groups to facilitate combination of a water dispersible polymer with water is not the same as a requirement to use a secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent to form an aqueous latex polymer.

The water dispersible polymer may optionally also be functionalized with olefinic groups or other crosslinkable groups where it is desired to enable the water dispersible polymer to participate in radiation curing. For example olefinic groups may be introduced into a water dispersible polyurethane by reacting a hydroxy functional meth acrylate hydroxy functional allyl ether hydroxy functional vinyl ether monoglycerides or diglycerides with the aforementioned isocyanate or by reacting an ester polyol or oil modified polymer including alkyd oil modified polymers containing auto oxidative carbon carbon double bonds with the aforementioned isocyanate. Preferred olefinic groups include meth acrylate groups and groups containing auto oxidative carbon carbon double bonds. Exemplary isocyanates include diisocyanates triisocyanates and other polyisocyanates. Preferred polyisocyanates have about 4 to 25 carbon atoms and about 2 to 4 isocyanate groups per molecule and include aliphatic cycloaliphatic and aromatic isocyanates and mixtures thereof.

Exemplary hydroxy functional meth acrylates include alkyl and cycloalkyl hydroxy functional meth acrylates such as 2 hydroxyethyl meth acrylates 3 hydroxypropyl meth acrylates 4 hydroxybutyl meth acrylates 2 hydroxy 2 methylethyl meth acrylates and 4 hydroxycyclohexyl meth acrylates as well as other similar hydroxy functional aliphatic meth acrylates. Other hydroxy functional meth acrylates include hydroxy functional meth acrylate polyesters such as caprolactone 2 meth acryloyloxy ethyl esters dicaprolactone 2 meth acryloyloxy ethyl esters higher molecular weight caprolactone homologues and hydroxy functional meth acrylate polyethers.

Exemplary hydroxy functional meth allyl ethers contain at least one hydroxyl group and one or more allyl ether groups such as hydroxyethyl allyl ether hydroxypropyl allyl ether trimethylolpropane monoallyl ether trimethylolpropane diallyl ether trimethylolethane monoallyl ether trimethylolpropane dimethallyl ether TMPDE and the like.

Exemplary hydroxy functional vinyl ether compounds contain at least one hydroxyl group and one or more vinyl ether groups such as 4 hydroxybutyl vinyl ether cyclohexanedimethanol monovinyl ether ethylene glycol monovinyl ether diethylene glycol monovinyl ether and the like.

Exemplary ester polyols containing auto oxidative carbon carbon double bonds may be made by reaction of an aromatic or aliphatic polyol containing at least two hydroxyl groups per molecule with an unsaturated fatty acid containing auto oxidative carbon carbon double bonds. Exemplary polyols include ethylene glycol ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 3 propane diol 1 3 butylene glycol 1 4 butane diol bisphenol A trimethylol propane trimethylol ethane pentaerythritol glycerin neopentyl glycol cyclohexane dimethanol and mixtures thereof. Exemplary unsaturated fatty acids include linoleic palmitoleic linolenic eleostearic arachidonic ricinoleic 10 12 octadecadienoic acid and mixtures thereof.

Water dispersible polyurethanes containing olefinic groups can also be prepared by utilizing the reaction product formed via transesterification of an oil containing auto oxidative carbon carbon double bonds with an aromatic or aliphatic polyol containing at least two hydroxyl groups per molecule. Exemplary oils include linseed oil soybean oil safflower oil tall oil sunflower oil dehydrated caster oil castor oil ricine oil tung oil sardine oil olive oil cottonseed oil and mixtures thereof. Exemplary polyols include ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 3 propane diol 1 3 butylene glycol 1 4 butane diol bisphenol A trimethylol propane trimethylol ethane pentaerythritol glycerin neopentyl glycol cyclohexane dimethanol and mixtures thereof.

Oil modified polymers may also be used as latex polymers or if appropriately stabilized as water dispersible polymers. As used herein oil modified polymers include polymers that contain oils or oil based derivatives such as glyceride oils monoglycerides diglycerides and the like fatty acids fatty amines and mixtures thereof. Examples of such oil modified polymers include alkyds oil modified polyurethanes oil modified polyamides oil modified acrylics and mixtures or copolymers thereof. Preferably the oil modified polymer is an oil modified polyurethane or an alkyd. Oil modified polymers are readily synthesized and can be made to be water dispersible if desired using conventional techniques.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably contain about 90 to about 30 by weight latex polymer based on the total weight of the non volatile components in the coating system more preferably about 80 to about 35 by weight and most preferably about 70 to about 40 by weight. If a water dispersible polymer is also employed it may be present in an amount less than the amount of latex polymer.

A variety of olefinic compounds may be used in the disclosed coating systems. The olefinic compounds are distinct from the latex polymer and are carbon containing compounds having at least one site of unsaturation which can react optionally in the presence of an initiator to provide polymeric or crosslinked products. Non limiting examples of olefinic compounds include monomers such as meth acrylates vinyls vinyl ethers allyl ethers vinyl esters unsaturated oils including mono di and tri glycerides unsaturated fatty acids and the like or mixtures thereof. The olefinic compounds also include oligomers or polymers having at least one site of unsaturation which can react optionally in the presence of an initiator to provide polymeric or crosslinked products.

Exemplary olefinic monomers include meth acrylate esters of unsubstituted or substituted C Calcohols such as tripropylene glycol isobornyl alcohol isodecyl alcohol phenoxyethyl alcohol tris hydroxyethyl isocyanurate trimethylolpropane ethoxylate ditrimethylolpropane ethoxylate hexanediol ethoxylated neopentyl glycol propoxylated neopentyl glycol ethoxylated phenol polyethylene glycol bisphenol A ethoxylate trimethylolpropane propoxylated glycerol pentaerythritol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol carboxyethyl alcohol or combination thereof. For example the olefinic monomer may be isobornyl meth acrylate isodecyl meth acrylate phenoxyethyl meth acrylate trimethylolpropane tri meth acrylate alkoxylated cyclohexane dimethanol di meth acrylate trimethylolpropane ethoxylate tri meth acrylate dipropylene glycol di meth acrylate tripropylene glycol di meth acrylate hexanediol di meth acrylate tetrahydrofurfuryl meth acrylate pentaerythritol tri meth acrylate pentaerythritol tetra meth acrylate ditrimethylolpropane tetra meth acrylate propoxylated glycerol tri meth acrylate beta carboxyethyl meth acrylate bisphenol A ethoxylate di meth acrylate ethoxylated neopentyl glycol di meth acrylate propoxylated neopentyl glycol di meth acrylate or combination thereof. Preferred olefinic monomers include trimethylolpropane tri meth acrylate bisphenol A ethoxylate di meth acrylate propoxylated glycerol tri meth acrylate trimethylolpropane ethoxylate tri meth acrylate ditrimethylolpropane tetra meth acrylate or combination thereof. The olefinic monomer may contain a C C alcohol radical such as hydroxymethyl 1 hydroxyethyl 2 hydroxyethyl 1 hydroxypropyl 2 hydroxypropyl 3 hydroxypropyl 1 hydroxybutyl 4 hydroxybutyl 1 hydroxypentyl 5 hydroxypentyl 1 hydroxyhexyl 6 hydroxyhexyl 1 6 dihydroxyhexyl 1 4 dihydroxybutyl and the like.

Exemplary allyl ether monomers contain one or more allyl ether groups which typically are bonded to a core structural group which can be based on a wide variety of polyhydric alcohols. Non limiting examples of suitable polyhydric alcohols include neopentyl glycol trimethylolpropane ethylene glycol propylene glycol butylene glycol diethylene glycol trimethylene glycol triethylene glycol trimethylolethane pentaerythritol glycerol diglycerol 1 4 butanediol 1 6 hexanediol 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and any of the other polyols mentioned above in connection with the meth acrylate esters. Other exemplary allyl ether monomers include hydroxyethyl allyl ether hydroxypropyl allyl ether trimethylolpropane monoallyl ether trimethylolpropane diallyl ether trimethylolethane monoallyl ether trimethylolethane diallyl ether glycerol monoallyl ether glycerol diallyl ether pentaerythritol monoallyl ether pentaerythritol diallyl ether pentaerythritol triallyl ether 1 2 6 hexanetriol monoallyl ether 1 2 6 hexanetriol diallyl ether and the like. Preferred allyl ethers include poly propoxylated and ethoxylated forms of allyl ethers.

Exemplary vinyl ether monomers contain one or more vinyl ether groups and include 4 hydroxybutyl vinyl ether 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol monovinyl ether 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol divinyl ether ethylene glycol monovinyl ether ethylene glycol divinyl ether diethylene glycol monovinyl ether diethylene glycol divinyl ether triethylene glycol divinyl ether and the like. Preferred vinyl ether monomers include propoxylated or ethoxylated forms of vinyl ether monomers.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably contain about 2 to about 50 by weight separate olefinic compounds based on the total weight of the non volatile components in the coating system more preferably about 5 to about 40 by weight and most preferably about 10 to about 35 by weight.

A subset of the previously mentioned olefinic compounds e.g. hexanediol di meth acrylate trimethylolpropane tri meth acrylate and ditrimethylolpropane tetra meth acrylate have multiple e.g. two or more reactive groups. These monomers or oligomers can function as crosslinking agents. Crosslinking can also occur when the latex polymer or optional water dispersible polymer have been functionalized so that the polymer can participate in radiation curing. As used herein the term reactive sites or active groups refers to a group that can react to form a covalent bond linking or otherwise chemically joining two or more molecules.

The disclosed coating systems may include one or more optional water soluble silicate salts. Visual observation of coating compositions containing such silicate salts indicated that inclusion of the silicate salt led to improved absorption of the coating composition into cement fiberboard substrates. Examples of silicate salts include lithium silicate potassium silicate sodium silicate ammonium silicate and the like. In preferred embodiments the amount of silicate salt is from about 2 to about 50 by weight more preferably from about 5 to about 40 by weight and most preferably from about 10 to about 35 by weight based on the total weight of the non volatile components. Silicate salts are available through a variety of chemical suppliers. For example sodium silicate sometimes referred to as waterglass is available in a variety of forms including sodium orthosilicate NaSiO sodium metasilicate NaSiO sodium polysilicate NaSiO n and sodium pyrosilicate NaSiO . Sodium silicate and potassium silicate sometimes referred to as potassium waterglass are available from PQ Corporation Valley Forge Pa.

Wet adhesion testing and freeze thaw cycles have been shown under laboratory conditions to simulate long term outdoor exposure encountered in northern climates. A Wet Adhesion Test may be carried out as follows to evaluate adhesion of the coating system after a coated cement fiberboard substrate has been saturated with water. According to this test procedure coated substrates e.g. fiber cement boards are soaked in room temperature water for 24 hours. After soaking the boards are removed from the water and kept at room temperature for 24 hours. A six inch 15.24 cm length of 3M HD 250 tape is applied to the surface of the board with the long axis of the tape in the direction of any embossing patterns that may be present. The tape is firmly pressed onto the board ensuring full contact. The tape is then removed by quickly pulling it off at a 90 degree angle to the board. Wet Adhesion performance is rated based on the percent of coating removed from the cement board. Performance is further assessed by noting where any failure occurs. For example failure may occur between interfacial coating layers between the coating and the surface of the board or within the board itself. Preferred coating systems or coating compositions typically have less than 25 coating removal more preferably less than 15 coating removal. In addition the failure preferably is within the board as indicated by a significant amount of fiber from the board adhering to the removed coating.

Preferred coated articles can withstand at least 30 freeze thaw cycles when tested according to ASTM D6944 03 Test Method A. As written this ASTM test method recites a 30 cycle sequence. However rather than simply grade a specimen as a pass at the end of 30 cycles the test desirably is lengthened to include additional cycles. More preferably the coated articles can withstand at least 75 freeze thaw cycles most preferably at least 125 freeze thaw cycles and optimally at least 175 freeze thaw cycles.

The disclosed coating systems or coating compositions preferably have improved viz. lower volatile organic content VOC . The coating systems or coating compositions desirably have a VOC of less than about 5 based on the total weight of the coating system preferably a VOC of less than about 2 more preferably a VOC of less than about 0.5 .

The olefinic compounds are curable by radiation e.g. visible light ultra violet light electron beam and the like. An initiator system is not required for electron beam curing but for other radiation sources typically will be chosen based on the particular type of curing energy e.g. UV visible light or other energy and curing mechanism e.g. free radical cationic or other curing mechanism employed. Thus in one preferred embodiment the coating system is election beam curable and does not require an initiator. In another preferred embodiment the coating system is UV curable and free radically polymerizable and includes a UV photoinitiator system which generates free radicals in response to UV light and thereby cures the coating.

Non limiting examples of initiators include peroxide compounds azo compounds cationic generating initiators cleavage type initiators hydrogen abstraction type initiators and the like. Exemplary peroxide compounds include t butyl perbenzoate t amyl perbenzoate cumene hydroperoxide t amyl peroctoate methyl ethyl ketone peroxide benzoyl peroxide cyclohexanone peroxide 2 4 pentanedione peroxide di t butyl peroxide t butyl hydroperoxide and di 2 ethylhexyl peroxydicarbonate. Preferably the curing agent is t butyl perbenzoate methyl ethyl ketone peroxide or cumene hydroperoxide. Methyl ethyl ketone peroxide conveniently is employed as a solution in dimethyl phthalate e.g. LUPERSOL DDM 9 from Ato Chem.

Exemplary azo compounds include 2 2 azo bis 2 4 dimethylpentane nitrile 2 2 azo bis 2 methylbutanenitrile and 2 2 azo bis 2 methylpropanenitrile .

Exemplary cationic generating photoinitiators include super acid generating photoinitiators such as triaryliodonium salts triarylsulfonium salts and the like. A preferred triarylsulfonium salt is triphenyl sulfonium hexafluorophosphate.

Exemplary cleavage type photoinitiators include diethoxyacetophenone DEAP dimethoxyphenylacetophenone IRGACURE 651 hydroxycyclo hexylphenylketone IRGACURE 184 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one DAROCUR 1173 a 25 75 blend of bis 2 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 2 4 4 trimethylpentyl phosphine oxide and 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one IRGACURE 1700 a 50 50 blend of hydroxycyclo hexylphenylketone and benzophenone IRGACURE 500 50 50 blend of 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl diphenyl phosphineoxide and 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenyl propan 1 one DAROCUR 4265 bis acryl phosphine IRGACURE 819 and phosphine oxide IRGACURE 2100 all available from Ciba Corporation Ardsley N.Y. Other cleavage type initiators include 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl diphenylphosphine oxide LUCIRIN TPO from BASF Corporation and a 70 30 blend of oligo 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 4 1 methylvinyl phenyl propan 1 one and 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one KIP 100 available from Sartomer Exton Pa. . Preferred cleavage type photoinitiators are hydroxycyclo hexylphenylketone 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one benzophenone 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl diphenylphosphine oxide bis acryl phosphine and a 70 30 blend of 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 4 1 methylvinyl phenyl propan 1 one and 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one.

Non limiting examples of hydrogen abstraction type photoinitiators include benzophenone substituted benzophenones e.g. ESCACURE TZT of Fratelli Lamberti and other diaryl ketones such as xanthones thioxanthones Michler s ketone benzil quinones and substituted derivatives of all of the above. Camphorquinone is an example of a compound that may be used when one desires to cure a coating composition with visible light.

For coating compositions or systems having a latex polymer and an olefinic compound including a mixture of two or more of a meth acrylate an allyl ether and a vinyl ether functional group a combination of curing procedures can be used. For example a coating composition having a latex polymer a meth acrylate and a vinyl ether functional group typically may include an cleavage type or hydrogen abstraction type photoinitiator for polymerization of the meth acrylate groups and a cationic generating photoinitiator for polymerization of the vinyl ether groups.

If desired the coating composition or system may also include a co initiator or photoinitiator synergist. Non limiting examples of co initiators include 1 tertiary aliphatic amines such as methyl diethanol amine and triethanol amine 2 aromatic amines such as amylparadimethylaminobenzoate 2 n butoxyethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 2 dimethylamino ethylbenzoate ethyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate and 2 ethylhexyl 4 dimethylamino benzoate 3 meth acrylated amines such as EBECRYL 7100 and UVECRYL P104 and P115 all from UCB RadCure Specialties and 4 amino functional acrylate or methacrylate resin or oligomer blends such as EBECRYL 3600 or EBECRYL 3703 both from UCB RadCure Specialties. Combinations of the above four categories of co initiators may also be used.

In the case of visible or UV radiation curing systems the preferred amount of photoinitiator present in the coating systems can be from about 0.2 to about 15 wt. of the non volatile components. More preferably the photoinitiator can be from about 0.5 to about 10 wt. and most preferably the photoinitiator can be from about 0.75 to about 5 wt. of the non volatile components.

Other methods for curing the coating systems can be used in combination with methods described herein. Such other curing methods include heat cure chemical cure anaerobic cure moisture cure oxidative cure and the like. Such methods may require inclusion of a corresponding curing initiator or curing agent in the composition. For example heat cure can be induced by peroxides metal curing packages can induce an oxidative cure or multifunctional amines for example isophorone diamine can effect a chemical crosslinking cure through Michael addition of amine groups onto acrylate reactive unsaturated groups. If these additional initiators are present in the coating system they typically make up about 0.1 12 by weight of the curable coating system. Means for effecting cures by such methods are known to those of skill in the art or can be determined using standard methods.

Other optional components for use in the coating systems herein are described in Koleske et al. Paint and Coatings Industry April 2003 pages 12 86 Typical performance enhancing additives that may be employed include surface active agents pigments colorants dyes surfactants dispersants defoamers thickeners heat stabilizers leveling agents coalescents biocides mildewcides anti cratering agents curing indicators plasticizers fillers sedimentation inhibitors ultraviolet light absorbers optical brighteners and the like to modify properties.

The coating systems may also contain an optional coalescent and many coalescents are known in the art. The optional coalescent is preferably a low VOC coalescent such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 762 230.

Compositions including a latex polymer will also include a secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent such as a nonionic or anionic surfactant as described above. In addition to dispersing or emulsifying the latex polymer particles in water the secondary dispersing or emulsifying agent may also assist in combining an olefinic compound with the latex polymer.

Exemplary coating compositions that can be used in the coating systems are listed below. This is not intended to be an exhaustive list of examples of aqueous based coating compositions. The examples include the following compositions 

Composition A An example of a coating composition for use in the coating system includes one or more olefinic compounds and an optional initiator. Monomeric and oligomeric olefinic compounds are preferred with monomeric olefinic compounds being most preferred. An exemplary preferred monomeric olefinic compound is trimethylolpropane tri acrylate TMPTA available from Sartomer . An exemplary preferred initiator is 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one DAROCUR 1173 available from Ciba .

Composition B1 Another example of a coating composition for use in the coating system includes an aqueous latex polymer e.g. EPS 2505 EPS 2502 EPS 2520 or EPS 2568 latex polymer available from EPS or AIRFLEX EF811 available from Air Products or ROSHIELD 3120 available from Rohm Haas or NEOCAR 2535 latex polymer available from Dow or the polymers described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1.

Composition B2 Another example of a coating composition for use in the coating system includes an aqueous mixture of i latex polymer e.g. those used in Composition B1 and ii water dispersible polymer e.g. a polyurethane dispersion such as EPS 4208 available from EPS or LUX 399 available from Alberdink Boley .

Composition B3 Another example of a coating composition for use in the coating system includes an aqueous mixture of i latex polymer e.g. those used in Composition B1 and ii a water soluble silicate salt such as described above e.g. potassium silicate .

Composition B4 Another example of a coating composition for use in the coating system includes an aqueous mixture of i latex polymer e.g. those used in Composition B1 ii water dispersible polymer e.g. those used in Composition B2 and iii a water soluble silicate salt e.g. potassium silicate .

Composition B5 Another example of a coating composition for use in the coating system includes a water dispersible polymer e.g. those used in Composition B2 .

Composition B6 Another example of a coating composition for use in the coating system includes an aqueous mixture of i water dispersible polymer e.g. those used in Composition B2 and ii a water soluble silicate salt e.g. potassium silicate .

Compositions C1 to C6 The aforementioned exemplary coating compositions B1 to B6 respectively further comprising one or more olefinic compounds and an optional initiator e.g. those used in Composition A .

The coating system can be applied as multiple applications of more than one coating composition which collectively contain at least one latex polymer and at least one olefinic compound or as a single application of a coating composition containing at least one latex polymer and at least one olefinic compound. Application of a coating composition containing at least one olefinic compound followed by application of a coating composition containing at least one latex polymer is preferred. Other modes or orders of application of the selected coating compositions can be readily determined by a person skilled in the art. Exemplary descriptions of several coating systems are provided below.

An example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer one or more olefinic monomers and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition B1 to the article followed by or preceded by application of coating composition A to the article.

Another example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer one or more olefinic oligomers and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition B1 to the article followed or preceded by application of coating composition C1 to the article.

Another example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer one or more olefinic monomers and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition C1 to the article.

Another example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer a water dispersible polymer one or more olefinic monomers and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition B1 to the article followed by or preceded by application of coating composition C2 to the article.

Another example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer a water dispersible polymer one or more olefinic monomers and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition B1 to the article followed or preceded by application of coating composition C5 to the article.

Another example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer a water dispersible polymer one or more olefinic monomers and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition B2 to the article followed or preceded by application of coating composition C2 to the article.

Another example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer one or more olefinic monomers a water soluble silicate salt and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition C3 to the article.

Another example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer a water dispersible polymer one or more olefinic oligomers a water soluble silicate salt and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition C2 to the article followed or preceded by application of coating composition B3 to the article.

Another example of a coating system that may be used to prepare a coated article includes a latex polymer one or more olefinic monomers a water soluble silicate salt and an optional initiator. This system includes the application of coating composition B3 to the article followed or preceded by application of coating composition C3 to the article.

A variety of application routes may be employed for preparing the coated articles. Specific application routes include 

Accordingly the articles can be prepared by applying the coating system as a single coating composition or the coating system can be applied as multiple compositions. In coating systems using multiple coating compositions i the applied coating composition s can be dried to remove at least a portion of the water prior to curing or addition of one or more additional coating compositions or ii the coating composition s can be applied prior to drying the previously applied coating composition s thus allowing the coating compositions to mix at an interface.

The disclosed aqueous coating composition s are preferably applied at about 5 to 50 solids by weight and more preferably at about 10 to 40 solids. Preferred coating composition s contain less than 5 volatile organic compounds based on the total composition weight more preferably less than 0.5 .

The coating systems may be applied by any number of application techniques including but not limited to brushing e.g. using a brush coater direct roll coating reverse roll coating flood coating vacuum coating curtain coating and spraying. The various techniques each offer a unique set of advantages and disadvantages depending upon the substrate profile morphology and tolerable application efficiencies. Lower viscosities facilitate uniform film control. The applied film thickness may be controlled for example by varying the application rate.

The disclosed coating systems may for example be applied to a cement fiberboard substrate by roll coating. A dry film thickness DFT of the coating system on the cement fiberboard substrate may for example be in the range of but not limited to about 0.2 to about 4 mil about 0.005 to about 0.1 mm more preferably about 0.3 to about 3 mil about 0.008 to about 0.08 mm .

It is preferred that the coated articles are coated on at least one major surface with the coating system. More preferably the coated articles are coated on a major surface and up to four minor surfaces including any edges. Most preferably the coated articles are coated on all e.g. both major surfaces and up to four minor surfaces including any edges.

A topcoat may be applied directly to the coating system. The coating systems and coating compositions described herein may be used in place of or in addition to coatings that the prior art has categorized as sealers primers and topcoats. However the systems and compositions may not fit neatly into any category per se and such terms should not be limiting.

After mixing for 30 minutes the coating system is allowed to de air. The coating system is then applied to a fiber cement article at a dry film thickness of 0.5 to 0.7 mils and a portion of the water is removed either by air drying a heated drying stage or by application to a warm substrate 38 C. . The resulting mixture will cure upon exposure to ultraviolet light. Application of a topcoat as described in the above mentioned U.S. Patent Application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1 should provide an improved freeze thaw and wet adhesion coating system for fiber cement.

The above procedure may be repeated but without using the photoinitiator. The resulting mixture should cure upon exposure to electron beam radiation and application of a topcoat as described in the above mentioned U.S. Patent Application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1 should provide an improved freeze thaw and wet adhesion coating system for fiber cement.

After mixing for 30 minutes the coating system is allowed to de air. The coating system is then applied to a fiber cement article at a dry film thickness of 0.5 to 0.7 mils and a portion of the water is removed either by air drying a heated drying stage or by application to a warm substrate 38 C. . The resulting mixture will cure upon exposure to ultraviolet light. Application of a topcoat as described in the above mentioned U.S. Patent Application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1 should provide an improved freeze thaw and wet adhesion coating system for fiber cement.

The above procedure may be repeated but without using the photoinitiator. The resulting mixture should cure upon exposure to electron beam radiation and application of a topcoat as described in the above mentioned U.S. Patent Application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1 should provide an improved freeze thaw and wet adhesion coating system for fiber cement.

After mixing for 30 minutes the coating system was allowed to de air. The coating system was applied to a fiber cement article at a dry film thickness of 0.5 to 0.7 mils. The coated article was heated in an oven at 300 F. 148.9 C. until the surface of the article was about 160 F. 71.1 C. . The resulting coating system was cured using ultraviolet light.

Application of a topcoat as described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1 should provide an improved freeze thaw and wet adhesion coating system for fiber cement.

The above procedure may be repeated but without using the photoinitiator. The resulting mixture should cure upon exposure to electron beam radiation and application of a topcoat as described in the above mentioned U.S. Patent Application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1 should provide an improved freeze thaw and wet adhesion coating system for fiber cement.

After mixing for 30 minutes the coating system is allowed to de air. The coating system is then applied to a fiber cement article at a dry film thickness of 0.5 to 0.7 mils and a portion of the water is removed either by air drying a heated drying stage or by application to a warm substrate 38 C. . The resulting mixture will cure upon exposure to ultraviolet light. Application of a topcoat as described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1 should provide an improved freeze thaw and wet adhesion coating system for fiber cement.

The above procedure may be repeated but without using the photoinitiator. The resulting mixture should cure upon exposure to electron beam radiation and application of a topcoat as described in the above mentioned U.S. patent application Nos. US 2006 0135684 A1 US 2006 0135686 A1 and US 2007 0110981 A1 should provide an improved freeze thaw and wet adhesion coating system for fiber cement.

It is also noted that the disclosed coating systems and coating compositions can be used with other coating compositions such as those disclosed in the following applications U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 60 764 044 60 764 131 and 60 764 242 each filed Jan. 31 2006 and 60 802 185 filed May 19 2006.

All patents patent applications and literature cited in the specification are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the case of any inconsistencies the present disclosure including any definitions therein will prevail. The invention has been described with reference to various specific and preferred embodiments and techniques. However it should be understood that many variations and modifications may be made while remaining within the invention.

