---

title: Composite application for group-based activity reservations
abstract: A reservation is made over a wireless network for a group-based activity, such as golf, using a network-independent composite application. The composite application registers with a geo-fencing application, and receives notifications from the geo-fencing application when certain triggering criteria have been satisfied. In certain embodiments, the triggering criteria relate to the presence of target subscriber within a predetermined area. The availability of certain target subscribers is also determined and, if available, such target subscribers are provided with the opportunity to opt-in to the group-based activity. A reservation may be automatically made for the group-based activity using an online reservation application for target subscribers who chose to participate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08270995&OS=08270995&RS=08270995
owner: Nextel Communications, Inc.
number: 08270995
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070426
---
The present invention relates generally to network services and more particularly to developing and providing a network independent composite application for making group based activity reservations.

Wireless communications are provided to users using several different network protocols such as 850 900 1800 and 1900 MHz Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Time Division Multiple Access Code TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA iDEN and so on. In addition there are varying mobile device technologies thereby causing subscribers to have different communication functionalities and or different protocols for implementing specific functionalities e.g. messaging navigation etc. 

In addition there are numerous network layer services that may be available to such subscribers depending on current network coverage as well as the subscribers mobile device capabilities. Such network layer services may include location based service messaging service conferencing service presence service etc.

Given the number of differing types of network coverages mobile device technologies and network layer services there is a need to develop and provide network independent composite applications to provide additional functionality to subscribers.

Disclosed and claimed herein are methods and computer program products for making a reservation over a wireless network for a group based activity using a network independent composite application. In one embodiment a method includes registering the composite application with a subscriber location network application and receiving by the composite application a notification from the subscriber location network application indicating that a target subscriber is within a predetermined area. The method further includes determining automatically based on the notification an availability of the target subscriber and providing if available the target subscriber with an option to participate in the group based activity. In addition the method includes making a reservation for the target subscriber to participate in the group based activity using an online reservation application in response to the target subscriber opting to participate.

Other aspects features and techniques of the invention will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art in view of the following description of the exemplary embodiments of the invention.

One aspect of the invention relates to providing a set of base network applications which are network independent and which third party applications developers may use as standard components in the development of so called composite applications. Such base network applications may include one or more network dependent services or may not rely on such network services at all. In certain embodiments base applications are network independent applications which provides specific network functionality to subscribers.

Another aspect of the invention relates to providing composite applications which may be a compilation of two or more base applications the combination of which itself provides a new subscriber service. Composite applications may be developed by accessing the particular base applications using a standard application programming interface API or similar network independent standard interface thereby enabling the composite applications to be developed without having to write network specific versions or variations thereof. In addition composite applications may be a compilation of one or more base applications in conjunction with one or more network services. In certain embodiments composite applications comprise specific logic hardware or software for accessing and interfacing with the underlying base applications and or network layer services.

As used herein the terms a or an shall mean one or more than one. The term plurality shall mean two or more than two. The term another is defined as a second or more. The terms including and or having are open ended e.g. comprising . The term or as used herein is to be interpreted as inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C means any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C . An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

Reference throughout this document to one embodiment certain embodiments an embodiment or similar term means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of such phrases or in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner on one or more embodiments without limitation.

In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the invention is described below with reference to operations that are performed by a computer system or a like electronic system. Such operations are sometimes referred to as being computer executed. It will be appreciated that operations that are symbolically represented include the manipulation by a processor such as a central processing unit of electrical signals representing data bits and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations such as in system memory as well as other processing of signals. The memory locations where data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic optical or organic properties corresponding to the data bits.

When implemented in software the elements of the invention are essentially the code segments to perform the necessary tasks. The code segments can be stored in a processor readable medium or transmitted by a computer data signal. The processor readable medium may include any medium that can store or transfer information. Examples of the processor readable medium include an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a ROM a flash memory or other non volatile memory a floppy diskette a CD ROM an optical disk a hard disk a fiber optic medium a radio frequency RF link etc.

Carrier network may be configured to provide a myriad of network layer services including but certainly not limited to location based service messaging service conferencing service presence service etc. In addition the initiating subscriber s device may be equipped to provide numerous features to the initiating subscriber in connection with the various network layer services which may be available at any given time. As previously mentioned such device features may include browser applications chat clients email clients Java personal information management applications and so on.

Continuing to refer to initiating subscriber may be desirous of communicating with target subscribers . In certain embodiments target subscribers may be connected to a different carrier network and serviced by separate base stations . Moreover as the initiating subscriber moves from having network coverage from carrier network to a different carrier network e.g. carrier network the available network layer services may similarly change. In addition it should be appreciated that carrier networks and may be GSM CDMA iDEN etc. and may be accessible using a variety of access technologies e.g. IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS .

As will be described in more detail below as target subscribers move between base stations a subscriber location network application may be used to notify the initiating subscriber of this information. In one embodiment one such application is the so called geo fencing application. Since mobile devices e.g. target subscribers automatically register with the appropriate base station s as they move into a new area this information may be used to generally determine what particular area a given mobile device is in. Networks require that base stations maintain a log of the mobile devices moving into and out of their coverage areas in order to properly control radio traffic e.g. message and data delivery dispatch communications etc. . In addition finer location information may be determined using global positioning system GPS technology as is known in the art.

One category of network layer services are messaging services which include Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS and Wireless Application Protocol WAP service. In addition the location based service may be based on GPS technology for example. In another embodiment the location based service may be based on the aforementioned fact that mobile subscribers are required to register with the appropriate base stations as they move into a new area. Group List Management Service GLMS refers to a service by which a group of target subscribers e.g. target subscribers may be defined by an initiating subscriber e.g. initiating subscriber or any administrator or designated delegate for group management. GLMS may be used to provide group operations including so called CRUD Create Retrieve Update and Delete operations.

Additional network layer services include conferencing services presence service GLMS policy service address translation service policy and QoS service charging service e.g. mobile e payment etc. In one embodiment so called presence service may be used to provide real time information about the status of subscribers. This information can include a range of details from whether a device is on or off through to more advanced information about users availability such as indicating whether they are driving or in a meeting. While in the embodiment of the network layer services include the SMS MMS messaging service location service and GLMS service it should be appreciated that numerous other network layer services may similarly be included.

Heretofore third party development of wireless applications required knowledge of the types of subscribers that will be accessing the subject application. That is the various wireless applications had to be written in compliance with the various communication technologies and protocols e.g. iDEN CDMA of the potential users. This is due to the fact that such wireless applications interface directly with the underlying network layer services e.g. network layer services which are network technology specific as mentioned above.

To that end one aspect of the invention is to provide a set of base network applications which are network independent and which third party applications developers may use as standard components in the development of so called composite applications . Such base network applications may include one or more network layer services or in contrast may not rely on the network layer services . In certain embodiments base applications are network independent applications which provides specific network functionality to subscribers. In certain embodiments a base application may be a compilation of two or more network layer services which manifest as a new function or subscriber service.

Composite applications in turn may be a compilation of two or more base applications the combination of which itself provides a new subscriber service. Composite applications may be developed by accessing the particular base applications using a standard API or similar network independent standard interface thereby enabling the composite applications to be developed without having to write network specific versions or variations thereof. In addition composite applications may be a compilation of one or more base applications in conjunction with one or more network services . Like base applications composite applications may be network independent. Finally a given composite application may be considered a base application when combined with other base applications and or network layer services. In any event composite applications may comprise specific logic hardware or software for accessing and interfacing with the underlying base applications and or network layer services .

Continuing to refer to the network application architecture further includes a service catalog which may comprise an online resource such as a portal from which would be third party developers of composite applications may access network layer services and or available base applications as well as access any APIs needed for interfacing with such base applications and any other instructions relating thereto. In one embodiment the various available network layer services and available base applications may be cataloged by the service catalog in a table database or other organized fashion along with the API s required for invoking such functionality.

Referring now to depicted is another embodiment the network application architecture of . However the embodiment of depicts how certain network layer services may be used in combination to provide base applications for generating in turn the profile based navigation composite application . In particular the subscriber profile base application is a network independent application through which a subscriber may provide user preference data such as hobbies favorites interests etc. Base applications may further include a plurality of navigation applications such as TeleNav or a so called Garmin application. In one embodiment the navigation applications may be network independent applications which includes logic for calling the location service .

To that end using specific logic the profile based navigation composite application may invoke the SMS MMS messaging network service directly over the service bus as well as both the subscriber profile application and the navigation application . The logic combination underlying the profile based navigation composite application provides the network independent functionality of providing subscribers with profile based navigation services. Since subscribers may have a different types of navigation applications the profile based navigation composite application may invoke the subscriber profile application by providing it with a destination address and a list of subscribers that need to be navigated to that destination address. The subscriber profile application may in turn provide the profile based navigation composite application with an indication of what type of navigation application the subject subscriber uses e.g. TeleNav Garmin etc. . In this fashion the profile based navigation composite application will know which navigation application to interact with in order to provide the subject subscriber with navigation services.

Referring now to depicted is another embodiment of the network application architecture of . However in this embodiment the network application architecture relates to a group reservation composite application that is provided in accordance with the principles of the invention. In one embodiment the group reservation composite application comprises the logic to enable an initiating subscriber e.g. initiating subscriber to invite a group of target subscribers e.g. target subscribers to participate in a reservation based activity which may also be a fee based activity. While one exemplary embodiment of a group reservation composite application relates to the context of reserving a golf tee time for a defined group it should equally be appreciated that numerous other contexts would be consistent with the principles of the invention.

The base applications of usable in providing a group reservation composite application include the geo fencing application . In one embodiment the geo fencing application is a subscriber location network application through which subscriber notification is provided based on the presence of one or more mobile subscribers within a specified area i.e. geo fence . In one embodiment the geo fencing application is network independent and may be invoked through either of two network logic channels. The first channel is through an online portal in which a subscriber provides certain login information. Thereafter the subscriber may configure a list of target subscribers to monitor or the group name for a desired group of target subscribers. In addition the initiating subscriber may have to provide the specific criteria for triggering the geo fence notification. The second channel is by having a separate network application e.g. group reservation composite application register directly with the geo fencing application .

The other base applications of include an e payment application for initiating online payment transactions a click to conference CTC application for inviting target subscribers to participate in a live conference call with other subscribers an opt in application whereby target subscribers may accept or decline a proposed transaction an entertainment directory service for locating businesses in defined areas and a reservation center application for making online reservations for the subject activity.

It should be noted that the previously described composite profile based navigation application is depicted as being a base application in the embodiment of . This is due to the fact that the profile based navigation application is now being combined with other applications and services to provide a new more complex composite application i.e. group reservation composite application . However the profile based navigation application may still be comprised of the same logic described above with reference to

Finally the base applications of further include a persona application which may be based on the previously described subscriber profile base application in combination with the previously described presence service . In short the persona application may comprise logic for providing information to the composite application representative of the target subscribers availability determined in accordance with their specific user preferences. It should be appreciated that the billing service may be a network layer service for implementing the previously mentioned e payment application .

Once the triggering criteria has been met for the geo fencing application the composite application may receive a notification that is sent from the geo fencing application at block indicating that the triggering criteria have been met. In one embodiment the triggering criteria may relate to detecting that one or more of the target subscribers have entered a predefined area.

At this point process may continue to block where a determination may be made as to the target subscriber s availability. In one embodiment the target subscriber s availability may be determined by having the group reservation composite application invoke a persona application e.g. persona application to check the presence status of the target subscriber s .

Assuming that the at least one of the target subscribers is available process may then continue to block where the group reservation composite application may interact with the target subscriber s to decide whether to continue. In one embodiment the composite application may invoke an opt in application such as opt in application of .

Again assuming that at least one of the target subscribers desires to continue with the reservation process may then move to block where a reservation may be placed for those group members who has decided to participate e.g. opted in at block . In one embodiment the operation of block may be performed by invoking an online reservation application such as reservation center application of . During or following the operation of block the group reservation composite application may initiate an online payment application e.g. e payment application during which the group members will be charged accordingly.

In another embodiment process may continue as depicted in . In particular process may further include locating the destination using an online directory service such as entertainment directory application at block . Once located the group reservation composite application performing process may send the group members information on the other group members as well as destination information at block . In one embodiment the destination information of block may include directions to the destination provided be a navigation application e.g. profile based navigation application . Finally process may continue to block where a conference call may be initiated between the group members using the previously described CTC application during which the group members may make additional arrangements or exchange other information relating to the reservation based activity.

Referring now to depicted is one embodiment of a network application architecture for implementing a group reservation composite application e.g. composite application in the form of a golf tee time reservation application. As shown the composite application logic includes logic for registering with geo fencing application over service bus . Composite application logic further includes trigger notification logic to receive a notification from the geo fencing application over service bus indicating that the triggering criteria have been met. Persona logic may then be used to determination the availability of the target subscribers using the previously described persona application .

For those target subscribers which are available composite application logic further includes user approval logic may then determine which target subscribers desire to continue with the reservation process. In one embodiment this may be accomplished by messaging the target subscribers using SMS MMS service via network gateway .

Logic may then be used to locate the golf course using for example entertainment directory service . In one embodiment logic may comprise logic for finding an online reservation portal for the golf course such as reservation center applications or it may include determining the physical location for the subject golf course.

Continuing to refer to composite application is depicted as further including logic for reserving a tee time for the group members which in one embodiment invokes reservation center applications for the subject golf course. During or following the reservation operation performed by logic the composite application may further include logic for initiate an online payment application such for example mobile e payment application so that the group members can each be charged for their respective round of golf.

Composite application also includes logic for sending navigation information to each group member using the profile based navigation application . Finally logic may be used to conference in the group members using the previously described CTC application in order to facilitate the exchange of other information relating to the members upcoming round of golf.

While the invention has been described in connection with various embodiments it should be understood that the invention is capable of further modifications. This application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptation of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within the known and customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains.

