---

title: Analyte collection devices and methods
abstract: An aspect of the invention is directed to an analyte collection device of the type that includes at least one plate for storing the analyte and a heating element for heating the at least one plate. An example device comprises a controller linked to the heating element that heats the at least one plate to a first temperature, takes a measurement of a property of the at least one plate, and uses the measurement to estimate one or more of the amount of the analyte on the plate and the amount of contaminant on the plate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08088341&OS=08088341&RS=08088341
owner: University of Louisville Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 08088341
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070725
---
This invention was made with Government assistance under NRL Grant No. N00173 02 2 C002. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

A field of the invention is analyte collection. The invention is useful for example in analyte detection and analysis systems and methods as might be used for the collection detection and analysis of a wide range of vapors or gases particulate and liquid bound analytes. Another field of the invention is analyte storage and delivery. The invention is useful for example to store and deliver hazardous materials including explosive related materials toxic industrial chemicals TICS or chemical or biological agents or toxins in a controlled manner. Another field of the invention is methods systems and program products for operating analyte collection devices.

In many analytical systems discovering the nature of an unknown substance normally requires the substance to first be collected. There are detector systems that analyze a fluid flow analyte stream i.e. vapors or gases particulates and liquid bound analytes. Some detector systems are based for example on an optical analysis that determines analyte characteristics by subjecting a quantity of the analyte to a light beam and measuring the scattering or fluorescence effects. Chromatography detector systems for example are sometimes based upon the optical effects produced by analyte samples. Other detector systems utilize chemical analysis thermal properties and the like. There are both quantitative and qualitative analysis detector systems.

Before a sample may be analyzed by chromatography or by many other types of analytical techniques the sample must be collected and then delivered to a detector system. Many samples of interest are available outside of a controlled setting or are present in such low concentrations that special emphasis must be placed on sample collection with an example being safety testing of environments that humans occupy. There is a recently heightened awareness of the potential for the intentional detonation of explosives or release of chemical or biological agents into environments occupied by humans. The environments might include open or enclosed spaces in work environments public environments or military environments etc. Many building environments with ducted HVAC heating ventilation and air conditioning have the potential for the intentional release of TICS or chemical and biological agents into closed or open spaces occupied by military or civilian personnel. Manufacturing operations also have the potential to permit the escape of hazardous chemicals or biological agents into a manufacturing environment or to an external environment surrounding a manufacturing plant.

In some situations detection may be desirable in a matter of seconds but in others an extended period of time may be used for collection before performing an analysis. An example of the latter case involves workers that may be exposed over a time period to unacceptable levels of harmful agents. Another example of the latter case is when cargo containers are transported from country to country by sea it may be desirable to collect a sample over a period of several days prior to analysis.

In both uncontrolled settings and controlled settings analytical resolution and the sensitivity of detection is dependent upon the efficiency of analyte collection and the efficacy of delivery of collected analyte to a detection system. It is desirable for example to detect very low levels of toxic or hazardous materials in a particular environment. Gas chromatography and other analytical techniques can employ a variety of detector types and have been demonstrated to be very sensitive types of analysis techniques for example. Another example is a chemresistor based device which uses a detector whose resistivity changes when it is exposed to particular chemical vapors. Whatever the type of detector system however concentrating analyte in a stage prior to the detector system can improve detection limits for the analyte s of interest and can also provide a more reliable quantitative or qualitative determination of an analyte.

Others have worked on concentrating analytes and have proposed systems including a micro scale collection device. A group working at Sandia National Laboratory in Albuquerque N. Mex. has developed chemical preconcentrators including a preconcentrator heated plate that incorporates a sorbent material coating. This work is discussed for example in Manginell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 257 835 entitled Chemical Preconcentrator with Integral Thermal Flow Sensor and in Manginell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 171 378 entitled Chemical Preconcentrator which are incorporated herein by reference. The chemical preconcentrator used in that work is formed from a substrate having a suspended membrane such as low stress silicon nitride. A resistive heating element is deposited over the membrane and coated with a sorbent such as a hydrophobic sol gel coating or a polymer coating. A fluid flow is passed over the sorbent to achieve a collection. A high concentration may then be delivered to a detector system by desorbing which is achieved by heating the resistive heating element.

One advantage of this work by Manginell and others is that it can provide a relatively high concentration of analyte by collecting it over a long period and then delivering it in a short amount of time. Another advantage is the MEMS microelectromechanical systems micro scale of the device and the MEMS fabrication techniques that permit integration of the device with other system components for example to form a micro analytical system.

In another style of analyte collector a column that is packed with a porous adsorbent is used to collect analyte by flowing air through the column and thermally desorbing collected material. The pressure drop associated with this sort of device is typically too high for high flow applications and requires higher power consumption. If the amount of adsorbent is minimized to allow higher flows or faster desorption the dynamic range is compromised.

However known prior devices have some drawbacks associated with them. With embodiments of the present invention some or all of these drawbacks are overcome. Some problems in the art relate to the difficulty of determining the quantity of material collected in a collection device prior to delivery to a detector. In order to perform many chemical analysis and other types of tests a minimum and or an optimal amount of sample is called for. Measurement of the quantity of material available for delivery to a detector is useful for determination the presence of a sufficient or optimal amount of analyte. If a sufficient and or optimal amount has been collected further collection is not necessary.

With many prior art collection and preconcentrator systems determining the amount of analyte collected is difficult or even impossible. A direct measurement of mass can potentially be used in some applications e.g. compare device mass before and after collection . In many applications however the relatively minuscule mass of analyte collected when compared to the mass of the device make this an unattractive and impractical option.

Another unresolved problem in the art relates to the ability to detect non volatile and other contaminants that accumulate over time on the sorbent. Dust and other non volatile particulate may contaminate the sorbent over time and begin to lower collection efficiency of the sorbent as its active sites are affected by the contaminants. Determining when contaminants are present and in what quantity however is difficult. Because of this difficulty systems of the prior art are often scheduled for cleaning and removal of contaminants on an arbitrary schedule that risks cleaning the devices too frequently or not frequently enough. Inefficiencies therefore result.

An aspect of the invention is directed to a method for operating an analyte collection device of the type that includes at least one plate for storing analyte. An example method comprises the steps of heating the at least one plate to a first temperature taking a measurement of a property of the at least one plate at one or more of during the step of heating the at least one plate and after the at least one plate has been heated to the first temperature and using the measurement to estimate one or more of the amount of the analyte on the plate and the amount of contaminant on the plate. In some embodiments of the invention steps of measuring changes in the thermal time constant or thermal conductivity of the plate can be indicative of collected material.

Another example system of the invention is directed to an analyte collection device comprising one or more preconcentrators such as plates which may be but are not necessarily on a micro scale. The plates optionally may include a sorbent coating on at least a portion of them. A heating element for heating the one or more micro scale plates is also provided. A controller is linked to the heating element and configured to heat the one or more plates to a first temperature and to measure one or more properties of the plate and to use the one or more properties to estimate the quantity of analyte collected on the sorbent coating. The controller is further configured to heat the micro scale plate to at least a second temperature that is greater than the first temperature to cause the analyte to be released from the sorbent.

Another embodiment of the invention is directed to a computer program product including computer readable instructions stored on a memory medium the program product for use with a collector device of the type that includes at least one plate with sorbent thereon for collecting analyte the analyte released when the collector device heats the plate to a desorbing temperature. The program instructions when executed by one or more computers are useful to cause the collector device to be heated to an elevated temperature that is substantially below the desorbing temperature to measure a property of the plate and to use the measured property to determine whether sufficient analyte has been collected to proceed with testing.

Before discussing example embodiments of the invention in detail it will be appreciated that the present invention may be practiced in the form of one or more of a method a system or a program product. It will further be appreciated that description herein of one embodiment of the invention may likewise be useful to illustrate a different embodiment. By way of example a method of the invention may include steps of using a system of the invention. A program product of the invention may comprise program instructions useful for carrying out a method of the invention and or for operating a system of the invention. Accordingly description of a method system or program product made herein will be understood to likewise apply to other forms of the invention.

One example system of the method is a collection device having a flow through micro scale plate arranged to collect analyte and deliver a concentrated pulse of analyte to a detector system upon demand through heating. Analyte fluid flow is passed over or through at least one sorbent plate which may include passages to pass analyte fluid flow for example analyte vapor. Some embodiments of the invention use a series of two or more flow through micro scale plates. In some example embodiments micro scale plates include a sorbent coating and holes for analyte fluid flow through the plates. After a period of collection analyte may be provided to a detector system from the plate by heating the plate. Example embodiment plates include an integrated heater trace.

The plates may be made of conductors such as metals semi conductors such as silicon based materials or dielectrics. In micro scale applications the material for the plates should be suitable to micro fabrication processing. This includes semiconductors and dielectrics. Silicon semiconductors are suitable as are Group III V materials. Some example dielectrics include ceramics glass polymers crystalline quartz fused silica resins etc. Silicon carbide is another example material and would be suitable for high temperature applications.

The plates may include a sorbent coating thereon on one or both surfaces for collecting the analyte. The plates may include multiple sorbent coatings. It will be appreciated that use of the term a sorbent coating is therefore not limited to a single sorbent coating. Such a coating however is not necessary in all invention embodiments. A plate may include a metal mesh structure that does not use a sorbent coating for instance that is suitable to collect analyte. Sorbent coatings may be provided in varying thicknesses selected based on the application the sorbent used and other design considerations. Use of different sorbent materials for example may be useful to target different agents and toxic industrial chemicals.

Desorption is by heating. In the case of multiple types of sorbent there can be a thermal desorption sequence constructed based upon desorbing temperatures. Various examples of sorbent materials may include micro porous materials sol gel oxides and polymers. Example sorbent coatings include sorbent polymer s that act to selectively collect and concentrate analyte at ambient temperatures. Functionalized polycarbosilanes have been used as sorbent coatings. Other examples include chemoselective polymer films various forms of carbon including carbon nanotubes nanostructured ceramic or polymer particles and films composite materials block copolymers combinations thereof and like materials. Artisans will find guidance for selecting appropriate sorbent materials in Choosing Polymer Coatings for Chemical Sensors McGill R. A. Abraham M. H. Grate J. W. CHEMTECH 24 9 1994 p. 27 37. Example sorbent coatings will have high temperature stabilities which are necessary for thermal cycling.

Sorbent coatings may be applied by a number of techniques and the particular application method may depend upon the type of sorbent coating. Dip coating is one technique. A flow through plate is prepared for bonding of the sorbent which may involve cleaning and drying for example. It is then dipped into a solution of the sorbent coating. Other techniques include for example aerosolized coating syringe coating inkjet coating laser evaporation spin coating and washing sorbent solution over a flow through plate.

The plates may have a minimal thickness necessary for fabrication processing and for structural integrity during assembly and use. The plates must withstand contemplated fluid flows and the stresses induced by the fluid flow variations and temperature fluctuations introduced during the collection and desorption of analyte. Plates of the invention may be made very small both in width and thickness. An example plate may have a 1 10 mm width for example and may have a thickness from a few micrometers to hundreds of micrometers or more. Small thicknesses are generally preferred to provide a low thermal mass and corresponding rapid heating and desorption. Any of a number of simple or complex plate geometric shapes may be used.

Collection devices of the invention include multiple analyte embodiments. Using more than one sorbent in different sections of flow through plates either on a single plate or on multiple plates allows a device of the invention to collect more than one type of analyte. In one embodiment a single plate which may or may not be part of a series of plates includes multiple sorbent sections. In another embodiment plates in a series of plates each include a single sorbent while the series of plates provides multiple sorbents by having at least one plate coated with a different sorbent than other plates in the series of plates.

A heater is provided for heating the plates. A heater power supply is provided and linked to a heater for heating the plates . In the system the heater comprises individual heater traces in or on each of the plates illustrated as dashed lines in . The traces may be arranged on the surface of the plates for example placed in slots not illustrated in the plates or embedded within the body of the plates . The heaters traces may be lengths of conductive material forming a resistive heating element. Use of separate heater traces allows desorption to be zoned. That is the heater traces may be individually controllable to form separate heating zones on one or more of the plates . This is useful for example in embodiments of the invention that use different sorbents in different zones. It is also useful in embodiments of the invention where it is desirable to be conducting collection in one zone while conducting desorption in another zone.

The heater traces may be formed of conductive materials having a suitable resistance. Generally materials that are preferable for heater traces are materials having a high temperature coefficient of resistance minimal susceptibility to oxidation and low thermal conductivity. Platinum gold and copper are some but not all examples. In one example micro scale Pt strips deposited on the plates are used. Other example materials include all materials that are amenable to micro fabrication processing and suitable for the conditions of operation.

Other heating mechanisms may also be used in embodiments of the invention including for example radiation induced heating or heating by conduction or convection mechanisms. However the resistive trace is one example element that has been found to provide desirably fast heating rates to deliver a concentrated pulse. If another heating mechanism is used it may be configured to produce the rapid desorption effect. The power supply may be any suitable electric power supply with examples including DC batteries and AC. One example includes a 30 V DC supply . Power supply voltage and heater resistance may be varied as desired to cause heating at a suitable rate. An in line resistor not illustrated or like mechanism may be provided to control amperage.

A fan covers an inlet to the housing and directs fluid flow in the direction shown by the arrow of from the environment into the housing . Although only one fan is illustrated a plurality may be provided. The fan may have an open and closed position with fluid flow prevented in the closed position. Opposite the fan the housing includes a narrowed exit port fitted with a valve for opening and closing the port . The port may be dimensioned as desired for particular applications and can be configured to be received by a testing device such as a gas chromatography system. The housing may include a narrowed portion leading to the port to concentrate and direct fluid flow.

In operation the fan is opened and turned on to direct fluid such as a gas including an analyte of interest into the system housing and over the plates . The exit port is opened to allow flow through. Analyte accordingly contacts the sorbent on the plates and is adsorbed thereon. After some period the fan is turned off and closed. The valve may likewise be closed to isolate the housing interior although in some applications it is not necessary to isolate the interior as the analyte is held by the sorbent on the plates . The internal walls of the housing should be inert to the analyte of interest either because of material properties or by active heating of the internal surface to avoid sorption.

A controller controls the fan and may also be linked to the valve and the heater . The controller can be a processor based device with one example being a personal computer that includes a memory and program instructions for controlling various elements such as one or more of the fan valve and heater . Although the controller has been illustrated as a single device it may be provided as several individual controllers that collectively control the fan valve and heater . Some or all of these devices for example can be provided with an internal controller.

In other example systems of the invention no fan is provided. These other systems exploit inherent environmental circulation to draw fluid containing analyte into the housing and into contact with the plates. Or in some micro or mini scale invention embodiments a housing may be pre evacuated to a pressure below atmospheric and sealed. Once in the field the seal may be removed to expose the housing interior to the environment and thereby draw environmental fluid such as air into the housing.

Referring again to the example system following collection and concentration the housing port may be connected to a detector system such as a gas chromatography system. The controller may open the valve and power the heater to a level sufficient to cause the plates to reach a desorbing temperature sufficient to cause the analyte to be released. The fan may optionally be engaged to cause fluid flow into the testing system although in many applications this is unnecessary.

The physical configuration of the housing and or the detector system may be highly compact for a self contained field analysis device the detector system may be integral with the housing . In other embodiments including that schematically shown in the housing is detachable from the detector system . This is advantageous for some applications where portability is desirable. The housing might include a carrier aid such as a handle or clip. The overall dimensions of the system may be such that the housing may be conveniently carried on the body of a person. Embodiments of the invention include both modular collection devices and stand alone analysis devices having a collection device and a detector system e.g. a transducer control circuitry microprocessor memory pneumatic fluidics a manifold and the like.

Both modular collection devices and stand alone analysis devices of the invention may be highly compact. An example modular collection device unit can be made small enough for example to be conveniently worn on a person affixed to a vehicle inserted into the process flow of a machine in a production line attached to plant life portions of buildings in ventilation systems on cargo on baggage in baggage screening areas etc. For example a modular collection device of the invention might be clipped to a belt or clothing or attached to clothing by a hook and loop fastener e.g. Velcro . In a method of use such a device may be carried in an environment by a person to collect sample and then attached to a detector system after a period of collection.

Also a system of the invention may include a mini or micro scale detector system for a highly compact and complete micro analytical device of the invention. An example system includes a chemresistor detector system in a MEMS integration with a collection device including flow through micro scale sorbent plates a micro GC column a power source and electronics. The micro scale sorbent plates of the invention permit very low pressure drops and enable for example the use of inexpensive low power fans of the type used in lap top computers to generate high collection flow rates with very low power consumption. Embodiments of the invention meet important design constraints imposed by considerations necessary for realization of practical self contained portable micro analytical devices. These constraints include minimal power consumption for collection and desorption processes high fluid flow a small physical footprint and a robust mechanical design.

In the system the controller is configured to cause the heater to heat the plates to a temperature and to measure a property of the plates at this temperature in order to determine one or more of the amount of analyte on the plates or whether a contaminant is present on the plates . The property measured may include for example a thermal property of the plate measured through an electrical property of the heater traces . These features of the system of the invention may be best illustrated through discussion of methods of the invention presented below.

As discussed above when using collecting devices including discussed here and others of the type that include plates with sorbent thereon for storing analyte it can be difficult to determine the amount of analyte collected and or to determine that sufficient maximal and or an optimal amount of analyte has been collected for testing. Taking a mass difference comparing the loaded collection device and the pre loading empty device may not be practical due to the difficulties associated with detecting what is often a micro scale mass difference. Another unresolved problem in the art relates to the ability to detect non volatile and other contaminants that accumulate over time on the sorbent. Dust and other non volatile particulate may over time contaminate the sorbent and begin to lower efficiencies of the sorbent as active sites become clogged by the contaminants and as other contaminating effects occur. Determining when contaminants are present and in what quantity however is difficult. Such determinations generally face the same problems as do determination of the amount of analyte that has been collected.

Example methods and systems of the invention are useful to address these and other problems in the art. In particular some example methods and systems of the invention are directed to determining an amount of material on the sorbent where the material may be collected analyte or contaminants. is a flowchart illustrating one such example method of the invention. The method is for operating a collection device which can be for example a collection device such as the device of or any collection or preconcentrator device that includes plates for collecting analyte that is released when the plates are heated to a desorbing temperature. In description of the method of reference may be made for illustration to elements of the system of .

In a first step of the method the plates are heated. Block . Heating the plates may be accomplished for example using a heater and heater traces . Other heaters may also be used including convective and radiative heaters. The temperature that the plates are heated to may be greater or less than the desorption temperature. If the task at hand is to determine the amount of analyte material collected prior to testing the temperature will be less than the desorption temperature. If on the other hand the task at hand is to determine whether contaminant is present the temperature may be but is not necessarily greater than the desorption temperature.

The method of further includes a step of taking a measurement of a property of the plate . Block . The property may be one or more of a thermal property or an electrical property of the plate with one example being the transient thermal constant of the plate . Other properties are contemplated. This step may be taken after heating the plate to the elevated temperature Block may be performed during the step of heating the plate i.e. at the same time as Block or may be performed at both during and after heating. That is the step of taking a measurement of a property of the plate is done at one or more of during the step of heating the plate and after the plate has been heated to the elevated temperature.

Finally the measurement is used to estimate the amount of a material on the sorbent coating on at least a portion of the plate . Block . As will be discussed below this step may include for example estimating an amount of analyte on the sorbent based on the different thermal or electrical properties of the plate as compared to the same properties of the plate when no sorbent is present. Having now presented one example embodiment system and method of the invention more detailed embodiments may be illustrated.

The temperature may be any suitable temperature with greater temperatures generally favored over lower temperatures. In some example embodiments the temperature is at least about 10 C. above ambient. In others it is higher and in some cases much higher. Higher temperatures are believed to generally yield more meaningful results. Benefits of higher temperatures must be balanced however against increased energy and time required to reach those temperatures. Temperatures of about 50 C. 75 C. 100 C. 150 C. 200 C. and others may be useful in different methods of the invention.

In an additional step a calibration measurement of one or more properties of the plates is taken. Block . This may be performed after the plate has been heated to the elevated temperature or may be performed during heating. Any of a number of different properties may be measured with examples including thermal and electrical properties. Some particular examples include plate temperature plate electrical resistance and plate conductivity thermal or electrical . In some example methods of the invention the property is transient which as used herein is intended to be broadly interpreted as being measured over time. As an example the plate s change in temperature over time as the plate cools after reaching the temperature may be taken.

In one example embodiment the step of taking a calibration measurement includes determining the thermal constant of the plates. Those knowledgeable in the art will appreciate that the thermal time constant Tmay be determined by measuring temperature versus time T for a material as it cools or as it is heated using the relationship 

where y temperature of the at least one plate and A and yare constants. In some invention embodiments temperature of the plates is determined through measuring electrical resistance which is directly proportional to temperature. As the temperature of the plates which may be made of a metal semiconductor or dielectric changes so does its resistance. By measuring the plate temperature directly or indirectly through measurement of some related property such as electrical resistance over time Tcan be determined. In addition to the plate some portion of it may be measured with an example being a heater trace on it.

The chart of illustrates one example determination. The current traveling through the plate resultant from a constant voltage is plotted along the vertical axis. Because the voltage is constant this current varies directly with resistance of the plate according to the relationship voltage I R where I is current and R is resistance. Time is plotted along the horizontal axis. The constants A and ycan be empirically determined through the plot as can be the thermal constant T. Temperature of the plates may be measured using a suitable sensor such as a thermocouple. In many applications including micro scale ones it is often more convenient to measure temperature through measurement of the resistance of the plates or the heater traces on the plates. One example step includes determining temperature by measuring current traveling through the heater traces and therefore resistance while at constant potential.

The chart of illustrates a second example determination. In this chart time verses temperature for a plate has been plotted. A constant voltage has been applied to heat the plate. Again the constants A and ycan be empirically determined through the plot as can be the thermal constant T. Other determinations can likewise be made using this or other thermal or electrical data.

Referring once again to the method of steps of performing a test are next practiced. Steps of testing have been grouped in the dashed line Box and may collectively be referred to as performing a test or testing for convenience. It will be appreciated that these steps need not necessarily be performed immediately after performing a calibration or for that matter within any particular time period after performing a calibration although they could be .

In a first step of performing a test an analyte is collected on the plate or sorbent. Block . This step may include for example causing a fluid to flow past the plates and sorbent thereon using a fan or the like. After a sufficient time period which will vary with particular application the collection device housing that contains the plates e.g. housing of is closed to isolate its interior. This step of isolating the housing interior may not be necessary or included in some other method embodiments since the analyte will be retained by the sorbent regardless of fluid movement through the housing interior.

In some applications however it will be desirable to isolate the housing interior to ensure that further collection on the sorbent does not occur. If for example a sample is desired from a particular room or geographic location the sample can be collected at that location and the housing then isolated or closed. This helps ensure that any analyte collected originated from the desired location and not during later transport or storage.

Following collection the plates are then heated to a temperature above ambient but below the desorbing temperature of the analyte. Block . The temperature may be but need not be the same as the temperature that the plates were heated to during calibration. Higher temperatures are generally preferred over lower ones. Selection of a particular temperature to heat to should balance the general benefits of accuracy afforded by higher temperatures against the advantages of shorter required time periods and smaller input energy of lower temperatures.

The temperature that the plates are heated to in step should be below and preferably significantly below the desorbing temperature. This avoids causing the analyte to be released from the sorbent during this step. The difference between this temperature and the desorbing temperature may be selected as desired. Depending on the physical configuration of the plates heater traces and temperature measurement means there may be some risk that there are local hot spots on the plates that have a higher temperature than that being measured for the plate. Getting too close to the desorption temperature risks that one or more localized hot spots on the plates may reach the desorption temperature and cause some analyte to be released. In many applications it is believed that it is useful to set this temperature at least about 10 C. below the desorbing temperature and at least about 25 C. below the desorbing temperature in other applications.

After the plate has reached its desired temperature a measurement is taken of a property of the plate. Block . The property may be but is not necessarily the same as that measured during the calibration of Block . It may be for example a thermal or electrical property of the plate such as a transient temperature or resistance measurement. In some applications the measured property will be the thermal constant Tof the plate determined by measuring the temperature change over time after or while heating to the desired temperature as discussed above with reference to .

This new thermal constant Tdetermined through the step of Block will differ from that determined during calibration due to the presence of the analyte on the sorbent. The presence of this material changes the thermal behavior of the plates. The change is evidenced by its characteristic cooling or heating over time and hence its thermal constant T. A difference between the Tdetermined during calibration and the Tdetermined during testing therefore is a monotonically increasing function of the amount of analyte material collected and stored on the plates.

The units of Tare seconds. Directly converting the difference between the calibration Tand the testing Tto a mass of analyte present can be performed though an accurate determination will depend on the thermal properties of the collected material. Also if some property other than Tis measured the conversion to units of mass may be more straightforward. Use of a computer or other processor based device to perform this conversion may be helpful.

As an alternative to performing these calculations it has been discovered that qualitative determinations can be achieved through developing a history through use. Doing so can eliminate the need for the calibration steps of Box . or put another way steps of calibration may be thought of as pervious steps of measurement during pervious tests . Accordingly in some invention embodiments the calibration steps are eliminated. In these invention embodiments steps of storing the property such as Tor another thermal or electrical property calculated at Block during multiple test runs is performed together with resultant test results. Over time this data can be used to perform steps of developing a collection of data or knowledge base that yields a threshold pass fail property value that indicates whether sufficient analyte has been collected to proceed with testing.

As used herein the term knowledge base is intended to be broadly interpreted as a collection of data useful to inform a decision and or to form an inference estimate or conclusion. Knowledge bases may be further understood through consideration of their use in some embodiments of the invention. For example multiple test runs and corresponding measurements of a property through the step of Block might suggest that a property value of z or greater corresponded to sufficient analyte having been collected but property values of less than z indicated insufficient analyte was present.

If sufficient analyte has been collected for testing the desorption path is then opened to the detector system and the plates are heated to the desorption temperature to cause the analyte to be released from the sorbent. Block . A step of opening the desorption path has been summarized in Block as opening the housing. It will be appreciated that this is intended to be broadly interpreted as allowing the analyte to be released. This step is not necessary if the housing has not been isolated.

These steps may be performed immediately after Block or may be performed at some later time. If insufficient analyte had been collected further collection can be performed until the measured property determined at Block indicates that sufficient analyte has been collected. The detector system may be any desired detector including those discussed and described above including an IMS detector a GC detector a spectrometer and the like. As discussed above a fan vacuum pump or the like may be operated to induce flow into the detector or convective flow may be relied on to transfer the vaporized analyte from the collection housing to the detector.

The analyte is then tested in the detector system. Block . In methods of the invention that include steps of storing test results to build a collection of data or knowledge base these results may be stored. The results stored may be an indication of whether sufficient analyte was present to perform a test. Other results may also be stored.

Following the performance of one or more tests the method of proceeds to perform a set of steps useful to determine whether contaminant is present on the sorbent and if so to provide an estimate of what quantity. These steps are contained within dashed line box and may collectively be referred to as contaminant determination for convenience.

These steps begin with heating the plates to a temperature greater than the desorbing temperature. Block . Selecting a temperature greater than the desorbing temperature should ensure that all analyte as well as all other volatile materials having a boiling point below the selected temperature are removed from the sorbent. Other invention embodiments however may use temperatures that are below the desorbing temperature so long as no analyte is present. Temperatures greater than the desorbing temperature are preferred however to ensure that analyte is not present.

A measurement of a property of the plates is taken. Block . This may be performed after the plate has been heated to the desired temperature or during the heating. This may include for example measuring a thermal or electrical property. One particular example is determination of the plates thermal constant Tthrough measurement of the plate s temperature over time as it cools or is heated and as described herein above with reference to the steps of Blocks and . Other example embodiments may measure other properties as an alternative or in addition to the thermal constant.

The T or other property measured during the steps of contaminant determination Block is then compared to the T or other property measured during the steps of calibration Block . Since no analyte was present during the calibration steps of Block and none is present during the steps of contamination detection of Block the two values should be substantially the same. If so a determination that no contaminant is present is made. Block . Any significant difference between the values indicates a change in the physical property of the plates since calibration. In the method of this is indicative of the presence of a non volatile contaminant with examples including dust particulate and the like. Block . It is noted that some minimal difference may be due to limitations in accuracy of measurement changing ambient conditions during calibration verses testing and the like. Accordingly some minimum difference may be required to conclude that contaminant is present. The amount of the required minimum difference may be determined through calculation empirical testing or other methods.

The amount of contaminant present may be determined through calculation using the different property values such as T determined during calibration and testing. Or in other invention embodiments a knowledge base may be built over time that attempts to identify a pass fail threshold for the measured property. For example it may be that some minimal amount of contamination does not have a noticeable effect on testing. Multiple test run results may indicate that after a certain value has been reached through the contamination determination steps of Block however contamination has occurred to an extent that cleaning or reconditioning should be performed.

Many variations of particular steps of the methods of and may be practiced. For example these methods have generally included heating the plates to a particular elevated temperature and then measuring a thermal or electrical property of the plate. Changes in these properties are generally indicative of changes of the analyte and or contaminant loading on the plates. In other invention embodiments however one or more properties of the plates may be measured during the heating of the plates. In one particular example the amount of power required to cause the plate temperature to increase a particular amount and or at a particular rate may be useful to measure a property of the plates. Many different variations of these steps may be practiced that generally include taking some measurement of some property of the plates including the sorbent thereon as the temperature or power supplied to the plates changes. Many particular examples include steps that measure some thermal and or electrical property.

Methods of the invention may also be practiced on collector systems such as the device that includes multiple heater zones. A method of the invention may include controlling each of the zones independently of one another. Put another way a method of the invention may include practicing a method such as that illustrated by any of or on one or more individual heater zones in a collection device that includes multiple zones. This may be useful for example to pinpoint the location of contamination to one particular zone to determine the loading of a particular zone or for other reasons. The controller in such a system may be configured to cause a method of the invention to be performed on one or more selected of the plurality of zones.

Some variations of steps of the methods of and may be particularly well suited for practice with a device that includes a plurality of individual heater zones. For example the steps of Blocks and of may comprise heating only one individual zone of the plate and taking a measurement in an adjacent unheated zone. The temperature in the adjacent zone is directly proportional to the thermal conductivity of the plate. The temperature in the adjacent zone may be measured for example through measurement of the resistance of the heater element in that zone. Changes in the thermal conductivity indicate a change in the loading analyte or contaminant of the plate.

Also it will be understood that methods of the invention may be carried out by a controller such as the controller of . The controller may also be a controller chip or micro controller. A controller may be an electrical device a processor based device such as a computer a circuit or micro circuit which may be embedded on a circuit card or micro chip configured to carry out a method of the invention. In many example embodiments of devices of the invention the device is of a micro scale and the controller is in the form of a micro circuit on a chip included with the device.

Those knowledgeable in the art appreciate that methods of the system also lend themselves well to practice in the form of software programs. Accordingly an additional method of the invention is directed to a software program including computer readable instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to carry out a method of the invention as described herein including but not limited to the methods described in the flowcharts of and . It will therefore be appreciated that when discussing a method of the invention herein description of a computer software program product is likewise being made.

A software program of the invention may be stored in a memory and may produce output that is likewise stored in a memory and or is displayed on a display. Example output of different software program products of the invention include a measured property of a plate such as T an estimated amount of analyte or contaminant held on the sorbent or a pass fail indication for proceeding with testing.

By way of illustration schematically illustrates a system of the invention that may be for example a collector device or a preconcentrator. The device includes a controller of the invention that is running a software program of the invention useful to cause a method of the invention to be practiced on the device . The controller includes a memory a processor and a display . The memory may be a magnetic optical charge storing or other memory medium as are known and useful to store digital or analog data. The processor may be an electrical circuit or circuit logic embodied in a circuit including a microchip useful to carry out instructions. The display may be any medium useful to display data with an example being a screen for displaying text and or numerical input or output data lights or other indicators for indicating data or device conditions or status or the like. Data input means may also be provided with an example being switches keypads buttons a keyboard or the like.

The device further includes a collection housing that has a plurality of plates contained therein. The plates have a sorbent coating over at least a portion of their surfaces for collecting analyte. The plates also include a heater trace covering at least a portion of their surfaces for heating them to a desired temperature and further include means for determining their temperature. Example temperature detection means include thermocouples infrared temperature detection devices and the heater traces which can be used to indicate temperature through measurement of electrical resistance. A heater power supply is linked to the controller and to the collection chamber for heating the plates to a desired temperature. The collection housing includes at least a first port where analyte can enter the housing and at least one exit port . The exit port communicates with a testing device which may be for example a GC spectrometer other chemical analysis device or other testing device.

The controller is configured to carry out a method of the invention with examples including the methods illustrated and discussed with reference to and . A software program of the invention may be stored in the memory or may be embodied in the circuitry of the processor for example. In carrying out a method of the invention for example the controller may carry out a calibration step by heating the plates to a first temperature and measuring a property of the plate either during their heating or after they have reached the first temperature . A property of the plates may thereby be determined with an example being their thermal constant. Each of the plurality of plates may be treated individually in these steps some overall average may be obtained or some sampling of only a selected portion of the plurality may be used.

The controller may further carry out a step after some amount of analyte has been collected and stored on the plates of heating the plates to a second temperature that is below the desorbing temperature with an example being 90 C. A property of the plates is measured after heating to this second temperature or during the process of heating to this temperature. A comparison of this property to that measured during the calibration can be used to estimate the amount of analyte stored on the plates . The processor may be configured to perform calculations for instance that relate the difference in measured plate properties to a mass of analyte. Each of the plurality of plates may be treated individually some average may be obtained or some sampling of only a selected portion may be used.

In other embodiments of the system the controller may be configured to perform the steps of testing e.g. Block of without having previously performed calibration steps e.g. Block of . Over time a collection of data or knowledge base may be built that can be useful to predict what plate property values indicate sufficient analyte has been collected sufficient for testing by the testing device . Steps of building this knowledge base may include for example storing measured plate property values and testing results in the memory . A table for example may be assembled that relates plate property to an indication of whether the testing device subsequently had a sufficient quantity of analyte available to perform a test. After a suitable number of data points have been collected and stored in the memory the processor may create a linear or other relation that predicts a threshold value for the plate property above which the probability is high that a sufficient quantity of analyte has been collected.

Methods systems and software programs of the invention contemplate using further data to make such predictions more sophisticated. Other data values that may be collected through entry using data entry means for example include but are not limited to the type of analyte specific material type of material etc. physical properties of the analyte molecular weight boiling point desorbing temperature environmental conditions ambient temperature pressure humidity etc. type of testing performed GC etc. and the like.

By way of illustration one hypothetical example set of data that is stored by the controller in memory may be summarized in the form of a table such as 

The controller may further be configured through execution of a computer program product of the invention to perform a method such as that illustrated above in and directed to determining whether the plates have a contaminant stored thereon and to estimate the amount of such contaminant. This may include for example the controller causing the plates to undergo a calibration as generally discussed above by heating to a first temperature when no analyte is present and measuring a plate property. Following some number of tests the controller may then cause the plates to be heated to a second temperature following testing when no analyte is stored on the plates .

The second temperature may be the same or different than the first temperature and in many applications will be greater than the desorbing temperature. A property of the plates is then measured or is measured as the plates are being heated . A comparison of this measured property to that measured during calibration can be useful to estimate whether contaminant such as a non volatile contaminant is present on the plates. The processor may be useful to perform calculations to estimate the amount of contaminant present.

Computer program products of the invention may cause certain data output to be stored in the memory and or to be displayed on the display . The program product may for example display on the display whether a sufficient quantity of analyte has been collected to perform a test with the testing device . In another example embodiment the program product may cause output to be displayed on the display that indicates a contaminant is present on the plates and or to display the estimated quantity of contaminant present.

While specific embodiments of systems methods and program products of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

