---

title: Metering and pumping devices
abstract: The present disclosure presents several embodiments for metering devices some of which also have pumping capability. The devices utilize one or more pistons located within a cylindrical rotor. As the cylindrical rotor is turned by a suitable torque/power source, a first face of each piston is exposed to an inlet supplying a fluid to be metered. The piston is then moved within the associated channel or bore within the rotor, allowing the volume of the channel to be filled with fluid. The continuing rotation of the rotor then removes the piston from the fluid supply and moves the channel through an angular displacement. The piston is then moved—either through applied power for active pistons or the force of the fluid supply for passive pistons—in the opposite direction, forcing the fluid out of the channel. In this way, a precise amount of fluid can be metered from each channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07574925&OS=07574925&RS=07574925
owner: University of Southern California
number: 07574925
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071101
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 864 060 entitled Metering and Pumping Devices filed Nov. 2 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 864 291 entitled Metering and Pumping Devices filed Nov. 3 2006 the entire contents of both of which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Office of Naval Research Grant No. N000140510850 awarded by the United States Government. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Fluidic delivery systems are employed for processing and or delivering many different types of fluids for a wide range of applications. Such delivery systems can be tailored to the fluid s with which they are used and can include metering measuring or dosing devices apparatus. Often times such fluid delivery systems utilize an active pump of some kind such as a piston turbine or diaphragm.

Fluids including solid aggregates or large particles have proven to be problematic for fluid delivery devices and systems of the prior art often resulted in malfunctioning of valves and or damaging the aggregates contained in the fluid

Thus there exists a need for techniques that provide improved performance characteristics useful for metering and pumping fluids that include solid aggregates.

Embodiments of the present disclosure can provide techniques e.g. apparatus and methods useful for metering fluids with solid aggregates e.g. such as concrete and various food products like creams with chocolate chips and the like.

The present disclosure presents several exemplary embodiments for metering devices some of which also have pumping capability. An advantage afforded by such embodiments is that they employ a minimal number of moving parts and do not explicitly use one way valves that are common in other metering devices and pumps. These features make the devices especially suitable for fluids with solid aggregates e.g. such as concrete and various food products like creams with chocolate chips which in the prior art have proven troublesome.

In certain exemplary embodiments devices use passive pistons that in conjunction with pressurized fluid supplied as input perform only metering or dosing functions. In certain other exemplary embodiments devices can utilize active pistons that can create pressure as well as suction and therefore also act as pumps in addition to metering devices.

Various techniques useful in conjunction with the subject matter of the present application are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 760 963 entitled Multi Nozzle Assembly for Extrusion of Wall filed Jan. 20 2004 which claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 441 572 entitled Automated Construction filed Jan. 21 2003 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 040 401 entitled Robotic Systems for Automated Construction filed Jan. 21 2005 the entire contents of all of which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Additional useful techniques are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 040 602 entitled Automated Plumbing Wiring and Reinforcement filed Jan. 21 2005 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 040 518 entitled Mixer Extruder Assembly filed Jan. 21 2005 all three of which claim priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 537 756 entitled Automated Construction Using Extrusion filed Jan. 20 2004 U.S. Provisional Applications Ser. No. 60 730 560 entitled Contour Crafting Nozzle and Features for Fabrication of Hollow Structures filed Oct. 26 2005 Ser. No. 60 730 418 entitled Deployable Contour Crafting Machine filed Oct. 26 2006 Ser. No. 60 744 483 entitled Compliant Low Profile Non Protruding and Genderless Docking System for Robotic Modules filed Apr. 7 2006 the entire contents of all of which applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Additional useful techniques are described in U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 807 867 entitled Lifting and Emptying System for Bagged Materials filed Jul. 20 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 741 entitled Deployable Contour Crafting filed Oct. 25 2006 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 885 entitled Extruded Wall with Rib Like Interior filed Oct. 25 2006 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 733 451 entitled Material Delivery Approaches for Contour Crafting filed Nov. 4 2005 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 820 046 entitled Accumulator Design for Cementitious Material Delivery filed Jul. 21 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 566 027 entitled Material Delivery System Using Decoupling Accumulator Behrokh Khoshnevis Inventor filed Nov. 2 2006 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 556 048 entitled Dry Material Transport and Extrusion filed Nov. 2 2006 the entire content of all of which applications is incorporated herein by reference.

Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be understood upon reading and understanding the detailed description of exemplary embodiments described herein in conjunction with reference to the drawings.

While certain embodiments depicted in the drawings one skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments depicted are illustrative and that variations of those shown as well as other embodiments described herein may be envisioned and practiced within the scope of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure presents several embodiments for metering devices some of which also have pumping capability. The devices utilize one or more pistons located within a cylindrical rotor. It should be noted that as the term is used herein piston includes reference to a device element of a desired shape not necessarily cylindrical that is used as a reciprocating element within a cylindrical rotor.

As the cylindrical rotor is turned by suitable torque power source a first face of each piston is exposed to an inlet supplying a pressurized fluid to be metered e.g. a cementitious mix with aggregates. The piston then moves either through applied power or by the force of the fluid within the associated channel or bore within the rotor allowing the volume of the channel to be filled with fluid. The continuing rotational motion of the rotor then removes the piston from the fluid supply and moves the channel through an angular displacement e.g. 180 degrees where the piston is then moved either through applied power for active piston embodiments or the force of the fluid supply in passive piston embodiments in the opposite direction forcing the fluid out of the channel. In this way a precise amount of fluid e.g. volumetric flow rate can be metered from each channel taking into consideration the speed of rotation of the rotor and the pressure of the fluid supply or power applied to the pistons.

An advantage of such embodiments is that they employ a minimal number of moving parts and do not explicitly use one way valves that are common in most other metering devices and pumps. These features make the devices especially suitable for fluids with solid aggregates e.g. such as concrete and various food products like creams with chocolate chips which in the prior art have often resulted in malfunctioning of valves and or damaging the aggregates included in the fluid.

As noted previously certain exemplary embodiments are directed to metering devices that use passive pistons that in conjunction with pressurized fluid supplied as input perform only metering or dosing functions. In certain other exemplary embodiments metering devices of the present disclosure can utilize active pistons that can create pressure as well as suction and therefore can also act as pumps in addition to as metering devices.

The rotor can be turned by an energized source such as an electric motor or the like and to facilitate such can include an extension . The rotor is configured to spin inside a chamber of a chamber housing that has openings for incoming and outgoing fluid volumes. In exemplary embodiments the chamber housing may be made of a suitable elastomeric material such as rubber though other materials may be used. The chamber housing itself can be located within a receiving aperture of outer housing portion which may be connected to fluid ports acting as inlet and outlet to the device . To facilitate the rotation of the rotor one or more bearings e.g. may be positioned within outer housing portions and .

With particular reference to the exploded view depicted in the operation of the device can be understood. As the rotor is turned or rotated within the chamber housing by the external power source not shown the piston moves in an angular sense relative to the chamber housing opening e.g. that is connected to the fluid supply. During the rotation of the rotor when the rotor channel opening is positioned before the inlet e.g. opening the pressure of the incoming fluid e.g. as supplied through inlet pushes the piston to its outmost opposite position along the channel . At that position pin prevents the piston from emerging from the channel of the rotor .

As the piston moves away incoming material fluid occupies the space in the channel that the piston leaves behind e.g. that is swept by the piston . As the rotor continues to spin it locates the filled section of the channel in front of the outlet e.g. opening while at the same time the opposite piston face due to the rotation of the rotor is positioned again in front of the opening e.g. corresponding to the inlet .

In the passive piston embodiment of the pressure of the incoming fluid serves to push the piston away from the opening of the inlet. As it moves in response to the pressured supply of fluid the piston in turn pushes the material e.g. fluid with aggregates that had entered the channel outward toward the outlet opening and to the outlet e.g. port . This cycle continues twice per each revolution of the rotor . In this fashion each half revolution doses or meters an amount of material fluid that has filled the channel to capacity.

In this configuration the dosing or metering resolution of the device is equivalent to the volume of the channel minus the volume of the piston itself i.e. one channel capacity. The smaller the channel the finer the dosing resolution of the device becomes. For smaller channels a faster rotor spin could result in comparable overall flow rate of a similar device that has a larger channel capacity but rotates at a slower speed. Thus one skilled in the art can appreciate that the channel capacity may be designed by a combination of the piston size and rotor diameter i.e. channel depth .

With particular reference to it can be seen that the two channels have an orthogonal orientation relative to one another within the rotor . In such a configuration for each revolution of the rotor the channels are filled and emptied a combined total of four times.

With reference to it can be seen that by properly sizing the diameter of the channels the diameter of the rotor and the width of the inlet or outlet opening e.g. opening a maximum of one channel opening can always overlap the inlet or outlet opening thereby maintaining the one channel capacity resolution for the device . This can be seen in the rotation progression of rotor within metering block of as the channels and alternate with the exterior surface of the rotor . One skilled in the art will appreciate that while the channels are shown in an orthogonal configuration other configurations may also be used within the scope of the present disclosure.

The metering device of utilizes multiple channels to hold multiple reciprocating pistons . The channels and pistons are configured in an orientation such that their reciprocating motion of the pistons is parallel to the direction of the rotor axis in contrast the embodiments of . While omitted for the sake of clarity it will be understood that means to stop the pistons at the end of the channels are utilized. Such stopping means can be pins similar to previous embodiments of or other suitable mechanical features.

In the embodiment of four chambers are used two for incoming fluid and two for outgoing fluid . The rotor may turn about axle and may be held between housing members portions . In certain embodiments the main portion of the rotor may be held between the housing members exposing the lateral surface of the rotor as shown. The housing portions may include ribs which can serve to separate the two chambers used for the incoming fluid from those used for the outgoing fluid. The ribs may also be used with external screws to hold the device together. Gaskets of a material suitable for sealing device may also be present. Suitable gasket materials include rubber and other elastomeric materials of sufficient durometer value.

In operation of device pressurized fluid is supplied from inlets to the inlet chambers within housing members . the pressurized incoming fluid push the pistons located in the corresponding channels chambers away from the fluid inlet chambers e.g. chambers . This action fills the volume of the respective channels on the incoming fluid side with fluid while at the same time pushing the material fluid on the opposite side of the pistons to the corresponding outgoing chambers on the opposite side relative to the rotor axial direction of the previously described incoming fluid chambers . A similar process takes place in the adjacent chambers but in reverse flow directions. The metered fluid then leaves outlet chambers leaving the device through outlets connected to the housing members .

It should be noted that device can have two fluid inlets and two outlets as shown. In exemplary embodiments however the two inlets and or the outlets can be connected together to create a single inlet and a single outlet. The dosing metering resolution of this device can be equivalent to the volume of each channel. Using a desired number of pistons device can be designed to deliver higher flow rates at slower rotational speeds.

In exemplary embodiment device when its two inlets and outlets are not connected together can concurrently dose two separate fluids without mixing them. Besides the obvious advantage of the ability to dose double fluids at the same rate such as dispensing equal amounts of vanilla and chocolate ice cream the device can work as a pressure amplifier and thus active pump for one of the fluids. For example high pressure water may be used as one incoming fluid and low pressure concrete as the second incoming fluid. In this case when the rotor is turned the concrete will be pushed out of the system at the high water pressure. The normal water line pressure or a powerful water pump may be used in this case. In case a pump is used the water may be recycled through a closed loop back to the pump. The pump in this case supplies pressure at its outlet and suction on its inlet. The suction action would pull the pistons positioned in the device chamber which is connected to the water pump inlet and thus make it possible to suck in the second fluid material. Therefore an unpressurized i.e. at atmospheric pressure material such as concrete at atmospheric pressure could be pumped by this arrangement. Note that the circulating fluid in this case may be a special oil instead of water which is commonly used in hydraulic actuators. In summary in this closed loop case the high pressure water or oil circuit uses the inlet and outlet chambers on one side of device and plays the role of a novel hydraulic pumping system to pump the material that enters and leaves respectively the inlet and outlet chambers on the opposite side of the device. Of course material flow takes place at the desired rate when the rotor in device is turned by its own external torque source.

Like the previously described embodiments device includes a cylindrical rotor that is turned by a torque applied to an extension or axle . Unlike previously described embodiment however device uses active pistons that are actuated by means of their rods attached to bearings that move inside a tilted stationary groove that is configured in an arched member and that is tilted at oblique angle with respect to the axis of rotation of the rotor . The groove is configured to retain the bearings in sliding manner such that the bearings are slidingly retained within the groove as the rotor turns. The arched member can receive axle and be connected to housing member that includes inlet chamber and outlet chamber connected to inlet and outlet respectively. Sealing gasket may also be present.

In operation as the rotor is turned by an external torque source the rotation of the rotor forces each piston rod against the bearings which in turn causes their movement inside the grove . This arrangement results in the sequential rising and lowering of pistons in their respective channels thereby providing a pumping action for each. The rising action takes place above the incoming fluid chamber e.g. chamber and the lowing action happens above the outgoing fluid chamber e.g. chamber . The dosing resolution in of the device can thus be designed to be very fine while allowing the flow through the device to be continuous.

As can be seen in the exploded view of device bears some similarity to device of and includes rotor with channel and piston . Rotor is configured with axle for rotation in chamber housing having openings . Chamber housing is received within aperture of housing member which is connected to inlet and outlet ports . Bearing is present to receive axle through housing member .

As can be seen in device contrasts with device of in that piston is a pivoting piston that pivots about axle the ends of which protrude through the exterior surface of rotor . The piston makes pivoting movement in two opposite direction within a volume that has a cylindrical surface and two planar inner surfaces .

With continued reference to instead of stopping means in the form of pins the rotor may be configured internally to include surfaces that act to restrain the pivoting motion of the piston e.g. such that the piston end distal to pivot axle or shaft is prevented from leaving the confines of the rotor itself during operation of the device .

In certain embodiments device may be used in a passive mode with pressurized incoming fluid in which case the dosing resolution will be equivalent to the channel containing the piston .

Due to its advantage of making the piston pivoting shaft ends available to outside the housing that contains the rotor device can be utilized as an active pump or a continuous dosing device as can be seen in in exemplary embodiments.

In such active embodiments the rotor end spins with respect to the body of the housing . It is therefore possible to convert the rotary motion of the rotor to reciprocating pivoting motion of the piston shaft by means of several possible rotary to reciprocating motion conversion mechanisms.

One possible mechanism is shown in . As shown arms can be connected to the piston shaft and also to member that has a slot. The slot of member slide member can be configured to receive pin which is held by arm fixed to housing member . Thus in operation during rotation of the rotor the arm and pin cause an eccentric motion of arms connected to the piston causing the piston to pivot back and forth in channel . In such active embodiments all motion energy may be received from the same source that spins the main rotor.

While certain embodiments have been described herein it will be understood by one skilled in the art that the methods systems and apparatus of the present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit thereof. For example in all of the above designs a diaphragm or other alternatives to pistons may be used.

Accordingly the embodiments described herein and as claimed in the attached claims are to be considered in all respects as illustrative of the present disclosure and not restrictive.

