---

title: System and method for managing digital certificates on a remote device
abstract: A system and method for managing a digital certificate associated with a remote device is provided. The method includes providing a Web Service Application Programming Interface (API) and communicating digitally between the Web Service API and a remote device, including one of requesting the remote device to perform a task associated with managing digital certificates, and responding to a request from the remote device for performing a task associated with managing digital certificates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08261080&OS=08261080&RS=08261080
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08261080
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070412
---
In particular the present disclosure relates to a system and method for managing digital certificates on a remote device.

The present disclosure relates generally to using a computerized workstation to manage digital certificates on remote devices such as printers. The digital certificates are used for providing secure data transfers to and from the remote devices using a secure interface protocol such as SSL.

The digital certificates use public and private keys. A computerized device s public key is available to other computerized devices but its private key is only available to itself. A first computerized device sending secure data to a second computerized device may encrypt the data using the second device s public key and the data may only be decrypted by using the second device s private key which only the second device has access to. Furthermore a device s private key may be used to generate a digital signature for securing a document. For additional security the first device may be provided with a digital certificate which is signed by a certifying authority thus authenticating the digital certificate. The digital certificate associated with a device uses the private and public keys associated with that device. A device receiving data with a digital certificate uses the public key provided with the digital certificate to decrypt the data.

Presently remote devices can be configured with digital certificates in a number of ways. In one method the digital certificate for each remote device is created and stored on the remote device manually such as by way of a system administrator manually receiving and entering the necessary data from the remote device. In another method proprietary software such as scripts are generated for use with a network where a computerized workstation communicates with the remote devices for managing their respective associated digital certificates. The software is specially developed for use with the operating system employed by the computerized workstation for the specific applications used by the workstation and or the remote devices and the specific computer languages used by the workstation and or the remote devices. The software developed for managing the digital certificates may not work on a system that uses a different operating system different applications or different computer languages.

Still another method presently used is Public Key Infrastructure PKI which here refers to a method using software developed for managing certificates on remote devices via a computerized workstation. However the software is extremely difficult to implement and is not widely used in the industry.

To overcome the drawbacks in the prior art it is an aspect of the present disclosure to provide a system and method which is relatively simple to use for managing digital certificates on remote devices using a computerized workstation where the system and method is universal and is not sensitive to the particular operating system used by the workstation or the computer language or applications used by the workstation and or remote devices.

The present disclosure is directed to a computer workstation for managing a digital certificate associated with a remote device. The workstation includes a processor and a communication interface for providing digital communication between the processor and a remote device. The workstation further includes a workstation digital certificate management WKSDCM software module including a series of programmable instructions executable on the processor forming a Web Service Application Programming Interface API for at least one of requesting the remote device to perform a task associated with managing digital certificates and responding to a request from the remote device for performing a task associated with managing a digital certificate.

The present disclosure is also directed to a method for managing a digital certificate associated with a remote device. The method includes providing a Web Service API and communicating digitally between the Web Service API and a remote device. The communicating includes one of requesting the remote device to perform a task associated with managing digital certificates and responding to a request from the remote device for performing a task associated with managing digital certificates.

The present disclosure is also directed to a remote device having a processor and a communication interface for providing digital communication between the processor and a workstation. The remote device further includes a remote device digital certificate management RDDCM software module including a series of programmable instructions executable on the processor forming a Web Service API for at least one of receiving a request with data from the workstation to perform a task associated with managing a digital certificate and requesting the workstation to perform a task associated with managing a digital certificate. The RDDCM further performs the requested task using the data.

The present disclosure is further directed to a method for managing a digital certificate associated with a remote device. The method includes providing a Web Service API and communicating digitally between the Web Service API and a workstation. The communicating includes at least one of receiving a request with data from the workstation requesting the remote device to perform a task associated with managing a digital certificate and requesting the workstation to perform a task associated with managing a digital certificate. The method further includes performing the requested task using the data.

Finally the present disclosure is directed to a method for managing a digital certificate using a certificate management system. The method includes storing a WKSDCM module and transmitting the WKSCDM module to a workstation. The WKSDCM module includes a series of programmable instructions executable on a processor of a workstation of the certificate management system for managing a digital certificate associated with a remote device of the certificate management system wherein the managing includes requesting the remote device to perform a task associated with the managing the digital certificates. The series of programmable instructions forms a Web Service API.

Other features of the presently disclosed the digital certificate management system will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the presently disclosed digital certificate management system.

Referring now to the drawing figures in which like references numerals identify identical or corresponding elements a digital certificate management system and method in accordance with the present disclosure will now be described in detail. With initial reference to an exemplary digital certificate management system in accordance with the present disclosure is illustrated and is designated generally as digital certificate management system . Digital certificate management system includes a workstation and a plurality of remote devices networked to the workstation via network . The network may include a network manager which may include a network server database security manager configuration server etc. for managing the flow of data over network . The workstation is further in communication with a certificate management web server and a third party certificate authority CA via a network such as the Internet.

The workstation manages digital certificates such as X.509 digital certificates to be used by the remote devices including for creating self signed certificates creating certificate signing requests CSRs uploading signed certificates to the remote device listing available certificates getting a particular certificate getting a CSR adding a root certificate getting a particular root certificate listing available root certificates and deleting a root certificate.

The workstation and the remote device may both store root certificates. The root certificate may be provided by the CA or another trusted site. The root certificate is used to validate certificates used by the digital certificate management system for validating any certificates signed by the CA . During communication one of the workstation and the remote device may request verification using the root certificate of the other device. Such communication may be initiated by the remote device . The root certificate is used to validate a digital certificate stored by the party that the root certificate verification is requested from to validate that the certificate is secure.

The workstation includes at least one processor and a communication interface which includes the hardware and software necessary for communicating via network and network . The workstation further includes a workstation digital certificate management WKSDCM software module executable by the processor for managing digital certificates associated with the remote devices . The WKSDCM module is an application programming interface API written in Web Service Definition Language WSDL which is a universal language that is not platform specific in terms of the architecture of the platform the operating system of the platform or the programming language used by the platform such as for applications. Accordingly the workstation is not restricted to having a particular architecture using a particular operating system or using applications implemented in a particular programming language.

Web Services uses WSDL Universal Description Discovery and Integration UDDI and Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . WSDL is based in Extensible Markup Language XML defining Web Services and describing how to access them. The WSDL descriptions allow the software systems of one agent to communicate directly with another agent via a network such as the World Wide Web using the SOAP protocol. The two agents may link their SOAP interfaces provided that security measures are managed properly. An agent may communicate with an unknown agent e.g. unknown meaning that their respective SOAP interfaces are not linked by accessing a formal description of the other agent accessible via a directory such as UDDI. The agents may communicate using Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP a set of rules for exchanging files on the World Wide Web or a secured version of HTTP such as HTTPS which is HTTP over Secure Sockets Layer SSL .

SOAP uses Web protocols to provide communication between agents specifying how to pass and receive information. Web protocols are installed and available for use by all major operating system platforms. Accordingly using HTTP XML and SOAP one agent can communicate with another even if the agents are using different operating systems. SSL or its successor Transport Layer Security TLS which is based on SSL are commonly used protocols for managing security of message transmission over the Internet which use a program layer located between the Internet s Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP and Transport Control Protocol TCP layers. The sockets part of the term refers to the sockets method of passing data back and forth between a client and a server program in a network or between program layers in the same computer.

The workstation may be for example a personal computer a micro computer a mainframe computer or a handheld computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular phone etc. The processor may be a microprocessor or the like having access to at least one volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The communication interface includes hardware and or software components e.g. a communication port an input output I O adapter etc configured for providing communication between the workstation and the remote devices the certificate management web server and the third party certificate authority via network and network . The communication interface may provide for wired or wireless communication.

Network and network may be mutually exclusive or share software and or hardware components. In the example provided network is the Internet and network is an intranet such as a wide area network WAN or local area network LAN . Network manager may include at least one server such as a configuration server a security manager etc. and data storage components.

A system administrator SA having requisite security rights operates the workstation and activates the WKSDCM module . The SA further develops the user interface using commercially available software. The user interface is used to gather data from the user user entered data and provide the data to the WKSDCM module . The user interface may provide a graphical user interface GUI for prompting a user to enter data required by the WKSDCM module gathering the data and providing the entered data to the WKSDCM module for management of the digital certificates.

The processor may be a microprocessor or the like having access to at least one volatile and or nonvolatile memory including storage device . The communication interface includes hardware and or software components e.g. a communication port an input output I O adapter etc configured for providing communication between the workstation and the remote devices the certificate management web server and the third party certificate authority via network and network . The communication interface may provide for wired or wireless communication.

The RDDCM module communicates with the WKSDCM module of the workstation as needed when the WKSDCM module manages digital certificates for the remote device including accessing and or managing the private key public key digital certificate and or root certificate stored on the storage device . In the present example the RDDCM module is installed at the time of manufacture or installed via a software upgrade.

The certificate management web server has at least one processor a communication interface a web interface a web server digital certificate management distribution software WBSDCMD module and a storage device. The processor may be a microprocessor or the like having access to at least one volatile and or nonvolatile memory. The communication interface includes hardware and or software components e.g. a communication port an input output I O adapter etc configured for providing communication between the certificate management web server and the network . The communication interface may provide for wired or wireless communication.

The web interface provides an interface to clients for receiving client requests and providing clients with a requested product. In the present example a client request is generated by the workstation . The web interface collects data related to the client request which may include collecting payment information and the product being requested. The WBSDCMD module includes a series of programmable instructions executable by the processor . The WBSDCMD module processes the request retrieves the product requested from the storage device and provides the product requested to the web interface . The storage device stores products including the WKSDCM module . The web interface provides the product to the client e.g. via an upload operation. In the present example the workstation requests to purchase the WKSDCM module transacts the purchase downloads the WKSDCM module from the certificate management web server and installs it.

The WKSDCM software module the RDDCM software module and the WBSDCMD software module may be provided by the certificate management web server such as via a download operation as propagated signals or as stored on a removable storage medium such as a CD. The provision of the aforementioned software modules by the certificate management web server may be for a fee. Each of the software modules e.g. the WKSDCM module RDDCM module and the WBSDCMD module module includes a series of programmable instructions capable of being executed by the associated processor e.g. processor and respectively. The series of programmable instructions can be stored on a computer readable medium such as RAM a hard drive CD smart card 3.5 diskette etc. or transmitted via propagated signals as described above for being executed by the associated processor and respectively for performing the functions disclosed herein and to achieve a technical effect in accordance with the disclosure.

Operational steps for managing a request to create a certificate such as a self signed certificate a CSR or a root certificate are now described. Using the user interface the SA enters the request. Via the user interface the WKSDCM module prompts the SA to enter the nature of the request and data which is needed for processing the request and which may be entered into a certificate being created. The data may include for example an administrative password which authorizes the certificate creation the date and or time interval for which the self signed certificate is to be valid a country code identification of the remote device for which the self signed certificate is being requested and identification data e.g. location information including a country code state and street address organization unit identification and an email address for the SA. Furthermore the request identifies the particular remote device that the request is directed to.

The WKSDCM module sends the request including the data entered by the SA to the RDDCM module of the remote device identified. When the request is a request to generate a self signed certificate the RDDCM module accesses the stored private and public keys generates the self signed certificate using the data provided with the request and the private and or public keys and stores it on the storage device . Then the RDDCM module notifies the WKSDCM module as to the success of the certificate creation and the WKSDCM module notifies the SA via the user interface .

Instead of using a self signed digital certificate the remote device may use a signed digital identity certificate which is signed by a trusted third party such as a CA. The CSR which is a certificate with a request to sign the certificate is sent by the WKSDCM module to the trusted third party such as a CA having the authority to sign digital certificates for use by other parties. The CA may be for example a free CA a CA associated with institutions and governments or a commercial CA that charge for their services. The CA returns the signed digital identity certificate to the WKSDC module .

When the RDDCM module of a remote device receives a request from the WKSDCM module to create a CSR it uses data included with the request and the private and or public keys to create the CSR. Once created the RDDCM module sends the created CSR to the WKSDCM module . Preferably the RDDCM module stores the CSR locally on storage device . In a well known type of CSR the CSR includes the public key and is signed by the private key of the CA. If the CSR creation failed at the remote device the RDDCM module returns an error message to the WKSDCM module which notifies the SA via the user interface of the status of the CSR creation. Provided that the CSR creation was successful the WKSDCM sends the CSR to the CA via network . Sending the CSR to the CA may be performed automatically upon receipt of the CSR by the WKSDCM module from the RDDCM without any SA intervention.

The CA signs the certificate and sends the signed digital identity certificate to the WKSDCM . The WKSDCM uploads the signed certificate to the appropriate remote device including providing the signed certificate together with an administrative password to the RDDCM module of the remote device . The RDDCM module installs the signed certificate including storing it on the storage device .

The providing of the signed certificate by the WKSDCM to the RDDCM module may be performed automatically upon receipt of the signed certificate from the CA without any SA intervention wherein the providing of the signed certificate includes notifying the RDDCM module that the signed certificate is ready for installation. Furthermore the installing of the signed certificate by the RDDCM module may also be performed automatically upon notification from the WKSDCM that the signed certificate is ready for installation without any SA intervention. If the signed certificate is successfully installed the RDDCM module notifies the WKSDCM of the successful installation and otherwise sends an error message to the WKSDCM which notifies the SA via the user interface .

The WKSDCM may also send a request for a root certificate to the CA via network . The CA provides a signed root certificate also known as a trusted root certificate when the CA is a trusted CA to the WKSDCM . The WKSDCM uploads the root certificate to the appropriate remote device including providing the root certificate together with an administrative password to the RDDCM module of the remote device . The RDDCM module installs the root certificate including storing it on the storage device . The WKSDCM may also upload a root certificate which originated from itself or another trusted site to the RDDCM module of the remote device .

Additionally the WKSDCM may generate a request for the RDDCM module to provide it with a particular previously created self signed digital certificate third party signed digital certificate CSR or root certificate. The RDDCM module responds by retrieving the requested certificate or a list of the requested type of certificate from the storage device and sending it to the WKSDCM .

Furthermore the RDDCM may initiate communication and request the WKSDCM to perform a task related to managing digital certificates. Initiation of communication may occur for example when the remote device generates an email or transmits a document such as a file including a scanned document. In one example the RDDCM may request the WKSDCM to use a root certificate to verify another certificate.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

