---

title: Fuel cell structures and assemblies
abstract: The present invention relates to microfibrous fuel cell sub-bundle structures, fuel cell bundles and fuel cell assemblies formed by such fuel cell sub-bundles and bundles. Specifically, a fuel cell sub-bundle is provided, which comprises multiple microfibrous fuel cells. Each microfibrous fuel cell comprises: (a) a hollow microfibrous membrane separator comprising an electrolyte medium, (b) an inner electrocatalyst layer in contact with an inner surface of such membrane separator, (c) an outer electrocatalyst layer in contact with an outer surface of such membrane separator, and (d) an individual current collector in electrical contact with the inner surface of such membrane separator. Each of such multiple microfibrous fuel cells is in electrical contact with a common current collector at the outer surface of its membrane separator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08048584&OS=08048584&RS=08048584
owner: Microcell Corporation
number: 08048584
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070518
---
This application is a divisional and claims priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 794 687 filed Mar. 5 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 229 712 which in turn claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 119 of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 452 635 filed Mar. 7 2003. Both of said applications are incorporated herein by reference in their respective entireties for all purposes.

The U.S. government may own rights in the present invention pursuant to Grant No. 70NANB1H3039 awarded by the Advanced Technology Program ATP of National Institute of Science and Technology NIST .

This invention in general relates to fuel cell structures and assemblies and more specifically to fuel cell structures and assemblies that comprise multiple microfibrous fuel cell elements arranged and constructed for efficient thermal and or humidity management.

In recent years fuel cell or fuel cell assembly has become more and more available as a power source for use in handheld or mobile electrical devices electrically powered vehicles as well as in distributed power generation applications.

Fuel cells offer especially attractive prospects as energy conversion devices by exhibiting high energy efficiency and low levels of gaseous solid emissions in comparison with traditional combustion based energy sources.

In addition to generation of electrical energy fuel cells convert a portion of the chemical energy stored in the fuel into heat during the electrochemical reaction which if efficiently collected and utilized will significantly increase the overall energy electrical thermal efficiency of the fuel cell systems. Therefore there is an on going interest in developing fuel cell systems as cogeneration systems for both electrical and thermal energy to increase efficiency of such systems. The thermal energy produced by such cogeneration systems can be used for both heating and cooling by using absorption or adsorption chiller or desiccant cooling to support adjacent industrial facilities and domestic residences.

The thermal energy managing devices or structures used in conventional fuel cell cogeneration systems are usually very bulky in size which include various heat exchanging panels pipes fluid pumps and tubings for which significant space is required in additional to that of the fuel cell itself. There is therefore a need to provide a compact fuel cell system with thermal energy collecting transferring components that are space saving in character.

Further in proton exchange membrane PEM fuel cells wherein continuous flow of feed such as hydrogen or methanol and oxidant such as air or oxygen is required for the electrochemical reactions therein the feed or the oxidant stream needs to be sufficiently humidified to prevent drying of the membrane separators in the fuel cells. Humidifying devices or structures such as water tanks pumps tubings and control devices are therefore necessary for supplying water or water vapor to the fuel cell systems in order to maintain the electrochemical reaction rate and the energy output density. Such humidifying devices or structures further increase the size of the fuel cell system. It will therefore be advantageous to provide a compact fuel cell system with reliable humidifying components having space saving characteristics.

A recent innovation in the fuel cell industry is the development of microfibrous fuel cells as described in details in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 916 514 5 928 808 5 989 300 6 004 691 6 338 913 6 399 232 6 403 248 6 403 517 6 444 339 6 495 281 all to Ray R. Eshraghi. Such microfibrous fuel cells are shaped as elongated fibers with very small cross sectional diameters ranging from a few hundred microns to a few millimeters and can be serially and or parallelly arranged interconnected and packed into compact fuel cell assemblies of very high voltage and power densities.

For thermal management in such microfibrous fuel cell assemblies Eshraghi patents disclose use of hollow fibrous heat exchanging tubes which are packed side by side with the microfibrous fuel cells and through which a coolant medium is passed for removing heat out of such fuel cell assemblies.

Eshraghi patents further disclose that such hollow fibrous heat exchange tubes may comprise a water permeable porous membrane wall so that water deriving from an aqueous coolant medium permeates from the bores of such heat exchange tubes through the membrane wall into the feed stream thereby humidifying the electrochemical reaction environment.

Therefore the Eshraghi patents provide a compact fuel cell assembly with an integrated thermal and humidity management structure.

The present invention improves the thermal and or humidity management efficiency in the Eshraghi fuel cell assembly and advances the Microcell technology in the aspect of electrical and thermal energy cogeneration.

Other objects of the present invention will be more fully apparent from the ensuing disclosure and appended claims.

The present invention in one aspect relates to a fuel cell sub bundle which comprises multiple microfibrous fuel cells wherein each microfibrous fuel cell comprises a a hollow microfibrous membrane separator comprising an electrolyte medium b an inner electrocatalyst layer in contact with an inner surface of such membrane separator c an outer electrocatalyst layer in contact with an outer surface of such membrane separator and d an individual current collector in electrical contact with the inner surface of such membrane separator and wherein each of the multiple microfibrous fuel cells is in electrical contact with a common current collector at the outer surface of its membrane separator.

Preferably but not necessarily such common current collector has a fibrous conformation around which the multiple microfibrous fuel cells can be arranged to form a fibrous or tubular sub bundle structure.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell structure comprising multiple fuel cell elements and a common current collector wherein each fuel cell element comprises 1 a membrane separator having an electrolyte medium 2 a first electrocatalyst layer in electrical contact with a first surface of the membrane separator 3 a second electrocatalyst layer in electrical contact with a second opposite surface of the membrane separator and 4 an individual current collector in electrical contact with the first surface of the membrane separator wherein each fuel cell element is in electrical contact with the common current collector at the second opposite surface of its membrane separator.

A further aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell bundle comprising a thermally conductive tubular element and one or more fuel cell sub bundles positioned therein wherein each fuel cell sub bundle comprises multiple microfibrous fuel cells all in electrical contact with a common current collector wherein each microfibrous fuel cell comprises a a hollow microfibrous membrane separator comprising an electrolyte medium b an inner electrocatalyst layer in contact with an inner surface of the membrane separator c an outer electrocatalyst layer in contact with an outer surface of the membrane separator and d an individual current collector in electrical contact with the inner surface of the membrane separator.

A still further aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell bundle comprising one or more microfibrous fuel cell elements disposed inside an air channel tube each microfibrous fuel cell element comprising 

Still another aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell assembly which comprises an assembly of the above described fuel cell bundles positioned in a housing wherein such housing comprises multiple leak tightly separated compartments and multiple fluid inlets and outlets for separately passing a fuel containing fluid an oxidant containing fluid and a heat exchange fluid through the fuel cell bundles for generation of electrical and thermal energy.

A still further aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell assembly comprising an elongated housing structure having a longitudinal axis with one or more fuel cell elements placed therein wherein said elongated housing structure comprises multiple fluid inlets and outlets for separately passing two or more fluids through the fuel cell elements and wherein all the fluid inlets and outlets of said elongated housing structure are substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of said elongated housing.

Other aspects features and advantages of the invention will be more fully apparent from the ensuing disclosure and appended claims.

The contents of U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 916 514 5 928 808 5 989 300 6 338 913 6 399 232 6 403 248 6 403 517 6 444 339 6 495 281 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 452 635 filed Mar. 7 2003 are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for all purposes.

The terms microfibrous fibrous and fiber are used interchangeably herein for defining an elongated structure having a cross sectional outer diameter in a range of from about 10 microns to about 10 millimeters preferably 100 microns to about 10 millimeters more preferably from about 10 microns to about 5 millimeters and most preferably from about 10 microns to about 1 millimeter.

The terms tubular and tube are used herein for defining an elongated structure having a cross sectional outer diameter of at least one millimeter preferably at least 1 centimeter and more preferably at least 5 centimeters.

The terms porous and microporous are used interchangeably herein for defining structures having pore size ranging from 1 Angstrom to about 10 microns.

The present invention in one aspect provides a novel fuel cell sub bundle structure which comprises multiple fuel cell elements that share a common current collector. Each fuel cell element comprises a porous or non porous membrane separator having an electrolyte medium therein. The membrane separator defines a first surface and a second opposite surface. A first and a second electrocatalyst layers are provided at the respective first and second surfaces of such membrane separator to facilitate electrochemical reactions. An individual current collector is provided for each fuel cell element at the first surface of each membrane separator while the common current collector electrically contacts all of the fuel cell elements at the second opposite surfaces of their membrane separators.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the fuel cell elements comprise multiple hollow microfibrous membrane separators that are in electrical contact with multiple individual current collectors at inner surfaces thereof and a common fibrous or tubular current collector at outer surfaces thereof.

As shown in the lower portion of each microfibrous fuel cell element comprises a hollow microfibrous membrane separator having an electrolyte medium therein. The hollow microfibrous membrane separator defines a bore side and a shell side . An inner electrocatalyst layer and an individual current collector are provided at the bore side of the membrane separator in electrical contact with its inner surface and an outer electrocatalyst layer is provided at the shell side of the membrane separator in electrical contact with its outer surface. Further a lumen is provided at the bore side of the membrane separator so that a fuel containing fluid or alternatively an oxidant containing fluid can be passed through the bore of the fuel cell element while the shell of such fuel cell element is exposed to an oxidant containing fluid or alternatively a fuel containing fluid .

The hollow fibrous membrane separator may comprise either a liquid electrolyte medium or a solid electrolyte medium. Such hollow fibrous membrane separator may be microporous with liquid or solid electrolyte medium impregnated in micropores of such membrane separator. Alternatively such hollow fibrous membrane separator is itself a solid ion exchange membrane which consists essentially of either a solid ion exchange ceramic material or a solid ion exchange polymeric material and which functions both as the membrane matrix for providing structural support and the electrolyte medium for carrying out the electrochemical reaction. Preferably the membrane separator comprises a solid ion exchange polymer i.e. either a cationic exchange polymer or an anionic exchange polymer selected from the group consisting of perflurocarbon sulfonic acid based polymers polysulfone based polymers perfluorocarboxylic acid based polymers styrene vinyl benzene sulfonic acid based polymers and styrene butadiene based polymers. Examples of ion exchange polymeric membrane suitable for use in the present invention include the Nafion membrane manufactured by DuPont at Fayetteville N.C. the Flemion membrane manufactured by Asahi Glass Company at Tokyo Japan and the Aciplex membrane manufactured by Asahi Chemical Company at Osaka Japan.

The common outer current collector is preferably a fibrous or tubular element around which the multiple microfibrous fuel cell elements can be firmly packed or otherwise assembled to form a compact fuel cell sub bundle with improved structural stability. In a specific embodiment such common current collector comprises a solid i.e. devoid of cavity fibrous or tubular element. In an alternative embodiment of the present invention it comprises a hollow fibrous or tubular element with a central cavity therein and a heat exchanging fluid can be passed therethrough to remove the heat generated by the multiple fuel cell elements.

The common current collector may comprise any suitable electrically conductive materials and mixtures thereof including but not limited to carbon graphite carbon fiber or fiberglass reinforced materials metals metal alloys electrically conductive polymers polymeric composites and electrically conductive ceramics etc. Preferably the common current collector comprises metal or metal alloy including but not limited to titanium niobium nickel zirconium gold tantalum platinum palladium silver and alloys thereof. More preferably a metal clad composite having two or more metal layers bonded together by solid phase bonding is employed for forming the thermally conductive tube. Specifically the metal clad composite comprises an outermost layer formed of corrosion resistant metal or metal alloy such as titanium niobium nickel zirconium gold tantalum platinum palladium silver and alloys thereof and one or more inner layers comprising metal or metal alloy of higher conductivity and or lower costs such as copper aluminum brass bronze nickel silver and alloys thereof. More description for metal clad composites is provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 188 471 filed on Jul. 2 2002 for MICROCELL ELECTROCHEMICAL DEVICES AND ASSEMBLIES WITH CORROSION RESISTANT CURRENT COLLECTORS AND METHOD OF MAKING THE SAME and issued Apr. 6 2005 as U.S. Pat. No. 6 884 539 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The membrane separators of the microfibrous fuel cell elements contained by such fuel cell sub bundle extend through the central portion and terminate respectively at the first and second terminals and . The common current collector extends beyond the central portion into the first terminal to provide a first electrical contact either positive or negative for the fuel cell sub bundle while the individual current collectors of the multiple microfibrous fuel cells contained by such fuel cell sub bundle extend beyond the central portion into the second terminal . Such individual current collectors can be interconnected to provide a second electrical contact either negative or positive that is isolated from the first electrical contact of the fuel cell sub bundle . In this specific embodiment the multiple microfibrous fuel cells contained in the fuel cell sub bundle are parallelly interconnected with one another to provide increased current output.

The fuel cell sub bundle structure can be potted at both ends of the central portion near the first and second terminals and to isolate and seal the bore sides of the multiple microfibrous fuel cell elements from the shell sides thereof as disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 916 514 5 928 808 5 989 300 6 338 913 6 399 232 6 403 248 6 403 517 6 444 339 and 6 495 281. Alternatively multiple fuel cell sub bundles as described hereinabove can be packed together and potted at both ends thereof to form a fuel cell core structure which is described in further details hereinafter.

While the above provided examples of fuel cell sub bundles are primarily directed to microfibrous fuel cells it will be appreciated that the description is generally applicable to any types of fuel cells including the flat or planar fuel cells and fuel cells of any other configuration well known in the field of art. For example the fuel cell elements may comprise multiple flat or planar membrane separators that are in electrical contact with multiple individual current collectors at first sides thereof and a common flat or planar current collector at second opposite sides thereof alternatively such fuel cell elements may comprise multiple tubular or cylindrical membrane separators that are in electrical contact with multiple individual current collectors at inner surfaces thereof and a common tubular or cylindrical current collectors at outer surfaces thereof.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell sub bundle structure that comprises multiple microfibrous fuel cell elements that share a common heat exchanging and or humidifying element wherein each microfibrous fuel cell element comprises a an inner current collector b a hollow fibrous membrane separator comprising an electrolyte medium c an inner electrocatalyst layer d an outer electrocatalyst layer and e an outer current collector.

The structure of such fuel cell sub bundle is similar to those illustrated in except that the central tubular element around which the multiple fuel cell elements are arranged is not a common current collector but a hollow tubular heat exchanging and or humidifying element comprising an electrically non conductive thermally conductive material and that each microfibrous fuel cell contains additional individual outer current collectors rather than sharing a common outer current collector. Such heat exchanging and or humidifying element may comprise a non porous hydrophilic or microporous hydrophobic membrane wall that allows water or water vapor to permeate therethrough to humidify the surrounding microfibrous fuel cells.

The fuel cell sub bundles as described hereinabove may be covered with a thin layer of porous insulating material. Such porous insulating layer prevents electrical shorting between adjacent fuel cell sub bundles when serially connected but allows diffusion of fuel or oxidant fluid therethrough to contact the outer electrocatalyst layer of each microfibrous fuel cell in the sub bundles. The porous insulating layer may comprise for example a porous fiberglass matrix a porous polymeric matrix with a foam like structure e.g. a polyurethane foam layer or an insulating mesh. Preferably the porous insulating layer comprises one or more hydrophobic materials.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell bundle comprising a thermally conductive tubular element having one or more fuel cell sub bundles placed therein.

The thermally conductive tubular element functions as a heat exchange tube for conducting the heat generated by the fuel cell sub bundles therein to a heat exchanging fluid that is in contact with its outer surface thereby removing excessive heat from the fuel cell sub bundles and reducing damage of the fuel cell elements due to overheating. Further it provides additional structural support to the fuel cell sub bundles.

Specifically shows the transverse cross sectional view of an exemplary fuel cell bundle which comprises a thermally conductive tube having a bore side and a shell side . Multiple fuel cell sub bundles are positioned inside the bore and arranged in a heat transmitting relationship with the wall of such thermally conductive tube . In operation a heat exchanging fluid is passed through the shell side of the thermally conductive tube to absorb the heat generated by the fuel cell sub bundles through the tube wall.

The thermally conductive tube as illustrated hereinabove can be formed of any suitable materials that are sufficiently corrosion resistant for surviving the chemical environment during operation of the fuel cell elements. For example it may comprise carbon graphite carbon fiber or fiberglass reinforced composite materials metals metal alloys thermally conductive polymers polymeric composites and thermally conductive ceramics that are well known in the art.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the thermally conductive tube comprises carbon graphite or carbon fiber or fiberglass reinforced composite material.

In an alternative embodiment such thermally conductive tube comprises metal or metal alloy including but not limited to titanium niobium nickel zirconium gold tantalum platinum palladium silver and alloys thereof. A metal clad composite having two or more metal layers bonded together by solid phase bonding can be used for forming the thermally conductive tube. Specifically the metal clad composite comprises an innermost layer formed of corrosion resistant metal or metal alloy such as titanium niobium nickel zirconium gold tantalum platinum palladium silver and alloys thereof and one or more outer layers comprising metal or metal alloy of higher conductivity and or lower costs such as copper aluminum brass bronze nickel silver and alloys thereof.

In another embodiment polymeric materials that contain thermally conductive materials and exhibit adequate heat transfer property can be used for forming the thermally conductive tube of the present invention. Suitable polymeric materials include but are not limited to thermally conductive polymers polymer metal composite materials polymer carbon composite materials and polymer ceramic composite materials.

The fuel cell sub bundles can be packed inside the thermally conductive tube in any configuration without limitation. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the fuel cell sub bundles are assembled into a core structure which can be inserted into and removed from the thermally conductive tube as a compact unit.

The current collectors of the multiple fuel cell sub bundles in this specific embodiment illustrated by are arranged in a configuration particularly suitable for parallel connections thereof. Specifically all the common current collectors of the fuel cell sub bundles extend from one end of the core structure while all the individual current collectors extend from the other end of such core structure. Therefore the multiple fuel cell sub bundles can be readily connected in parallel by electrically coupling all the common current collectors with a first terminal either positive or negative at one end of the core structure and all the individual current collectors with a second terminal either negative or positive at the other end.

Alternatively the multiple fuel cell sub bundles may be arranged in a different configuration that is suitable for serial connections. For example the common current collector of one fuel cell sub bundle and the individual current collectors of a preceding fuel cell sub bundle extend from one end of the core structure while the individual current collectors of such fuel cell sub bundle and the common current collector of a subsequent fuel cell sub bundle extend from the other end of the core structure etc. thereby forming a head to tail arrangement. Detachable terminal connectors or terminal elements with built in coupling wires can be used for connecting such fuel cell sub bundles in series consistent with descriptions in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 399 232 6 403 248 6 403 517 6 444 339 and 6 495 281. Further a porous insulating layer can be used to cover each fuel cell sub bundle in this configuration in order to prevent electrical shorting between adjacent serially connected fuel cell sub bundles while allowing diffusion of fuel or oxidant fluid therethrough to contact the outer electrocatalyst layer of each microfibrous fuel cell in the sub bundles.

As shown in the thermally conductive tube is perforated near both ends and the distance between the first set of perforations A and the second set of perforations B is smaller than the distance between the two potting members of the core structure to be inserted thereinto. When the core structure is positioned inside such thermally conductive tube the perforations A and B provide access to the shell sides but not the bore sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements concurrently the two open ends of the thermally conductive tube provide access to the bore sides but not the shell sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements.

Perforations A and B near both ends of the thermally conductive tube communicates with the central section and a fuel containing or oxidant containing fluid can therefore be introduced into the central section to feed the shell sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements contained in the core structure . Likewise the end sections and communicates with the bore sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements through openings on the respective outer surfaces of the potting members A and B and an oxidant containing or fuel containing fluid can thus be introduced into the end sections and to feed the bore sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements.

Although the above described examples illustrate core structures and fuel cell bundles containing multiple fuel cell sub bundles therein it will be appreciated that the core structures and fuel cell bundles of the present invention may comprise a single fuel cell sub bundle which are consistent with the general disclosure of this specification and within the broad scope of the present invention.

A further aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell bundle that comprises one or more microfibrous fuel cell elements placed in an air channel tube each microfibrous fuel cell element comprising a an inner current collector b a hollow fibrous membrane separator comprising an electrolyte medium c an inner electrocatalyst layer d an outer electrocatalyst layer and e optionally an outer current collector.

The term air channel tube as used herein broadly refers to a tubular structure that can be used for delivery of either oxidant such as air or oxygen gas or fuel such as hydrogen gas or methanol and such term is therefore not limited to mere delivery of air. Such air channel tube can be manufacturing using any suitable material such as metals metal alloys carbon graphite carbon fiber or fiberglass reinforced composite materials polymer composite materials ceramics etc.

One particular advantage achieved by the present invention is the even and uniform distribution of oxidant or fuel throughout the entire system the oxidant or the fuel is uniformly passed through the bore of each air channel tube of each fuel cell bundle and the microfibrous fuel cells inside each air channel tube are therefore evenly exposed to the oxidant or the fuel regardless of the number of fuel cell bundles contained in the system of the present invention.

In a preferred embodiment such air channel tube is a thermally conductive tube that functions also as a heat exchange tube for transmitting heat generated by the microfibrous fuel cell elements out of the fuel cell bundle. Further such air channel tube can be a thermally and electrically conductive tube which can function as both a heat exchange tube and a common outer current collector for the microfibrous fuel cell elements disposed therein. Correspondingly the microfibrous fuel cell elements can be devoid of additional outer current collectors.

The thermally and or electrically conductive tube as used in the present invention can be formed of any suitable materials that are sufficiently corrosion resistant which include but are not limited to carbonaceous materials such as graphite and carbon carbon fiber or fiberglass reinforced composite materials metals and metal alloys such as titanium niobium nickel zirconium gold tantalum platinum palladium silver and combinations thereof thermally and or electrically conductive polymers polymeric composites and thermally and or electrically conductive ceramics.

Preferably such thermally and or electrically conductive tube comprises a metal clad composite having two or more metal layers bonded together by solid phase bonding in which the innermost layer comprises corrosion resistant metal or metal alloy such as titanium niobium nickel zirconium gold tantalum platinum palladium silver and combinations thereof and wherein the outer layer s comprises metal or metal alloy of higher conductivity and or lower costs such as copper aluminum brass bronze nickel silver and combinations thereof.

In another embodiment of the present invention such air channel tube is a polymeric tube. Polymeric tubes that are sufficiently thin or are made of polymeric composites containing thermally conductive materials may exhibit adequate heat transfer property and can be used also as heat exchange tubes in the present invention. Preferably the polymeric tube used herein comprises a membrane wall having a thickness in a range of from about 25 microns to about 1 millimeter and may be made of a material such as thermally conductive polymers polymer metal composite materials polymer carbon composite materials or polymer ceramic composite materials. Preferably such polymeric tube comprises a polymeric material of sufficiently high melting point i.e. 80 C. more preferably 100 C. and most preferably 120 C. so that such polymeric tube can survive the elevated temperature of the electrochemical reaction environment in the fuel cell bundles.

Further such polymeric tube may comprise a membrane wall that is non porous and hydrophilic. When such polymeric tube is immersed in an aqueous heat exchanging solution water diffuses through its hydrophilic membrane wall into its bore side thus supplying water vapor into the inner volume of such polymeric tube for humidifying the microfibrous fuel cell elements disposed therein. Polymeric materials specifically suitable for forming such nonporous hydrophilic membrane wall include but are not limited to perfluorosulfonate ionomers such as the Nafion membrane material manufactured by DuPont at Fayetteville N.C. Flemion membrane material manufactured by Asahi Glass Company at Tokyo Japan Aciplex membrane material manufactured by Asahi Chemical Company at Osaka Japan among which the Nafion membrane material is the most preferred.

Alternatively such polymeric tube may comprise a membrane wall that is microporous and hydrophobic. When such polymeric tube is immersed in an aqueous heat exchanging solution the heat exchanging solution cannot pass through its microporous membrane wall due to the hydrophobicity while water vapor derived from such aqueous solution can diffuse through the microporous membrane wall into its lumen to humidify the feed or oxidant stream that passes through the lumen of such polymeric tube.

A thermally conductive polymeric tube with a non porous hydrophilic or a microporous hydrophobic membrane wall is therefore capable of concurrently performing triple functions as an air channel tube a heat exchange tube and a humidifier for the microfibrous fuel cell elements disposed therein and use of which effectively achieves integration of thermal and humidity management.

In a specific embodiment the air channel tube and the microfibrous fuel cell elements placed therein in are sized for providing three fluid paths through the fuel cell bundle which including 1 a feed or oxidant path at the bore sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements 2 an oxidant or feed path at the shell sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements inside the air channel tube and 3 a heat exchanging fluid path outside the air channel tube. These three fluid paths are separated from each other by the respective walls of the membrane separators of the microfibrous fell cells and the air channel tube. Preferably the hollow fibrous membrane separators of the microfibrous fuel cell elements extend beyond the air channel tube at both ends. In such manner the air channel tube and the membrane separators of the microfibrous fuel cells can be separately potted to seal their respective bore sides from the shell sides so that fuel such as hydrogen or methanol oxidant such as oxygen and heat exchanging fluid can be separately passed through the fuel cell bundle through the above described three fluid paths.

A still further aspect of the present invention relates to a fuel cell assembly comprising an assembly of the above described fuel cell bundles as positioned in a housing that comprises multiple leak tightly separated compartments and multiple fluid inlets and outlets arranged for separately passing a fuel containing fluid an oxidant containing fluid and a heat exchange fluid through the fuel cell bundles for generation of electrical and thermal energy.

In an exemplary embodiment as shown in a fuel cell assembly comprises a housing having two open ends and multiple fuel cell bundles disposed therein. Each fuel cell bundle comprises a thermally conductive tube having a core structure inserted therein as described hereinabove. A first pair of tubesheets A B and a second pair of tubesheets A B are provided for mounting the fuel cell bundles . Further such tubesheets A B A and B are leak tightly secured to the inner surface of the housing thereby dividing the interior volume of the housing into five separate compartments which include a central compartment a first intermediate compartment A a second intermediate compartment B a first end compartment A and a second end compartment B.

The central compartment defined by the first pair of tubesheets A and B communicates only with the shell sides of the thermally conductive tubes of the fuel cell bundles . The first and second intermediate compartments A and B communicate with the bore sides of such thermally conductive tubes as well as the shell sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements disposed therein through perforations near both ends of the thermally conductive tubes. However such first and second intermediate compartments A and B are isolated from the bore sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements by potting members at both ends of the microfibrous fuel cell elements as described hereinabove. The first and second end compartments A and B communicate with the bore sides of the microfibrous fuel cells of each fuel cell bundle through openings on the potting members at both ends of the microfibrous fuel cell elements.

Therefore a heat exchanging fluid can be introduced into the central compartment and passed through the shell sides of the thermally conductive tubes of the fuel cell bundles to remove heat generated by the microfibrous fuel cell elements placed inside the thermally conductive tubes from the fuel cell bundles . The heat exchanging fluid discharged by such fuel cell assembly is preferably passed through a heat exchanger so that the thermal energy carried by such heat exchanging fluid is conveyed to the heat exchanger which may be either a radiator inside a motor vehicle or a domestic residence or a water heating system of an industrial facility or the alike. The heat exchanging fluid deplete of thermal energy is preferably circulated back into the fuel cell assembly for collection of more heat therefrom.

Moreover a fuel containing or oxidant containing fluid can be introduced into the first intermediate compartment A for feeding the shell sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements inside the thermally conductive tubes and the spent feed can be discharged from the second intermediate compartment B. Likewise an oxidant containing or fuel containing fluid can be introduced into the first end compartment A for feeding the bore sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements and the spent feed can be discharge from the second end compartment B.

Therefore the fuel the oxidant and the heat exchanging fluid are separately passed through the fuel cell bundles in the housing for generation of electrical and thermal energy thereby.

The present invention in another aspect provides an improved fluid introduction mechanism which comprises multiple fluid inlets and outlets that are all parallelly align with the longitudinal axis of the housing for separately introducing multiple fluids into and out of multiple compartments of the housing along directions that are substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of such housing.

Specifically a heat exchanging inlet tube extends through the tubesheets A and A into the central compartment for introducing a heat exchanging fluid thereinto and a corresponding heat exchanging outlet tube extends out of the central compartment through the tubesheets A and A for discharging used heat exchanging fluid out of the housing . A fuel or oxidant inlet tube extends through the tubesheets A into the first intermediate compartment A for feeding a fuel containing or oxidant containing fluid to the shell sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements while a corresponding fuel or oxidant outlet let tube extends out of the second intermediate compartment B through the tubesheets B A and A for discharging spent fuel or oxidant fluid out of the housing . Further an oxidant or fuel is provided in the first end compartment A for feeding the bore sides of the microfibrous fuel cell elements and spent oxidant or fuel is discharged out of the housing from the second end compartment B with or without additional inlet and outlet.

All the above mentioned inlet and outlet tubes are substantially parallel to the longitudinal axis of the housing for introducing fluids into and discharging fluids from the housing along directions that are substantially parallel to its longitudinal axis as indicated by the arrow heads in . Such parallel configuration of the fluid inlets and outlets enables construction of a fuel cell assembly with no transverse openings on its housing which can be easily mounted or otherwise incorporated into an energy consuming system for provision of electrical and thermal energy thereto.

One fuel cell bundle is illustratively shown in to demonstrate the relative positions of the tubesheets and compartments with respect to the fuel cell bundle. Specifically the perforations on the thermally conductive tube of such fuel cell bundle are located in the first and second intermediate compartments A and B and the two open ends of the thermally conductive tube of such fuel cell bundle terminate in the first and second end compartments A and B.

A heat exchanging inlet tube extends from outside of the housing through the tubesheets A and A and terminates in the central compartment . In contrast a heat exchange outlet tube extends from the central compartment through the tubesheets A and A and terminates outside of the housing .

A fuel or oxidant inlet tube extends from outside of the housing through the tubesheet A and terminates in the first intermediate compartment A while a fuel or oxidant outlet tube extends from the second intermediate compartment B through the tubesheets B A and A and terminates outside of the housing .

Additionally a release tube is provided which extends from the isolation compartment C through the tubesheet and terminates outside of the housing . In the event of tubesheet rupture or leakage the escaped fuel or oxidant first enters the isolation compartment C and is immediately discharged out of the housing by the release tube before it can reach a threshold concentration and or temperature that may result in cell fire or irreversible damage to the cells.

An alternative embodiment of the present invention relates to a fuel cell assembly that comprises multiple fuel cell bundles position in a housing wherein each fuel cell bundle contains multiple microfibrous fuel cell elements placed inside an air channel tube as described hereinabove. The housing is compartmentalized for separately passing a fuel an oxidant and a heat exchanging fluid though the fuel cell bundles consistent with the disclosure hereinabove.

Such fuel cell assembly may further comprise at least one hollow humidifying fiber for each fuel cell bundle. Such hollow humidifying fiber may comprise a nonporous hydrophilic membrane wall or a microporous hydrophobic membrane wall. The humidifying fiber extends through the bore of the air channel tube and opens into the central compartment of the fuel cell assembly which is preferably filled with an aqueous heat exchanging fluid. Water derived from such aqueous heat exchanging fluid flows in the bore of the humidifying fiber and through the inner volume of the air channel tube therefore providing water vapor for humidifying the oxidant or the fuel and the microfibrous fuel cell elements inside such air channel tube.

The humidifying fibers of the present invention may comprise a hydrophilic polymeric material such as the Nafion membrane material manufactured by DuPont at Fayetteville N.C. and fabricated by Microcell Corporation or a microporous hydrophobic polymeric material such as polysulfone membrane material manufactured by Amersham Biosciences Piscataway N.J. such polysulfone membrane material can be further treated with hydrophobicity imparting materials to further enhance the hydrophobicity thereof .

When a portion of water in the aqueous heat exchanging solution is used for humidifying the microfibrous fuel cell elements in the fuel cell assembly it is necessary to supply water to the heat exchanging solution to compensate for the water consumed by the microfibrous fuel cell elements.

One preferred embodiment of the present invention therefore collects water generated by the electrochemical reaction in the microfibrous fuel cells and uses it as water supply for the heat exchanging circuitry.

While the invention has been described herein with reference to specific embodiments features and aspects it will be recognized that the invention is not thus limited but rather extends in utility to other modifications variations applications and embodiments and accordingly all such other modifications variations applications and embodiments are to be regarded as being within the spirit and scope of the invention.

