---

title: Federated route production
abstract: A route can be generated through utilization of a conventional manner, such as a portable electronic device accessing a database with roads, traffic information, weather data, and the like. As a user approaches a private area, the route can be augmented with travel information concerning the private area. Artificial intelligence techniques can be used to determine if a route should be augmented, to infer what augmentations to make, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08428859&OS=08428859&RS=08428859
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08428859
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071214
---
This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 115 entitled ROUTE MONETIZATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 139 entitled DESTINATION AUCTIONED THROUGH BUSINESS OF INTEREST .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 151 entitled GENERATIONAL INTELLIGENT NAVIGATION MANIPULATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 167 entitled SOCIAL NETWORK BASED ROUTES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 182 entitled ROUTE TRANSFER BETWEEN DEVICES .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 188 entitled ADDITIONAL CONTENT BASED ON INTENDED TRAVEL DESTINATION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 206 entitled AUTOMATIC SPLICES FOR TARGETED ADVERTISEMENTS .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 210 entitled PEDESTRIAN ROUTE PRODUCTION .

This application relates to U.S. patent application draft with Ser. No. 11 957 219 entitled ROUTE GENERATION BASED UPON ACTIVITY CRITERIA .

The subject specification relates generally to traffic routing and in particular to providing a route with details from a number of sources.

Computer driven route planning applications are utilized to aid users in locating points of interest such as particular buildings addresses and the like. Additionally in several existent commercial applications users can vary a zoom level thereby enabling variation of context and detail as a zoom level of a map is altered. For example as a user zooms in on a particular location details such as names of local roads identification and location of police and fire stations identification and location of public services such as libraries museums and the like can be provided to the user. When zooming out the user can glean information from the map such as location of the point of interest within a municipality state providence and or country proximity of the point of interest to major freeways proximity of the point of interest to a specific city and the like.

Furthermore conventional computer implemented mapping applications often include route planning applications that can be utilized to provide users with directions between different locations. Pursuant to an example a user can provide a route planning application with a beginning point of travel and an end point of travel e.g. beginning and ending addresses . The route planning application can include or utilize representations of roads and intersections and one or more algorithms to output a suggested route of travel. These algorithms can output routes depending upon user selected parameters. For instance a commercial route planning application can include a check box that enables a user to specify that she wishes to avoid highways. Similarly a user can inform the route planning application that she wishes to travel on a shortest route or a route that takes a least amount of time as determined by underlying algorithms . Over the last several years individuals have grown to rely increasingly on route planning applications to aid them in everything from locating a friend s house to planning cross country road trips.

The following discloses a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to disclose some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is disclosed later.

Conventionally travel routes are generated using a main database of information. For instance a user can access an Internet mapping web site and enter a starting point and an intended destination. The web site accesses a central database that holds maps traffic information weather data etc. Based upon details from the central database a direction set is constructed between the starting point and the intended destination. There are several deficiencies that become apparent in using conventional route generation database information is not up to date routes are generated in advance of travel such that changes cannot be easily made during travel etc.

The disclosed innovation supplements a route with information from a source with alternate information. A route can be initially generated and as a user approaches an established area the route can be augmented with improved information. For instance when a user approaches a metropolitan area up to date routes and traffic patterns can be used to alter the route. A gather component obtains information from a supplemental source and a selection component determines if the route should be augmented with at least some of the obtained information. In addition to route modification maps e.g. directional placements without specific directional instructions can be altered though practice of aspects disclosed in the subject specification.

Conventional improvements to traffic routing have focused on improving the quality of a database used to generate a route. A large market share has been dominated by central database advancements and little attention has been paid to altering a route through use of supplemental sources. Implementation of the disclosed innovation can produce an unexpected result that routes can be as good as if not better than routes generated from a solitary database.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification can be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It can be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications can be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to disclose concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. When a component unit module etc. makes an inference or determination it is to be appreciated that the inference or determination can be performed through utilization of artificial intelligence techniques.

Referring now to a system is disclosed for selecting if a route should be augmented based upon supplemental information. Commonly a route is generated at a home computer or through utilization of a navigation system e.g. portable in vehicle as part of another device such as a cellular telephone etc. . When generating the route a central database is contacted e.g. locally remotely etc. and the route is constructed based upon central database information. The disclosed innovation allows the route to be modified by information from various locations.

A collection component obtains information from an auxiliary source such as a company database municipality broadcasting entity etc. Example information includes route solution data street and building information and the like. The system can be implemented upon a vehicle e.g. automobile motorcycle bicycle airplane helicopter motorboat self balancing transportation device etc. to assist in route alteration. A detection mechanism can be implemented that enables discovery of sources capable of supplying information that can be used for route augmentation. If a discovery is made then the collection component can gather relevant information from the source. In another embodiment information can be broadcast by auxiliary sources e.g. over radio frequencies and the collection component obtains information from the broadcast.

Obtained information is analyzed by a selection component such that a decision can be made concerning route augmentation. The selection component resolves if information from the auxiliary source should augment a route generated through utilization of a primary source. Choosing data from the auxiliary source for use in direction set alteration can be performed by the selection component if the resolution is concluded with a positive answer e.g. a change should take place . If a negative answer is an outcome of selection component resolution then an original route can remain unchanged.

According to one embodiment the collection component can obtain information from systems similar to the system e.g. directly from other systems from a central server etc. . Based upon the response of other systems operation of the collection component or selection component can be modified. For example an auxiliary source can provide poor information to a number of different systems and the systems can signify that the information was of poor quality. The selection component can use the history of other systems in determining if a change should be made based on information from the poor quality source e.g. since information was poor in other instances then information should not be used to make an alteration . Moreover history specific to a user can be taken into account for route augmentation. For instance if a user has a positive reaction along a path then it can become more difficult e.g. a higher standard is to be met for the path to be replaced e.g. augmenting the route with a different path . In addition tendencies of a user can be taken into account if a user enjoys shopping then it can become more difficult e.g. a higher standard is to be met for the path taking a user past a shopping mall to be replaced with a path that does not include a shopping mall.

The collection component can function such that obtained information can be a route solution. For instance a request can be made taking a user from an entrance gate to her desk and her company can respond with a route solution e.g. the route solution functions as obtained data . The route solution can include directions to reach her desk but exclude floorplans for buildings she passes or a floorplan of her office building. The selection component can augment a route by deleting a route portion and or stitching in a route solution obtained by the collection component .

The following is an example of an implementation of the system used in a vehicle. The collection component can gather a route constructed off an Internet map generation web site and hold the route in flash memory. The route can take a user from her home to a business campus with many roads buildings etc. As the user approaches the campus the collection component can request for updated information from a server located upon the business campus the request can include route information traffic information accidents demographic data etc. The server can supply information that a road the user plans on taking is closed and a detour is suggested. The selection component can analyze the information and determine that the detour information should be augmented onto the original route. A result is outputted from the selection component with appropriate information e.g. information to make the change and transferred to a component capable of making an appropriate change. While being disclosed as taking place at a time later then route generation it is to be appreciated that aspects of the subject specification can take place prior to concurrent with or after initial route generation actions.

While the collection component and selection component are directed toward route augmentation it is to be appreciated that they can be utilized to augment a map without directional instructions. The collection component can obtain information from an auxiliary source. The selection component can resolve if information from the auxiliary source should augment a map generated through utilization of a primary source. Aspects of other components disclosed in the subject specification can be directed to map alteration in addition to route alteration.

Now referring to a system is disclosed highlighting various possible aspects related to the collection component . A communication component can engage with other devices to transfer information such as to send a request for information receiving information from an auxiliary source etc. Operation can take place wirelessly in a hard wired manner employment of security technology e.g. encryption etc. Moreover the communication component can utilize various protective features such as performing a virus scan on obtained data and blocking information that is positive for a virus. The communication can be active e.g. request answer or passive e.g. monitoring broadcasted data flow.

The communication component can be utilized by a search component that locates an auxiliary source or information produced by the auxiliary source. A continuous scan can be performed by the search component to located sources of information that have a potential to be relevant in route augmentation. The search component can initiate a request to an auxiliary source to provide relevant information if an auxiliary source is located. In addition the search component can monitor various channels to determine information that is relevant toward route augmentation. For instance the search component can recognize that a vehicle operating the system has entered a new city and perform a check if updated road construction information is available. According to one embodiment the search component can access a remote catalog where federated services e.g. a municipality offering a map can advertise available maps in the catalog.

Often times auxiliary sources can configure to be reluctant to provide information to a user. For instance a military instillation can be hesitant to provide detailed maps to any requesting user. A security component can determine if an auxiliary source desires authentication and provide appropriate metadata e.g. a username and password to the auxiliary source. An auxiliary source can validate the system e.g. through analyzing the metadata and provide map information to the security component based upon a successful validation. If map information is not provided e.g. due to unsuccessful validation or a portion of requested map information is provided then the security component can determine if another source can provide similar information and attempt to gain data from the similar source. Therefore the security component can engage the auxiliary source such that the auxiliary source is able to validate a request for the information obtainment.

It is possible that multiple sources can have relevant information that is conflicting and or inconsistent to manage these situations an election component can designate an auxiliary source from which to use information from a plurality of auxiliary sources. In an illustrative example a vehicle can enter a new city as well as a new county at one time a county government and city government produce independent maps on traffic patterns. The election component can determine which map e.g. city or county should be used in route augmentation. This can limit information transferred to the selection component and thus conserve system resources e.g. improve processing time . The election component can also configure to merge information together from multiple sources. For instance major street information from the county map can be merged with other street information from the city map to create a hybrid map. Various factors can be used in selecting a map such as user input community reviews veracity of information personal history etc. Elections can take place at other times such as implementing as part of selection component operation.

Information from auxiliary sources can be used to modify a primary source through an update component that alters information in the primary source based upon information obtained from the auxiliary source. A user can enter into a remote area upon which a primary source has little information. Upon entering the area the collection component can obtain information on roads terrain traffic etc. The update component can prepare a revision for a database that produced an initial route and transmit the revision through utilization of the communication component . The update component can utilize other information such as if the data is ultimately chosen by the selection component before determining if a revision is appropriate.

Different pieces of information such as a personal profile an original route etc. can be held on storage . Storage can arrange in a number of different configurations including as random access memory battery backed memory hard disk magnetic tape etc. Various features can be implemented upon storage such as compression and automatic back up e.g. use of a Redundant Array of Independent Drives configuration . Output of the collection component e.g. route information obtained from an auxiliary source transfers to a selection component that resolves if information from the auxiliary source should augment a route generated through utilization of a primary source.

Now referring to a system is disclosed highlighting various possible aspects related to the selection component . Commonly information is initially gathered from an auxiliary source through use of a collection component . The collection component can perform various processes upon the information and transfer at least part of the information to the selection component .

A correspondence component can engage with other devices in information transfer. Operation can take place wirelessly in a hard wired manner employment of security technology e.g. encryption etc. Moreover the correspondence component can utilize various protective features such as performing a virus scan on obtained data and blocking information that is positive for a virus.

Information obtained by the collection component can be processed by an analysis component that evaluates the obtained information. Example evaluations can include quality of information e.g. information is of higher or lower detail than a generated route reliability of information e.g. information is provided by a for profit company that can have an ulterior motive accuracy of information e.g. in a traffic example time since statistics were taken . According to one embodiment the analysis component can employ a statistical table that enables relatively easy resolution. Comparisons checks weights metrics historical data and the like can be used to provide values for information. For instance information can be given a high score if a recording is recent however the score can be lowered if the information is supplied by a for profit company. In an example resolution illustration if information has an overall positive score then it is used to augment a route while if information has a neutral or negative score then it is not used.

An artificial intelligence component can make at least one inference or at least one determination in relation to the information obtainment or information augmentation resolution commonly based upon evaluation results. For instance vehicle sensors e.g. of a vehicle operating the system can determine the vehicle is moving relatively slowly as compared to a speed limit. In addition routes with traffic information from a secondary source can be collected by the system . The artificial intelligence component can infer that a user wants a different route e.g. due to the observed slow speed and determines that the route should be modified through collected information. The artificial intelligence component can operate in conjunction with the collection component such as determining if a located source is reliable and inferring if a user has authorization to view information e.g. through analysis of a personal profile .

Artificial intelligence component can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences and or creating making determinations related to applying a service e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Bayesian networks e.g. created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. Methods also include methods for the capture of logical relationships such as theorem provers or more heuristic rule based expert systems. The artificial intelligence component can make a determination if information from an auxiliary source is to be used to augment a route.

While the artificial intelligence component can configure to perform complex actions it is to be appreciated actions can be performed. For instance a database originally generating a direction set can have a hole such as traveling through a private business campus. A single provider can be contacted e.g. a main server of the business campus and the provider can supply missing map information. Provided map information can be integrated into an existing map with little to no extra evaluation.

Use of information towards augmentation can be subject to financial reward constraints that are processed by a transaction component that performs a fiscal operation in relation to the information obtainment or the information augmentation resolution. An entity can require payment for providing information for using information to update a central database to augment a route etc. The transaction component can perform actions to meet constraints such as debiting a user account and crediting a provider account. While fiscal amounts are commonly transacted it is to be appreciated that other commodities can be exchanged such as coupons meeting of contractual obligations e.g. canceling of debts tax credits etc. In addition the transaction component can perform a reward function concerning primary source alteration. For example a user account can be increased with credits for future route generation from a central server for providing an update e.g. current speed or traffic information etc. . The selection component can output a result commonly if information should be used to augment a route or an augmentation that should take place.

According to an alternate embodiment the system can perform little processing while a large amount of calculations are performed by the auxiliary source. For instance a route can be generated using a conventional map database e.g. primary source and the communication component of can transfer the route to an auxiliary source. The auxiliary source can change route information based upon local map information and the changed route can be obtained by the collection component e.g. the changed route is obtained information. The selection component resolves if information from the auxiliary source should augment a route generated through utilization of a primary source by determining if the changed route should replace an original route for presentment.

Now referring to a system is disclosed that can create and augment a route as well as present the route to a user. A generation component can produce a route from a primary source such as a map database. For example the generation component can produce a route through pre destination. A user can have a habit of traveling from her home to her office during weekdays at morning hours. The generation component can construct a route based upon previous engagements of the user held in a personal profile of storage of . Moreover the generation component can receive information from the user through an interface component such as a starting point and intended destination. From the received information a route can be constructed according to desired constraints e.g. fastest time shortest distance avoiding tolls etc. .

The constructed route can be gathered by a collection component and retained in storage of . The collection component can perform analysis upon the route and determine sources that are likely to produce relevant augmentation information. The collection component can discover sources and extract information likely to be beneficial. A resolution can be made if an augmentation of the route should take place based on obtained information through utilization of a selection component .

A route can be modified based upon a result of the selection component e.g. deciding that an alteration should be made through use of an implementation component . The implementation component augments the route with information from the auxiliary source commonly when the selection component produces a positive result. Augmentation allows a route to be modified information to be added to a route e.g. a street commonly known as Main Street has recently changed in name to MLK Drive inaccurate information to be removed e.g. outdated warnings of heavy traffic congestion etc.

The augmented route can be presented to the user through a disclosure component . A disclosure component allows an individual to appreciate a direction set and act upon the direction set. A non exhaustive list of disclosure components include a display screen touch screen speaker system virtual reality environment Braille production system printer etc. In addition the disclosure component can present information in multiple formats such as showing a video with audio capabilities.

Now referring to an example auxiliary source is disclosed that provides information for route alteration. An exchange component can engage with other devices in information transfer. Operation can take place wirelessly in a hard wired manner employment of security technology e.g. encryption etc. Moreover the exchange component can utilize various protective features such as performing a virus scan on obtained data and blocking information that is positive for a virus. The exchange component can operate as a means for collecting a request to obtain information concerning local paths. The request can originate from an entity that is making the request in order to augment a direction set e.g. a vehicle operating the system of .

Information from the exchange component can be analyzed by a regulation component . The auxiliary source can hold information in storage that has different characteristics such as quality sensitivity accuracy etc. Based on various factors e.g. information factors request factors contextual factors such as communication strength quality the regulation component can determine if at least part of information is to be transferred to a unit e.g. a requester a third party etc. . If a request is denied the regulation component can send a notice to a requestor through use of the exchange component . The regulation component can function as a means for determining if a requesting entity is authorized to be provided the information concerning local paths.

If the regulation component determines that information should be provided then a processor can transmit the information. For example the processor can extract the information from storage encrypt the information and transfer it to an intended location through use of the exchange component . However if the regulation component denies a request then the processor can send out a denial notice. The processor can implement as a means for acting upon the determination result. Acting upon the determination result can include providing a portion less than a whole of information requested providing the information or denying the information request.

The auxiliary source can require payment for information to be transmitted information to be used in route augmentation etc. A finance component can determine payment capabilities of a user e.g. requesting unit and make appropriate actions for payment e.g. withdraw money from an account associated with a requesting unit . According to one embodiment the finance component can work in conjunction with the transaction component of . The finance component can operate as a means for performing an economic function in relation to acting upon the determination result.

In addition actions for payment can take place in relation to user response to a commercial detail e.g. presented with a route . For example an advertisement can be played that a user should stop at a highway exit for a cup of coffee. If the user takes the exit buys the cup of coffee buys a different item etc. then payments of varying amounts can be made to an advertisement hosting service.

Now referring to a methodology is disclosed that performs actions in conjunction with augmenting a map with information from a supplemental resource e.g. raw street information a route solution etc. . While disclosed as a methodology for altering a map it is to be appreciated that aspects disclosed in the methodology and related methodologies can be used in altering a route. At block a search can take place to discover supplemental sources that can produce information relevant to augmentation. Discovering resources can include determining a resource Internet Protocol address extracting location information from storage monitoring airways etc.

Event allows data to be gathered from the supplemental resource that can be used to augment a map. According to one embodiment a supplemental resource can freely offer information concerning newly constructed roads where the information is held in a database. A link can be established with the supplemental resource the information can be downloaded to local storage scanned for viruses and inconsistencies and the like.

Moving to action a choice is made concerning which data will be used to alter a map. Detailed analysis can take place in order to determine an information piece that should be used for alteration and or an information piece that should be ignored. In addition there can be an evaluation as to how information will be used. For instance data can be received disclosing new roads of a development and proposed road names however the new roads do not have signs posted listing the proposed names. Action can determine that the roads should be used to alter the map e.g. added to the map however names should not be added since they are proposed names and signs will likely not be posted that can be followed by a user.

At block the map can be altered to reflect the choice made in action . This can include adding information to an existing map e.g. placing new roads in blank areas deleting map aspects and replacing the aspects with chosen data e.g. Vine Street is actually called Wine Street and a map change is made etc. A check can be made to ensure that alterations are appropriate. For instance a global positioning system can be checked to ensure a newly displayed road is not leading a user in a dangerous situation e.g. off a cliff .

Event allows an altered map to be broadcast to a user. Commonly broadcasting includes disclosing the map through use of a presentment component such as a monitor. This can be done upon a screen integrated in a vehicle however other embodiments can be used such as transmitting the map to a mobile telephone associated with the user.

At block a primary resource e.g. a producer of an initial map can have a database altered with information from the supplemental resource. Primary resource renovation enables new maps to be generated that include up to date information. According to one embodiment a notification is sent to a primary resource suggesting changes that should be made. However renovation can be more forceful where renovation takes place automatically without primary resource approval.

Various financial transactions can take place in relation to methodology and these transactions can be implemented at act . Two example transactions include a fee to be paid to a supplemental resource for providing new information and a fee to be paid for renovating the primary resource. Money can be extracted from an account of a user to be paid to a supplemental resource and money can be credited to the account for providing the update. Included in act is determining an amount that should be paid a type of reward that should be paid e.g. monetary non monetary etc. how to carry out a transaction e.g. through use of credit card accounts wire transfers etc. .

Additionally act can include operating an auction for advertisement disclosure in conjunction with route augmentation. For instance a user can be traveling to a large shopping plaza with an indoor mall. A request can be made to a supplemental resource for information that can be used to augment a route to lead a user to the mall. The request can include demographic information of passengers in a vehicle and a host can run an auction to stores in the mall such that an advertisement is disclosed with the route or that a route lead a user to a mall door that in near a particular store e.g. a store associated with a winning bid . Act allows for the auction to be run as well as for finances to transfer between different parties.

Moving to block an inquiry can be made as to parameters that associate with information collection. A supplemental resource can desire to receive payment for providing information for information to be kept under strict confidentiality can require authentication user name and password for example to access the information etc. Commonly the inquiry can be made through sending a message to the supplemental resource extracting metadata related to information etc.

A check can take place to determine if the parameters can be met. For instance in order to obtain information an amount of money is to be paid however the user does not have enough money in her account to meet the parameter. In another example is the user does not have valid credentials to access the data. Therefore the methodology can be terminated at event e.g. an original map remains intact without alteration . In an alternative embodiment other actions can take place if parameters cannot be met. For example a request can be made to a user to authorize an account to transfer into a negative amount when an account has inadequate funds.

If parameters can be met then event allows a request to be made to the supplemental resource for information capable of being used to alter a map. The request can be pointed such as requesting information related to airspace that has relatively frequent airplane travel. However a request can be general in nature such as asking for information without a specific direction.

Moving to block a result to the request is obtained and processed. If the supplemental resource denies the request then a denial is obtained. However the supplemental resource can send at least a portion of the information where the information can be retained in storage. In addition various processes can take place upon the obtained information such as scanning for viruses compressing information verifying consistency and the like.

Different notices can be beneficial for operation of the methodology as well as related actions so there can be sending appropriate notifications at event . For instance the supplemental resource can benefit from receiving a notification that information was successfully obtained. The notice can be sent and the supplemental resource can perform financial actions based upon the notice.

Moving on the block a map can be analyzed to determine characteristics of the map. For instance there can be a check on how long ago a map was last altered. If a long time has passed since a previous alteration then this can signal that the map could benefit from a change. Also other known maps can be examined to see if similar information has been used with success.

A check can be made to determine if the map should be changed. If comparison of the map against obtained information determines that there are several deficiencies e.g. shipping lanes are shown in the information that are not represented in the map then an alteration can be approved. However if an alteration is not to take place e.g. obtained information is not from a reputable source then a standard map can be produced .

A check can occur to determine if an alteration is worthwhile to a user. For instance a slight modification can cost a user a relatively large amount of money. A determination can be made that the modification would not be a beneficial expenditure of funds for the user and a result can be made that the map should not be changed. If the map is not to be changed then the standard map can be produced at event .

Various notices can be beneficial for operation of the methodology as well as related actions so there can be sending appropriate notifications at event . For instance the supplemental resource can benefit from receiving a notification that information was successfully utilized when altering a map. The notice can be sent and the supplemental resource can perform financial actions based upon the notice.

If a map should be changed and the change would be worthwhile then an alteration can be made at event . While the alteration can be a straight modification of a map e.g. placing information into a map it is possible for variations to take place. For instance obtained information can use colors to show data while a display unit implemented with the methodology cannot display colors. Event can make a modification to the information such that the alteration allows for words to be disclosed as opposed to colors e.g. information is send where red roads have heavy traffic the alteration allows for a word heavy to be shown on the road .

For purposes of simplicity of explanation methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter were shown and described as a series of blocks. However it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers. The term article of manufacture as used is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Moreover while a subset of the subject specification discloses operation of aspects though utilization of a vehicle it is to be appreciated aspects can be practiced through alternative manners e.g. walking swimming etc. 

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a program that runs on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor multiprocessor or multi core processor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch . . . microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed subject matter can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with the subject specification. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the specification for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the specification for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that can run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures can also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that can further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive can also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like can also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media can contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown can include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which can connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter can facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which can also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Additionally it should be noted that one or more components could be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components could also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but known by those of skill in the art.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject specification but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject specification are possible. Accordingly the subject specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

