---

title: Power management apparatus
abstract: In one aspect, there is disclosed a power management device that includes a housing, at least one input port, and at least one output port. Also included is a CPU and a user interface. Electrical circuitry connects the ports, CPU and user interface. The CPU includes a real-time operating system and programs actively controlling a power usage.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07814348&OS=07814348&RS=07814348
owner: Adaptive Materials, Inc.
number: 07814348
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070425
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 795 006 filed Apr. 26 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract number FA865006C2664 awarded by the Department of Defense. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Power conversion devices are known in the art. Examples of such power converting devices include devices having a multitude of adapters or couplings that provide a specific power or current to a device having a specific power port orientation. Such devices may take an available power source such as a household 110 volt source and convert that source for use by various devices which require differing voltages or power requirements. These types of devices are limited in that they require a large number of differing adapters or connectors to mate with differing devices. Additionally such devices only convert to a specific level dictated by the configuration of the adapter. There is therefore a need in the art for a device that allows for adjusting the conversion to various values.

Additionally prior art devices for providing a control or regulation of power devices may include a simple control loop in a microcontroller in which the software acts as a simple loop. The loop may call different subroutines each of which manages a portion of the hardware or software of the device. Such simple control loops do not provide the ability for advanced control functions such as the prioritization and regulation of various devices that may be coupled to the management device. There is therefore a need in the art for an improved power management device that has an advanced capability and includes an operating system and programs that actively control a power usage.

In one aspect there is disclosed a power management device that includes a housing at least one input port and at least one output port. Also included is a CPU and a user interface. Electrical circuitry connects the ports CPU and user interface. The CPU includes a real time operating system and programs actively controlling a power usage.

In another aspect there is disclosed a power management device that includes a housing at least one input port and at least one output port. Also included is a CPU and a user interface. Electrical circuitry connects the ports CPU and user interface. The power management device automatically adjusts to accept power from one or more sources in a manner appropriate for that source and supplies power to a load in a manner appropriate for the load.

In another aspect there is disclosed a power management device that includes a housing at least one input port and at least one output port. Also included is a CPU and a user interface. Electrical circuitry connects the ports CPU and user interface. The CPU includes programs automatically prioritizing the power characteristics of devices connected to the input and output ports.

Referring to and there are shown various embodiments of a power management device . The power management device includes a housing and at least one input port and at least one output port . The power management device also includes a central processing unit CPU and a user interface . Electrical circuitry connects the input and output ports CPU and user interface . The CPU includes a real time operating system and programs actively controlling a power usage.

In one aspect and as shown in the figures the power management device includes a plurality of input and output ports . The various ports depicted in the figures may be one way for use both as an input or as an output or may be bidirectional allowing passage of an electrical current in either direction. The at least one input port is adapted to connect to a power source . Various power sources or connected devices may include AC power sources various batteries fuel cells solar cells engine driven generators or other power sources. The at least one input port may be connected to a buck boost device for converting the power source to a desired value. The buck boost device may be coupled to a bus member as best shown in .

The at least one output port is adapted to connect to a power consuming device. The at least one output port may be connected to a buck converter to allow for various output voltages to any of a number of connected devices.

Various of the ports may be bidirectional ports as described above. The bidirectional ports allow for transmission of a power from a device connected to the bidirectional port to the bus member . Additionally the bidirectional port may act as an output wherein a device requiring a current is coupled to the bus member . In one aspect and as shown in the electrical circuitry includes communication paths for linking any of the input or output ports CPU user interface and devices that are connected to the ports. As shown in by the dashed lines any of the devices connected to the various ports may be linked via data paths to the CPU to allow for the adjustment of various parameters as will be described in more detail below. While in the depicted embodiment data paths exist only for a portion of the ports it should be realized that data paths on any or all of the devices connected through the various ports may be included. Additionally the data paths may connect the various hardware components including the buck boost and buck converters to the CPU to provide for control of the various power levels and currents provided to the system bus .

As stated above the power management device includes a user interface . The user interface may be selected from various types of interfaces including aural tactile or optical interfaces. For example voice activated or touch screens as well as various displays or lights may be used. Additionally any remote interface may also be utilized. In one aspect the user interface is a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface may be operated by programs associated with the real time operating system of the CPU and include a library driven menu. Additionally the user interface may include a toggle or input member that may be utilized to adjust a set of desired parameters. In the depicted embodiments shown in it can be seen that the toggle may be in various forms. As shown in the toggle may include four arrow keys allowing movement of a cursor and a central select or enter button. The embodiment disclosed in shows a set of three buttons to allow a user to select and adjust any of the various parameters. It should be realized that any user interface device such as touch screens touch pads buttons or various other toggles outlined above may be utilized by the power management device .

As outlined above the power management device includes a CPU having a real time operating system and programs actively controlling a power usage. Referring to there is shown a schematic representation of one embodiment of a real time operating system and programs associated with the CPU. As can be seen in the figure the CPU includes a real time operating system platform. The real time operating system is a multitasking operating system intended for real time applications. A real time operating system utilizes specialized scheduling algorithms to provide the system to switch between various pieces of code or between tasks based on a timer or priority event. Such an operating system introduces the possibility of managing multiple tasks running at the same time. One such real time operating system includes a preemptive multitasking system such that any piece of task code is separated from another piece of task code to prevent damage of the data of one task from the task code of another. Access to the shared data can be controlled utilizing a synchronization strategy such as message queues semaphores or nonblocking synchronization schemes. In another aspect a real time operating system including microkernels and exokernels may be utilized. A microkernel is an arrangement that allows the operating system kernel to allocate memory and switch the CPU to different threads of execution. The use of a real time operating system allows for the power management device to be easily configured and adjusted for a desired use. For example the programs associated with the real time operating system may be modified or reprogrammed for various tasks.

As shown in the real time operating system includes programs or applications for various functions. For example as shown in one program may include a graphical user interface scan that has a subroutine for the display. Additionally another program for the PID control of the DC converters may be utilized. Additionally programs for scanning the keypad or toggle device may be utilized having a subroutine or subprogram for activating the keypad. Additionally other programs program for the LCD backlighting scanning the ports and detecting short circuits as well as detecting a temperature at various sensors may also be included. It should be realized that the schematic represented in represents only a portion of any number of programs that may be included with the real time operating system .

As stated above the power management device automatically identifies devices that are connected to the ports and automatically adjusts one or more parameters appropriate for the connected device . In this manner various devices may be connected to the power management device wherein the power management device automatically determines the type of device connected and provides a necessary power to that device . Additionally the power management device through the use of the real time operating system and programs can allow a user to select from a desired energy management mode. The energy management modes may be stored in the memory of the CPU or may be custom tailored by a user for customizing devices that may be connected to the power management device .

In one aspect the programs automatically prioritize the power characteristics of devices that are connected to the power management device . The programs running on the real time operating system may also calculate and display a time remaining for the power available based on the prioritized use of the devices that are connected to the power management device .

Referring to there is shown a schematic representation of a power management device with various connected devices having different priorities. In the present depicted example there is an energy source or battery having a limited amount of energy connected to the system bus . A user has inputted that he wants the battery to last a specific number of hours. For the sake of example the battery may have a 4 amp hour life and is only 75 at capacity. The user has entered a specific time to last of 3 hours. Therefore the output of the battery is limited by the programs to 1 amp hour. As can be seen by the various priorities ranging from A to D various devices connected to a port require differing amounts of current. For example the port labeled A may need 0.5 amps from the system bus and as it is rated the highest priority it will receive 0.5 amps from the system bus . Similarly the next highest priority B may require 0.25 amps from the system bus and it also receives 0.25 amps from the bus . Similarly the next highest rated priority C may require 0.2 amps from the system bus and receives 0.2 amps from the system bus . However the lowest priority port port D may require 0.1 amps from the system bus but as there is only 0.05 amps remaining from the limited output of 1 amp port D would only receive 0.05 amps. In this example the assumption was made that the user entered an amount of time that he wanted the energy or battery to last. It should be realized that various other parameters may be adjusted or prioritized by the programs. For example various devices connected to the power management device can be regulated to limit the current they receive based on any number of adjustable parameters. For example various ports can have the same priority or differing priorities. Additionally each priority can be assigned by programs associated with the real time operating system or may be directly inputted by a user of the power management device . Additionally the power management device may determine mutually exclusive activities of the connected devices and adjust a power or current to at least one of the devices . In this manner devices that may not be operable at the same time are regulated by the power management device to prevent current from being delivered to one or more of the devices to preserve an amount of power of a storage device coupled to the power management device through one of the ports.

As stated above various power or energy management modes can be provided by the programs or be entered by a user through the user input interface . Examples of various energy modes include a high energy conservation mode that would limit power or current being transmitted to only the highest priority devices. Additionally various other levels including medium low or no energy conservation modes may be utilized to adjust the prioritization scheme and energy allocation to the various connected devices . Additionally it should be realized that various connected devices may be specified as always receiving current or power. The use of a real time operating system and programs allows for easily tailoring and adjusting the various parameters of the power management device and connected devices to achieve a specific mission or task.

Referring to there is shown one embodiment of a power management device having various devices connected to the ports. As can be seen in the figure a fuel cell is attached to an input port and provides a source of power to the power management device . The power may be regulated by the buck boost device and routed to the system bus . The current from the system bus may be regulated by a buck converter to provide a desired power to any device connected to the output ports . Additionally a SOW or smart battery may be connected to a bidirectional port to receive and store power from the fuel cell or it may deliver power to the system bus when directed by the power management device . A lap top may be connected to the power management device at a bidirectional port and receive a desired power from the bus . Additionally the lap top may communicate with the CPU via a data path . The data path may be wired wireless optical infrared or any other data transmission protocol. The power management device may display various parameters on the user interface . It should be realized that various other devices may be connected to the power management device. Any device requiring a power of from 4 to 30 volts may be connected to the power management device and any power sources or storage devices as previously described above may also be connected to the power management device.

The invention has been described in an illustrative manner. It is to be understood that the terminology which has been used is intended to be in the nature of words of description rather than limitation. Many modifications and variations of the invention are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore within the scope of appended claims the invention may be practiced other than specifically described.

