---

title: Transfer of title through intermediary
abstract: Disclosed are novel tools (including, without limitation, systems, methods and software) to facilitate the sale of items of property and/or for providing title transfer services that ensure that the purchaser of the items of property (real or personal) receives adequate title to the property. In an aspect, the tools can serve as a clearinghouse for the various components to the transaction (e.g., receiving payment from the buyer, confirming that any security interest in the property has been paid off, informing the various parties to the transaction of the transaction's status, etc.).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442884&OS=08442884&RS=08442884
owner: The Western Union Company
number: 08442884
owner_city: Englewood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates to financial transactions in general and more particularly to financial transactions in which title to personal or real property is transferred through the use of an intermediary.

In any sale of property and in particular property in which simple possession does not necessarily imply ownership the purchaser is concerned about obtaining proper title to the purchased property. In the sale of real property this concern is normally addressed through the use of a title insurance company which generally handles the closing transaction for the sale as well as ensuring that the seller passes clean title to the buyer in the sale. In the context of other items of property however use of a title insurance company may be unnecessary and in fact often renders the sale transaction unduly burdensome and expensive.

Nonetheless there are some items of personal property for which the purchaser would like to ensure that the purchaser is receiving clear title in conjunction with the purchase. An example of such item is a vehicle because of the relatively high intrinsic value of vehicles the relatively high probability that a vehicle that will be encumbered with a security interest and the titling requirements of most jurisdictions the implication of which is that merely exchanging possession of the vehicle from seller to purchaser does not necessarily transfer ownership of the vehicle.

In transactions in which the purchaser requires a loan to purchase the vehicle the purchaser s lender e.g. a bank credit union etc. may have an interest in ensuring that the purchaser receives clean title and therefore may impose requirements to that effect on the transaction. On the other hand if the purchaser wishes to pay cash for the vehicle there is no entity involved in the transaction to ensure that the purchaser is receiving clean title as part of the transaction. In many cases the purchaser him or herself may be able to impose requirements upon the seller to ensure that the vehicle is unencumbered prior to paying for the vehicle but many purchasers lack the sophistication to impose such requirements and even if the purchaser does have the requisite sophistication such requirements may be burdensome for both the purchaser and seller and may in fact unnecessarily delay the transaction.

Hence there is a need for tools to facilitate the sale of property including but not limited to items of personal property such as vehicles especially where there is some question about the purchaser receiving clean title to the property. Ideally such tools would enhance rather than detract from the ease and or efficiency of the transaction while ensuring that the purchaser does in fact receive clean title to the property.

Embodiments of the invention provide novel tools including without limitation systems methods and software to facilitate the sale of items of property and or for providing title transfer services that ensure that the purchaser of an item of property real or personal receives adequate title to the item. In an aspect the tools provided by the invention can serve as a clearinghouse for the various components to the transaction e.g. receiving payment from the buyer confirming that any security interest in the property has been paid off informing the various parties to the transaction of the transaction s status etc. . In another aspect the tools provided by the invention can be implemented with relatively low overhead as compared to the use of a title insurance company for example from both an administrative standpoint and a financial standpoint.

Certain embodiments employ a money transfer service to facilitate the transfer of title. Advantageously this provides a convenient and trusted mechanism for the purchaser to provide payment to the seller and or for the seller to provide payment to the holder of any security interest in property e.g. in order to clear the title to the property . Moreover the use of the money transfer service while not required by the invention provides the additional benefit of an established payment network which mitigates the overhead and or fees that must be imposed to pay for the service.

The tools provided by various embodiments of the invention include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Mainly by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might comprise a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods of the invention. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical and or tangible computer readable media such as merely by way of example optical media magnetic media and or the like .

An exemplary method of facilitating the sale of an item may be performed by a title transfer service provider which might be but is not limited to a registered money transfer service provider in a relationship between a seller of an item a security holder that holds a security interest in the item and a purchaser of the item. The item to be sold can be any of a variety of items including without limitation a vehicle an item of personal property a parcel of real property and or the like.

In one embodiment the method includes receiving at a computer an enrollment transaction from the seller. In some cases the enrollment transaction may be received via a web server interface a telephone interface and or the like hence in some embodiments the method may comprise providing one or more such interfaces for communication between the computer and various parties to the transaction e.g. the seller the purchaser and or the security holder . In an aspect the enrollment transaction may comprise a set of data about an amount owing related to the security interest on the item such as for example an identification of the security holder and or an account number associated with the amount owing and or a set of identifying information about the item the seller etc. Based on the enrollment transaction a sale transaction record which is associated with the item may be created e.g. by the computer system .

In some embodiments the method further comprises receiving e.g. at the computer a notification from the seller that a sale of the item is pending and or determining at the computer a payoff amount for the security interest. In some embodiments determining a payoff amount might comprise obtaining from the security holder an estimate of the payoff amount. In other embodiments determining a payoff amount might comprise calculating the payoff amount at the computer. Merely by way of example the computer might obtain from the security holder from the seller etc. an indication of an amount remaining of the amount owing as of a specified date. The computer might then calculate the payoff amount based on the amount remaining a sale closing date which might be provided by the seller and or the purchaser and or an interest rate associated with the security interest. The method may further comprise communicating with the seller regarding the payoff amount.

The notification from the seller may include an indication of an agreed sale price for the item and or the computer may determine whether the payoff amount is greater than sale price. If it is determined that the payoff amount is not greater than sale price the method may include receiving at the computer funds from the purchaser. In some cases an interface such as a web server interface a telephone interface etc. is provided for the purchaser to provide information for the computer to obtain the funds. Hence in an exemplary embodiment receiving the funds might comprise receiving at the computer a money transfer transaction a credit debit cards transaction an electronic fund transfer via an ACH and or a data entry from a representative indicating that funds were received e.g. as cash and or any of the above payment options from the purchaser.

If it is determined that the payoff amount is greater than sale price the method may comprise placing the sale transaction record in a suspended status such that the funds cannot be received from the purchaser until the transaction record has been taken out of the suspended status. The method may then further comprise receiving confirmation that the payoff amount has been reduced to an amount not greater than sales price and or in response removing the suspended status from the sale transaction record. In an aspect a determination that the payoff amount is not greater than sale price may be based on this confirmation.

Upon receiving the funds from the purchaser at least a first portion of the funds may be transferred to the security holder. The method may further include notifying the seller that title to the item should be transferred to the purchaser. This notification might simply comprise the transfer of a second portion of the funds to the seller.

In a particular embodiment the method comprises receiving at the computer a notification from the purchaser about the status of title to property. If the notification indicates that title to the item has been transferred to the purchaser the method may comprise placing the sales transaction record in a closed status. On the other hand if the notification indicates that title to the item has not been transferred to the purchaser the method optionally can include recording a lien on the item holding some or all of the purchaser s payment in escrow and or the like.

Another set of embodiments provides methods of facilitating a sale of a vehicle. Such methods may be performed in a relationship between a seller of the vehicle a lender that holds a security interest in the vehicle and a purchaser of the vehicle. An exemplary method comprises providing a web server interface in communication with a computer the web server interface may be configured to receive communications from the seller and or the purchaser.

The method might further comprise receiving at the computer and via the web server interface an enrollment transaction from the seller. The enrollment transaction comprises in an aspect a set of data about a loan related to the security interest on the vehicle. In another aspect the set of data comprises an identification of the lender and or an account number associated with the loan. Based on the enrollment transaction a sale transaction record associated with the vehicle may be created and or a transaction identifier associated with the sale transaction record may be provided to the seller e.g. via the web server interface.

In some embodiments the method comprises requesting from the lender information about a remaining amount of the loan. The method might further comprise receiving at the computer the information about the remaining amount of the loan. This information can be used for example to determine a payoff amount for the loan.

In an aspect the method comprises receiving at the computer and via the web server interface a notification from the seller that a sale of the vehicle is pending. The notification might comprise the transaction identifier a sale price and or a closing date for the sale. The computer system might determine based on the transaction identifier that the notification pertains to the sale transaction record. Accordingly a loan payoff amount may be calculated at the computer based at least in part on the remaining amount of the loan and the closing date of the sale. This loan payoff amount can be communicated to the seller if desired.

In accordance with one embodiment the method further comprises determining whether the loan payoff amount is greater than the sale price. If so the method might comprise placing the sale transaction record in suspended status until receiving confirmation from the lender that the loan remaining amount is less than the sale price.

The method might comprise receiving at the computer e.g. via the web server interface a request from the purchaser to make a payment. In some cases the request includes the transaction identifier. Based on this transaction identifier it can be determined that the request pertains to the sale transaction record. If the sale transaction record is not in suspended status the method might include providing e.g. through the web server interface and or any other appropriate interface a facility for the purchaser to initiate a money transfer transaction through a money transfer service which might be provided by the title transfer service itself to provide funds for the sale of the vehicle.

Once the funds are received at the computer a first portion of the funds may be transferred to the lender and a second portion of the funds are transferred to the seller. The method then might further comprise notifying the seller that title to the vehicle should be transferred to the purchaser. Upon receiving a notification from the purchaser about a status of title to the vehicle a lien might be recorded on the vehicle if the notification from the purchaser indicates that the title to the vehicle has not been transferred.

While various aspects of the invention have been summarized above certain exemplary embodiments of the invention are described in further detail below. It should be noted that the embodiments discussed herein are intended only to be exemplary and are provided for illustrative purposes and that they are not intended nor should they be interpreted to be exhaustive or limiting descriptions of the invention. While various embodiments are described herein one skilled in the art should appreciate that various components processes and or features described with respect to one embodiment easily can be incorporated within other embodiments. Similarly while various alternatives and or optional components processes and or features may be described it should be understood that the invention can in various embodiments omit and or substitute components processes and or features as appropriate.

Embodiments of the invention are designed to be implemented by a title transfer service to facilitate the sale of an item and or the transfer of title to that item. As used herein the term title transfer service or title transfer service provider means any entity and or facility that operates to facilitate the transfer of title in accordance with embodiments of the invention described herein. Such entities and or facilities can include without limitation personal and or commercial money transfer providers which in some cases may be licensed by and or registered with one or more governmental authorities as a money transfer service bill payment service providers financial institutions classified advertising providers online auction sites and or the like.

Embodiments of the invention can be used facilitate the sale and or transfer of title of many different types of property including without limitation real property and or various items of personal property such as vehicles securities intellectual property rights software licenses jewelry and or the like including without limitation any type of assets against which a creditor might file and or record a lien financing statement e.g. a UCC 1 statement and or the like . As used herein the term item refers to any such property unless indicated otherwise. Advantageously particular embodiments of the invention can be used to facilitate the sale of items to which title is encumbered in some fashion by a security interest e.g. by a security interest arising out of a loan by a lien and or the like . In an aspect the tools of the invention allow the purchaser of an item to ensure that the purchaser is receiving clean title to the item from the seller of the item.

In particular embodiments of the invention can allow this process to be performed relatively efficiently and or inexpensively without the need to involve a title insurance company a bank and or like to accomplish the transaction. Hence tools provided by certain embodiments can be particularly helpful for purchasers who wish to pay cash as opposed to requiring a loan to purchase an item because the purchaser need not involve any third parties which would otherwise be unnecessary to the transaction simply to ensure that the purchaser is receiving clear title to the item. Likewise the tools provided by various embodiments benefit the seller as well because they provide the assurance desired by the purchaser without requiring the seller to engage in burdensome procedures merely to confirm to the purchaser that clear title will be transferred in the sales transaction.

The title transfer service comprises and or operates a computer system examples of which are described in more detail by that stores information about various sale transactions and or transactions in which title to an item is transferred . In some cases the computer system serves as and or is in communication with a host computer system that is capable of processing financial transactions such as money transfer transactions transactions through an automated clearinghouse ACH card transactions including without limitation credit card transactions debit card transactions prepaid card transactions and or stored value card transactions and or the like. Such transactions may be accommodated online over the telephone via a representative at a kiosk from a mobile device etc. One skilled in the art will appreciate based on the disclosure here that a variety of configurations are possible. Merely by way of example in some embodiments a computer system might comprise one or more mainframe computers minicomputers server computers and or the like. described below illustrate various exemplary arrangements that can be used for the computer system and other computers in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

The computer system generally will include or more interfaces for communication with the other parties to the transaction. Merely by way of example the computer system might comprise and or be in communication with a web server that provides a web server interface i.e. an interface with other computers via HTTP and or other web protocols to serve web pages for communicating with the seller purchaser and or lienholder . Thus for example the web server interface might provide a web page to allow the seller of an item to provide information regarding the transaction to the computer system to inform the seller of the status of the transaction etc. The computer system might also include other computer interfaces such as an email interface to communicate with various parties to the transaction and or one or more interfaces to communicate with the lienholder and or a computer operated by the lienholder such as a database connection an extensible markup language XML web service and or simple object access protocol SOAP interface an application programming interface API and or the like. There are a variety of such computer interfaces known in the art and any of such interfaces may be used in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

Alternatively and or additionally the computer system might include a telephone interface which might include a voice recognition unit VRU and or might be configured to process dual tone multi frequency DTMF tones etc. to provide communication between the computer system and the seller purchaser and or lienholder . In other embodiments an employee and or representative of the title transfer service might serve as an interface between various parties to the transaction and the computer system e.g. by taking information from the seller purchaser and or lienholder in person by telephone etc. and inputting that information into the computer system via a client computer terminal point of sale device etc. . Other interfaces are possible as well.

As part of the enrollment transaction the seller provides data about the transaction including without limitation an identification of the item to be sold an identification of the seller and or the like. If the item to be sold in the transaction is encumbered with a security interest the enrollment transaction might comprise a set of data about the security interest. Merely by way of example if the item is a vehicle that is subject to a security interest arising out of a loan on the vehicle a set of data about the loan might comprise an identification of the lender that holds the security interest an amount of the loan and or an account number at the lender associated with the loan. In some cases the enrollment transaction might include obtaining from the seller any required consents such as a consent to place a lien on the item if the seller does not transfer title pursuant to the transaction a consent to hold some or all of the seller s proceeds in escrow pending transfer of the title and or the like.

In response to receiving the enrollment transaction the computer system creates a sale transaction record associated with the item to be sold block . The sale transaction record is used by the computer system to track and or control the sale transaction as described in further detail below and may be stored in a database maintained by and or in communication with the computer system. In an aspect the sale transaction record might have associated therewith a transaction identifier which can be any set of data such as a string of characters etc. that uniquely identifies the sales transaction record within the computer system and thus can be used by various parties to reference that particular sale transaction record. As used in this context the terms unique and uniquely should not be interpreted to mean that the transaction identifier itself necessarily must be unique within the computer system although that is possible as well. Rather in some cases the transaction identifier might be reused e.g. after some period of time. Hence in an aspect the transaction identifier might be universally unique as an identifier within the computer system only when coupled with additional information such as an identifier of one of the parties to the transaction a date range and or the like. 

This transaction identifier may be provided to the seller block at the time or shortly after the enrollment transaction is processed. Merely by way of example if the seller fills out a web form to provide information for the enrollment transaction the transaction may be processed upon the seller posting the web form to the computer system and or a web server in communication therewith and the transaction identifier might be provided as part of a transaction confirmation web page and or through some other form of message such as an email message a text message an SMS message a telephone message etc. . Alternatively and or additionally the transaction identifier might be provided via a telephone interface and or might be provided to a representative to relay to the seller perhaps based on the mode of communication used for the enrollment transaction.

If the item is encumbered with a security interest the method might comprise requesting from the lienholder information about an amount remaining of the security interest e.g. if the security interest secures and or is related to a loan held by a lender the method might comprise requesting a remaining amount of the loan from the lender block and or receiving at the computer system the information about the remaining amount block which might include merely by way of example a principal balance an accrued interest balance a payment date a payoff estimate an interest rate and or the like. These communications may be performed for example using and API and or one or more of the interfaces described above.

Upon completion of this initial processing the sale transaction record may be placed in a pending sale notification status or the equivalent block to indicate that the computer system is awaiting notification from the seller or another party that a sale is pending. Merely by way of example in some embodiments the sale transaction record includes a status field that is used to indicate the current status of the transaction at any given point in time and optionally to control the execution of the transaction as described in further detail below. This status field can contain one of several values some of which are described in further detail below and upon completion of the initial processing of the sale transaction record the value of the status field can be set to pending sale notification. 

Upon obtaining agreement on a price the seller also notifies the computer system that a sale is pending. The notification can be made via a web interface messaging interface e.g. email text message SMS voice message etc. telephone interface via a representative and or the like. In some cases the notification includes the sale transaction identifier so that the computer system can identify the sale transaction record to which the notification applies and or some information about the terms of the sale such as the agreed sale price the agreed closing date of the sale and or the like.

Upon receiving the notification block the computer system determines that the notification applies to a particular sale transaction record and if the item to be sold is encumbered determines a payoff amount of the encumbrance block . In some embodiments determining the payoff amount might comprise obtaining the payoff amount or an estimate of the payoff amount from the lienholder. In other embodiments determining the payoff amount might comprise calculating the payoff amount based for example on a remaining amount of the amount owing at a certain date prior to the closing date of the sale transaction for instance the figure obtained at block above a closing date of the sale transaction and or an interest rate on the amount owing. Formulas for such calculations are known to one skilled in the art and require no further elaboration herein. In some embodiments the method further comprises communicating the payoff amount to the seller block e.g. via any of the interfaces described above.

In an aspect of some embodiments the status of the transaction at this point depends on whether the agreed sale price is greater than the payoff value so the method might include determining whether the payoff amount is in fact greater than the sale price block . If the payoff amount is not greater than the sale price perhaps after subtracting any appropriate fees or withholdings it can be assumed that the seller can obtain and therefore convey clear title to the item without any additional funds other than the proceeds of the sale and the transaction can proceed. Optionally the status field in the sale transaction record for that transaction may be set to pending purchaser payment or the equivalent block to indicate that the next step in the transaction will be the payment for the item.

On the other hand if the payoff amount is greater than the agreed sale price it is likely the seller will not be able to obtain and therefore will not have the ability to convey clear title to the item without providing additional funds to the lienholder to pay off the security interest in the item. Accordingly the computer system places the sale transaction record in a suspended status e.g. by setting value of the status field in the record to pending seller payment or the equivalent block to indicate that the sale cannot proceed until the seller has decreased the payoff amount to an amount less than the sale price e.g. by paying down the encumbrance providing additional funds for closing etc. or some alternative arrangement as described below for example has been made to account for the lienholder s interest and allow for the purchaser to obtain clear title to the item. Optionally in a set of embodiments even if the purchaser attempts to pay for the item the computer system will not accept such a payment until the sale transaction record has been taken out of the suspended status in order to protect the purchaser from entering into a transaction in which the purchaser may not be able to receive clear title to the item.

In some cases the computer system may be configured to support alternative arrangements for dealing with a payoff amount. Merely by way of example in some cases the purchaser might provide some or all of the payoff amount e.g. in a situation in which the seller simply wishes to be free of the security interest and is willing to provide title to the purchaser in exchange for the purchaser funding the payoff of the security interest . In other cases the lienholder might be willing to reduce the payoff amount in order to recover some of the payoff amount without having to attempt to repossess the item. In such cases these alternative arrangements can be accommodated by restructuring the transaction based on notifications and or payments from the relevant parties.

After the seller reduces the payoff amount e.g. as described above block the computer system receives a notification that the payoff amount is now less than or equal to the sale price block . This notification might be in some cases a confirmation from the lienholder e.g. via any of the interfaces described above that the seller has reduced the principal of the amount owing. In other cases the computer system receives funds in escrow from the seller perhaps through a payment process similar to that described below to pay off the difference between the payoff amount and the sale price so the computer system might generate the notification itself. Other types of notification are possible as well. In any event once the computer system receives such notification it removes the suspended status from the sale transaction record e.g. by setting the status of the record to pending purchaser payment or the equivalent block .

If the sale transaction record is not in suspended status the computer system is prepared at this point to receive payment from the purchaser block . In some cases one of the interfaces described above can be used by the purchaser to request to make a payment. This request might include the transaction identifier so that the computer system can determine that the payment pertains to a particular sale transaction record e.g . by looking up the transaction identifier in the database to determine which record the payment pertains to. In response perhaps to receiving this request the computer system might be configured to receive the payment.

There are a variety of ways in which payment can be received from the purchaser or from the seller if for example the seller needs to place funds in escrow to make up for a difference between the payoff amount and the sale price as mentioned above . In an exemplary embodiment the computer system might provide an interface such as a web server interface telephone interface representative location kiosk mobile device interface etc. though which the purchaser or seller as appropriate can initiate a money transfer transaction through a money transfer service which might also be the title transfer service to provide funds for the sale of the item. The nominal recipient of the transfer might be seller the title transfer service etc.

Other payment options might be offered as well. Merely by way of example funds may be received as a wire transfer an electronic funds transfer via an ACH via a card transaction e.g. credit card transaction debit card transaction prepaid card transaction stored value card transaction etc. and or the like. In a set of embodiments the computer system can be configured to process any of a variety of such transactions e.g. by providing a facility such as a web page or interactive telephone session via one of the interfaces described above for the purchaser and or seller to provide the requisite information a routing account number pair a credit card number an amount to charge debit etc. . In yet another embodiment receiving the funds might comprise a representative receiving the funds e.g. via check credit cards cash certified funds money order etc. and making a data entry in the computer system to indicate that the funds were received.

After receiving the funds from the purchaser the computer system distributes the funds appropriately although in some cases the computer system might escrow or hold back some or all of the payment to ensure that the title is transferred . Merely by way of example the computer system might transfer a first portion of the funds to the lienholder block . In an aspect this first potion of the funds corresponds to the payoff amount of the security interest. Similarly the computer system might transfer a second portion of the funds to the seller block . This second portion might correspond to a remainder of the funds after subtracting the payoff amount for the security interest if one exists and or any applicable fees for the title transfer service. By way of example in a particular aspect a fee might be charged for the title transfer service. This fee which might be a flat fee and or might be calculated based on the sale price of the item etc. might be deducted from the proceeds transferred to the seller alternatively the fee might be charged in a different way e.g. as an up front charge at the time of enrollment as a separate fee to be paid after the transaction has closed etc. Further as noted above in some cases some or all of the remainder of the funds might be held back from the seller in escrow until the seller transfers title to the item to the purchaser although as described below there are other possible methods for ensuring that title is transferred.

The transfers of funds to the lienholder and or the seller can be accomplished in a variety of ways including without limitation those described above. In an exemplary embodiment for example the payoff amount might be transferred to the lienholder as a wire transfer while the remainder might be transferred to the seller as a money transfer transaction in which the seller can receive cash at a representative location of a money transfer provider which as noted above might be the title transfer service provider itself .

In some embodiments the computer system is configured to ensure that the seller actually transfers title to the purchaser in completion of the transaction. As noted above one procedure for ensuring the transfer of the title is to hold some or all of the seller s proceeds in escrow pending the transfer. In some cases however this might be undesirable for a variety of reasons. Hence illustrates another method of ensuring that the seller does in fact transfer title to the purchaser. In a set of embodiments the method includes notifying the seller that the purchaser s payment has been received and or accordingly that title to the item should be transferred to the purchaser block . In some embodiments this notification might simply be the transfer to the seller of the seller s portion of the purchaser s payment. In other cases an express notification may be provided e.g. via an email message text message SMS message letter telephone call web page etc. informing the seller that payment for the item has been received and or that the seller should transfer title to the purchaser.

In an ideal case the seller then transfers title to the purchaser block . It should be appreciated that the method of transferring title to the purchaser may vary with the nature of the item being sold and or the jurisdiction in which the item is sold. Merely by way of example in many states transfer of title to a vehicle is accomplished by the seller endorsing the formal title document to the purchaser and providing the document to the purchaser. For other types of property however transferring title might comprise merely transferring possession of the property recording a document with a governmental authority and or the like.

Certain embodiments of the invention provide additional services to facilitate the transfer of title. Merely by way of example the computer system might be configured to facilitate the titling and or registration of the item especially in the cases of vehicles and other registerable items by submitting either electronically and or on paper the appropriate paperwork with the necessary governmental entities. For instance the computer system might be configured to perform a vehicle registration process to register the vehicle in the home state of the purchaser. Necessary funds for this process as well as an appropriate transaction fee may be obtained from the purchaser and or deducted from the proceeds provide to the seller . As another example in the sale of a vehicle some states require the seller to provide documentation to release liability for the vehicle after the vehicle has been sold the computer system might be configured to perform and or facilitate these procedures as well. As yet another example the computer system might be configured to perform and or facilitate a process in which a lien recorded with a governmental entity is released.

In similar fashion the computer may be configured to perform and or facilitate a variety of types of interactions with appropriate governmental entities. Accordingly in one set of embodiments the computer system is provided with logic and or data necessary to determine the nature of any such requirements for identifying a governmental entity that should receive communication regarding the transaction determining a set of requirements for communicating with the governmental entity depending in many cases on the respective jurisdictions of the parties to the transaction and providing for communication with the governmental entity regarding the transaction. In some cases providing for this communication might comprise performing the communication itself. In other cases providing for the communication might comprise providing one or more pre printed and or filled out forms to one or more parties of the transaction along with optionally instructions for sending the forms to the appropriate governmental entity or entities .

At block the computer receives a notification from the purchaser e.g. via any of the interfaces described above about the status of the title to the item. If the notification indicates that the seller has not transferred title to the purchaser the method may comprise recording a lien against the item with an appropriate governmental entity block . Procedures for recording a lien against an item of property generally vary by the type of property and the jurisdiction and will not be described in detail herein but are easily ascertainable by one skilled in the art. In some cases the seller s prior consent might be required to obtain a lien on the property and in such cases the seller might be required to provide such consent for example during the enrollment transaction and or prior to receiving the seller s portion of the purchaser s payment. Once the seller actually transfers title to the item the purchaser might provide an additional notification to the computer system block indicating that the status of the title has changed. Alternatively and or additionally as noted above some or all of the seller s portion of the purchaser s payment might be held in escrow by the title transfer service pending the transfer of title rendering the recordation of a lien unnecessary.

On the other hand if the notification from the purchaser indicates that title to the item has been transferred by the seller the computer system may determine whether a lien against the item was recorded earlier e.g. in response to an earlier notification from the purchaser that the seller had not transferred title to the item and if so undertake the appropriate procedures to release the lien block . As with recording a lien the specific procedures for releasing a lien generally will vary with the type of item and the jurisdiction and are not discussed in detail herein but are within the knowledge of one skilled in the art. Once the lien has been released or if no lien exists the computer system marks the transaction as complete e.g. by updating a status field in the sale transaction record to that effect block and optionally provides notification to the purchaser seller and or lienholder that the transaction has been completed.

While the exemplary methods and have been described with respect to various parties performing certain notifications transactions and the like it should be appreciated that substantial variation is possible within the scope of the invention. Merely by way of example in some cases the purchaser rather than the seller might initially perform an enrollment transaction either as part of a contemplated sale transaction with a known seller or as part of a want ad for a particular item or type of item of property. In such embodiments the transaction identifier might be provided to the purchaser who then could provide it to the seller. Similarly the purchaser might notify seller of the user of the tools of the invention notify the computer system that the sale is pending and or the like. Hence it should be appreciated that many of the interactions described as taking place between the seller and the computer system might in fact take place between the purchaser and the computer system and vice versa as appropriate .

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a telephone interface e.g. a voice response unit VRU a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device and or the like a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. . The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below and or any other devices described herein . In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system and or other code such as one or more application programs e.g. a web server application which can provide a web server interface in accordance with embodiments of the invention . In addition the application programs may comprise computer programs of the invention and or may be designed to implement methods of the invention as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer . A set of these instructions might be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such that the instructions when executed by the computer system perform the procedures of the method s . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. such that the storage medium can be used to program a generic computer with the instructions stored thereon.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

A set of embodiments comprises systems for facilitating title transfers. Merely by way of example illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers which can be used by a purchaser seller lienholder title transfer service representative etc. to communicate in accordance with embodiments of the invention as well as an interface to various server computers and or host computers described herein. The user computers can be general purpose personal computers including merely by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of Microsoft Corp. s Windows and or Apple Corp. s Macintosh operating systems and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. These user computers can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform methods of the invention such as transaction processing applications web browser and or web server applications and or the like. Alternatively the user computers can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or displaying and navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with three user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments of the invention operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN including without limitation an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments of the invention can include one or more server computers one or more of which may serve as a host computer as described above . Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems minicomputer operating systems and or mainframe operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services in furtherance of embodiments of the invention including without limitation performance of methods of the invention and or various operations thereof as well as traditional transaction processing and or banking operations.

Merely by way of example one of the host computers may incorporate and or may be in communication with a web server which can be used merely by way of example to provide a web server interface in accordance with embodiments of the invention e.g. to process requests for web pages and or other electronic documents from user computers and to transmit web pages and or other electronic documents to the user computers as appropriate .

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases which can be used to store sale transaction records as well as perform other transaction processing e.g. ACH transactions credit card transactions money transfer transactions etc. in accordance with embodiments of the invention. The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a host computer . Alternatively and or additionally a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as it can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. In a set of embodiments a database can be used to store information about transactions processed by the host computers and in particular can comprise one or more tables used to store data in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

While the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize based on the disclosure herein that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods of the invention are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while various functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with different embodiments of the invention.

Moreover while the procedures comprised in the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary features the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

