---

title: Method of making sulfur-resistant composite metal membranes
abstract: The invention provides thin, hydrogen-permeable, sulfur-resistant membranes formed from palladium or palladium-alloy coatings on porous, ceramic or metal supports. Also disclosed are methods of making these membranes via sequential electroless plating techniques, wherein the method of making the membrane includes decomposing any organic ligands present on the substrate, reducing the palladium crystallites on the substrate to reduced palladium crystallites, depositing a film of palladium metal on the substrate and then depositing a second, gold film on the palladium film. These two metal films are then annealed at a temperature between about 200° C. and about 1200° C. to form a sulfur-resistant, composite PdAu alloy membrane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08101243&OS=08101243&RS=08101243
owner: Colorado School of Mines
number: 08101243
owner_city: Golden
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070625
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 381 488 filed May 3 2006 which is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 249 387 filed Apr. 3 2003 now abandoned which claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 369 674 filed Apr. 3 2002. This application also claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 805 723 filed Jun. 23 2006. Each of these related applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under grant number DE FG26 03NT41792 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy from the University Coal Research Program grant number DE FG03 93ER14363 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science and grant number W56HZV 06 C 0077 awarded by the U.S. Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to thin hydrogen permeable sulfur resistant membranes formed from palladium or palladium alloy coatings on porous ceramic or metal supports methods of making these membranes and devices that incorporate these membranes.

Inexpensive sources of purified hydrogen are sought after for many industrial chemical production processes and in the production of energy in fuel cell power systems. Similarly inexpensive methods of purifying hydrogen could significantly expand the applicability of hydrocarbon reforming reforming reactors and the water gas shift reaction.

Palladium and its alloys as well as nickel platinum and the metals in Groups III V of the Periodic Table are all permeable to hydrogen. Hydrogen permeable metal membranes made of palladium and its alloys are the most widely studied due to their high hydrogen permeability their chemical compatibility with many hydrocarbon containing gas streams and their theoretically infinite hydrogen selectivity. Hydrogen molecules H present in a steam of mixed gas molecules will dissociate into hydrogen atoms which dissolve into the palladium and diffuse across a palladium metal barrier to recombine into hydrogen molecules and dissociate from the opposite surface of the palladium barrier as a purified hydrogen gas. Thus a gas stream formed in different industrial processes that contains many different molecular components including hydrogen can be directed to a palladium membrane to selectively recover the hydrogen present in the gas thereby producing a purified hydrogen gas stream without significant additional energy input.

Unfortunately pure palladium membranes are themselves expensive when used in such purification processes due to their rapid degeneration and limited life. Atomic hydrogen is so soluble in palladium that it forms a separate hydride phase which has a much larger lattice constant causing swelling warping and cracking of the palladium membrane. This phase transition takes place at the critical temperature of 295 C. making it difficult to avoid premature breakdown during prolonged industrial use. Additionally sources of sulfur present in many industrial process gasses produce hydrogen sulfide when they contact palladium membranes at high temperature. Hydrogen sulfide is a potent poison of the hydrogen dissociation catalysts including palladium metal membranes and exposure to sulfur bearing gasses rapidly lowers the permeability of a palladium membrane to hydrogen requiring the replacement of the relatively expensive membrane structure.

In an attempt to overcome these problems with pure palladium membranes alloys of palladium have been tested that display a comparable hydrogen permeability with superior physical strength and greater resistance to thermal degradation and sulfur poisoning. As early as 1963 McKinley U.S. Pat. No. 3 350 845 formulated alloys of palladium with copper silver and gold and showed that palladium gold alloys containing about 55 weight percent gold had improved resistance to poisoning by sulfur containing gases albeit with about a 10 fold decrease in hydrogen permeability. Alternatively palladium silver membranes and palladium copper membranes containing about 10 weight percent silver and about 40 weight percent copper respectively showed an increased permeability to hydrogen but were equally or more sensitive to sulfur poisoning compared to pure palladium membranes.

The palladium gold membranes disclosed by Mckinley were relatively thick and prepared by conventional metallurgy techniques. Such membranes are still prohibitively expensive for most industrial applications. Therefore there has been a long felt need for a fabrication method capable of inexpensively and efficiently producing palladium alloy membranes having high thermal stability durability and resistance to sulfide poisoning.

Recent research efforts have focused on the development of composite metal membranes consisting of a relatively thin Pd or Pd alloy coatings on hydrogen permeable base metals or on porous ceramic or stainless steel supports.

Many palladium alloys such as PdAg PdAu and PdCUpossess higher hydrogen permeability than pure palladium. In the 1960s McKinley and coworkers U.S. Pat. No. 3 439 474 1969 reported that binary alloys of Pd with Au and Cu had pure hydrogen permeabilities greater than Pd and PdAg were unaffected by thermal cycling and had some resistance to sulfur poisoning by hydrogen sulfide. The inhibition or reduction of the pure hydrogen flux due to exposure to 4 ppm hydrogen sulfide through the 40 mass percent Au alloy was the least compared to pure Pd PdAg and PdCu alloys.

The sulfur resistance of PdCu foil membranes was investigated by researchers at the DOE NETL laboratory B. D. Morreale B. D et al. 241 219 2004 . They reported the best sulfur resistance with a 20 Cu in Pd binary alloy having an FCC crystal structure. But this PdCualloy has only 20 of the hydrogen permeability of pure Pd and about 2 times less than 40 Au.

Thus there is still a need for sulfur resistant composite metal membranes and improved methods of designing and making these membranes.

The present invention provides methods of fabricating a sulfur resistant composite metal membranes including seeding a substrate with palladium crystallites decomposing any organic ligands present on the substrate reducing the palladium crystallites on the substrate to the metallic form depositing a film of palladium metal on the substrate and then depositing a second gold film on the palladium film. These two metal films are then annealed at a temperature between about 200 C. and about 1200 C. to form a sulfur resistant composite PdAu alloy membrane. PdAu alloy layers formed by this method preferably have a thickness between about 2 m and about 10 m and the substrate is preferably a stainless steel support having a porous ZrOcoating that may optionally be sealed so as to render one or more portions of the substrate impermeable to hydrogen gas.

The substrate may be seeded by airbrushing a palladium salt solution onto the surface of the substrate. Preferably a palladium salt solution containing palladium II acetate and chloroform is used for this technique.

The substrate may be fired to eliminate any organic ligands present. The substrate may also be reduced by immersion in a reducing solution such as a solution containing water NHOH and hydrazine.

The first film of palladium metal is deposited on the substrate by electroless plating. In a preferred embodiment a palladium plating bath solution is pumped over the surface of the substrate preferably until a palladium layer having a thickness of between about 1 m and about 7 m is formed. The palladium plating bath may be a solution containing water NHOH HCl Palladium II chloride and hyradzine. Similarly the deposition of a second film of gold is preferably performed by pumping a gold plating bath such as a solution containing water NaOH and gold III chloride over the surface of the substrate and this is continued until a gold layer having a thickness of between about 1 m and about 7 m is formed on the palladium layer.

Further metal layers of palladium gold or other metals such as silver may be formed on the second gold layer. Alternatively palladium and silver layers may be co deposited on the substrate followed by a layer of gold. Alternatively palladium silver and gold layers may be sequentially deposited on the substrate by sequential electroless plating.

The invention also provides a sulfur resistant PdAu composite membranes made by seeding a substrate with palladium crystallites optionally decomposing any organic ligands present on the substrate reducing the palladium crystallites to the metallic form depositing a first film of palladium metal on the substrate depositing a second film of gold on the palladium film and annealing of the metal films to form a composite PdAu alloy membrane.

In the deposition of the metal membranes on the substrate during the fabrication methods of the present invention the depositing steps are preferably conducted in the absence of both organic complexing agents such as EDTA and tin.

The invention also provides hydrogen permeable and sulfur poisoning resistant composite membranes. These composite membranes are composed of a porous substrate having a PdAu alloy layer on at least one surface. The PdAu alloy preferably has a mass percent Au between 5 and 50 mass percent and wherein the PdAu alloy is non homogeneous.

The present invention provides metal alloy membranes having high hydrogen permeability and good resistance to sulphide poisoning. The invention also provides optimal methods to fabricate sulfur resistant high flux composite membranes that can be applied to high temperature hydrogen separations.

One embodiment of the invention provides composite membranes composed of a palladium alloy film supported on a substrate that display higher Hflux from a multicomponent gas mixture containing hydrogen sulfide and other sulphurous constituents than the Hflux for previously reported palladium alloy composite membranes. These membranes are formed on porous supports by electroless plating methods.

The composite membranes include a thin palladium alloy layer on a porous substrate. The porous substrate may be any porous inorganic support including oxide ceramics e.g. alumina titania and zirconia non oxide ceramics e.g. SiC and SiN sintered or porous metals e.g. stainless steel and nickel sintered or porous metals with ceramic surfaces and porous vycor glass. The substrate may be either tubular or planar or any geometry such that the surfaces that bear the Pd alloy film are adequately exposed.

A permeable diffusion barrier separating the substrate from the Pd alloy film is desirable. For example a stainless steel support coated with porous ZrOhaving a pore diameter of about 80 nm has been extensively tested and shown to work well.

Substrates that are symmetric or asymmetric have pores of different sizes or have a gradient of pore sizes may be used. While symmetric substrates are typically less expensive asymmetric substrates have a lower resistance to flow and therefore minimize the pressure drop experienced in the support. Thus given a similar thickness of Pd alloy deposited on the substrate greater fluxes can be achieved with an asymmetric support. A small pore size in the substrate is needed to minimize surface roughness and therefore the corresponding Pd film thickness. Alternatively at pore sizes of 5 nm in diameter or less the adhesion of the film to the substrate is reduced. Good results have been obtained with asymmetric substrates with a pore size gradient that extends over a 20 80 nm diameter pore size range.

Certain surfaces of the substrate may be sealed as desired to prevent Hfrom flowing through those regions of the membrane. Typically a low temperature glaze e.g. potter s glaze is utilized as the sealant because many substrates are subject to damage if exposed to high temperatures.

The hydrogen flux through these Pd alloy membranes is inversely proportional to the thickness of the membrane and therefore thinner Pd alloy membranes are more desirable for their increased rate of hydrogen flux and lower cost for the palladium and alloy metal components. When a support with small pores is used a thinner film may be used and still produce a leak free membrane because it is easier to cap small pores by plugging them with metal. Very thin defect free Pd alloy membranes however are difficult to form and the inherent defects lead to losses in selective permeability of the membrane to hydrogen and more rapid physical deterioration of the membrane requiring more frequent membrane replacement. Thin metal films are sufficient to prevent leaking at low temperatures but when heated the metal crystallites may rearrange opening slightly covered pores in the ceramic support leading to the formation of pores or outright rupture of the palladium alloy membrane and loss of selective hydrogen permeability. Pd alloy membranes having a thickness in the range of between about 1 nm and about 10 nm are preferred as striking a balance between good hydrogen diffusion rates relatively easy defect free production and physical durability. Pd alloy membranes having a thickness in the range of between about 2 nm and about 5 nm are the most preferred.

The weight percent content of the palladium alloy is formulated to maximize hydrogen permeability while achieving resistance to sulfur poisoning and physical durability. With PdCu alloys the hydrogen permeability increases through a maximum around 40 wt. Cu PdCu . This high percentage of Cu significantly reduces membrane cost relative to pure Pd and the PdCualloy exhibits increased resistance to hydrogen sulfide poisoning. Further a PdCumembrane can withstand repeated temperature cycling with less distortion than pure Pd because at 40 wt. Cu the critical temperature for hydride phase formation is below room temperature. Similarly PdAghas a higher hydrogen permeability than pure palladium membranes and an improved resistance to sulfide poisoning. Surprisingly and in contrast to the PdAu membranes disclosed by Mckinley U.S. Pat. No. 3 350 845 PdAu membranes having a lower weight percent Au in the range of PdAuto PdAuhave a higher hydrogen flux than pure palladium and a much greater resistance to sulfide poisoning than comparable PdCu or PdAg membranes. For example a 5 micrometer PdAumembrane shows only a 38 drop in hydrogen flux in the presence of 5 ppm HS compared to a 71 drop for a comparable PdCuand the PdAumembrane had a higher hydrogen flux in the presence of HS than the PdCumembrane in the absence of HS. A PdAumembrane having a thickness of about 2.5 micrometers and formed on a stainless steel substrate with a ZrOcoating has a hydrogen permeability approaching that of pure palladium and a hydrogen nitrogen separation factor of greater than the ideal value of 400 when tested at 400 C. Similarly a PdAumembrane having a thickness of about 3 micrometers and formed on a stainless steel substrate with a ZrOcoating had a hydrogen permeability approaching that of pure palladium and a hydrogen nitrogen separation factor of greater than 10 000 when tested at 400 C. A PdAumembrane formed on a stainless steel substrate with a ZrOcoating exposed to a water gas shift gas mixture 51 H 26 CO 21 HO 2 CO at 400 C. operated at a 76 Hrecovery which is nearly the same as the hydrogen flux seen with exposure to a pure gas flux having a similar Hpartial pressure indicating a hydrogen selectivity with only minor reductions in the presence of a mixed molecular gas feed stream.

This hydrogen selectivity and substantial resistance to sulfide poisoning is believed to result from the fabrication methods of the present invention that produce a PdAu alloy which is not perfectly homogenous on the surface of the substrate. The fabrication methods described below produce a partial PdAu alloy in which Au selectively segregates to the surface of the PdAu film effectively forming pools of Au on the free surface of the PdAu film. For instance the present inventors used Auger electron spectroscopy to show that a PdAualloy at 250 C. actually contained 75 at Au on its 111 surfaces and 80 at Au on its 110 surfaces. Equivalent Medium Approximation EMA was used to accomplish this for a class of Pd X alloys and the model predictions were found to compare favorably with ion scattering experiments. The segregation of Au to the Pd 111 surface is stronger than that of Cu to the same surface. For instance a 20 at Au concentration in the bulk is predicted to give 58 at Au on the surface whereas a 20 at Cu concentration in the bulk is predicted to give 20 at Cu on the surface as well i.e. there is no surface segregation of Cu at these concentrations.

Both Pd and Au form FCC structures throughout the temperature range of 73 C. to 900 C. Mixtures of Au and Pd are still FCC but show a tendency to form ordered arrangements of atoms as the temperature is lowered. Within a single FCC crystal containing both Au and Pd the order can be long range LRO or short range SRO . The LRO is found near Au3Pd AuPd and AuPd3 stoichiometries. As the stoichiometry moves from one of these three regions the LRO starts to deteriorate. At stoichiometries far from these points the structure is FCC with a completely random arrangement of Pd and Au atoms. At intermediate stoichiometries though there is some clumping of the Au and Pd atoms and this is the SRO order mentioned above. Both experimental and ab initio investigations by the present inventors have shown that such SRO exists at stochiometries and temperatures of interest in the commercial operation of the composite metal membranes of the present invention. These data indicate that 20 Au within the bulk results in 80 Au on 111 surfaces. These experimental and computational results indicate that monolayers with roughly this fraction of Au atoms will form SRO structures that are desirable from a functionality standpoint.

Without intending to be bound by any one theory the present inventors believe that this partial segregation phenomenon accounts for the reduced hydrogen permeability of the PdAu composite membranes tested and also to the substantially enhanced resistance to sulfide poisoning seen with the PdAu membranes of the present invention. Sulfide poisoning of membrane surfaces has been found to correlate with the binding energy of sulfur atoms to the atoms at the surface of the metal membranes. Studies by the present inventors have revealed substantial overlap of sulfur p states with the palladium surface d band giving rise to a strong covalent bond between the adsorbate and the surface. This is presumably why the sulfur is so pernicious the sulfur is a very strong site blocker. Comparing the binding energy between the sulfur atoms and the surface atoms of Pd Cu Au Pd Cu alloy and Pd Au alloy membranes Pd Au alloys have the lowest binding energy while Pd metal membranes have the highest binding energy ordered from of Pd Cu Pd Cu alloys Au Pd Au alloys . Density Functional Theory DFT simulation determined that sulfur atoms settled in the FCC sites as expected. The bond length between a sulfur atom and its nearest Pd neighbor was determined to be of 2.442 . Other studies have found a lower value for 25 coverage of sulfur 2.27 DFT and 2.23 2.38 experimental . This trend makes sense since the higher coverage causes sulfur atoms to repel each other reducing the binding energy and extending the bond length. The test was repeated for sulfur binding to a pure Cu sample to show a binding energy of 4.49 eV atom. The DFT binding energy analysis was then performed again with 100 Au coverage on the Pd 111 surface. While this would never be used as a hydrogen separation membrane the analysis was intended to serve as a basis for assessing how low the binding energy of sulfur could go in this Pd Au system. The associated binding energy was determined to be only 2.085 eV less than half of that associated with the Pd S surface. This indicates the potential of the Pd Au alloy to resist sulfide poisoning. The 111 surface was then modified to have a 50 Au coverage. As expected the relaxed system is characterized by Au S bond lengths 2.884 that are greater than their Pd S counterparts 2.437 . Significantly though the average binding energy of sulfur to this alloyed surface is 2.573 eV much closer to that of the pure Au surface than that of the pure Pd. In other words the clusters of Au on the Pd surface have caused a reduction in the sulfur binding energy that is not in proportion to the amount of Au present. This result may be related to the promotional effect of Au in forming vinyl acetate VA in Pd Au alloys.

Au nanoclusters exhibit strong catalytic behavior for a CO oxidation and vinyl acetate synthesis and this has prompted a flurry of research activity. This is germane to the Pd Au membranes since ordered Au atoms on the Pd surface may be thought of as nanoclusters of Au. Particularly relevant to the function of the membrane though is role of Au in influencing the rate of Hadsorption. Au clusters on Pd Pd clusters on Au and Pd overlayers on Au substrates also have potential applications for systems in exhaust cleanup and fuel cells. These efforts form a basis for a consideration of how hydrogen adsorption is influenced by the presence of Au in PdAu membranes. The difference is that Au clusters in the membranes are short ranged ordered atoms within the Pd lattice with either smooth or restructured single crystal surfaces. The studies by the present inventors indicate that the presence of 10 20 weight percent Au actually increases the permeability of hydrogen and this may be due to the nano catalytic properties of Au on the membrane surface.

Nudged elastic band NEB transition state theory was implemented within the DFT analysis to estimate the reaction barrier and adsorption energy of Hon Pd Au surfaces. Only two 111 layers were considered and the bottom layer was held fixed during H adsorption. It was first verified that adsorption to neighboring FCC sites for a pure Au membrane is endothermic 11.67 kcal mol while the same process on pure Pd membrane has a negative adsorption energy 21.92 kcal mol . Significantly though a 50 coverage of Au was found to be exothermically adsorbed H 11.27 kcal mol . This is consistent with experimental data which indicates that H permeability is reduced but not destroyed by the presence of high Au surface coverage. Roughening of the surface so as to allow out of plane clusters of Au atoms will only increase the catalytic effect of the Au.

Molecular dynamics MD simulation tools were employed to study the diffusion of H atoms through Pd Au membranes in order to better understand the role of the Au atoms. Within the MD paradigm atoms are viewed as point masses with forces stipulated among atoms of different species. These forces can include bond order terms and in that case can even allow for chemical reactions. MD was employed to study a single H atom moving through a block of six unit cells of Au Pd and AuPd3 crystals. The simulation times tend to be extremely short on the order of 1 nanosecond and so the lattices were dilated in order to increase the diffusivity. Qualitative conclusions could then be made about how the diffusivity of H is influenced by stoichiometry. It was found that H tends to get trapped in small clusters of Au atoms and that this reduces the overall diffusivity of the metal. This conclusion is consistent with experimental evidence. Typically a single hydrogen atom is allowed to diffuse through a Pd Au crystal. It was observed that the H atom spent nearly all of its time in orbital trajectories between pairs of Au atoms. Long orbital periods were followed by a rapid excursion to a new equivalent orbital site.

The coverage dependent desorption of H from the downstream side of Pd Au membranes was studied using the same approach as for adsorption. In this case it is the energy barrier that is of interest. For example the associated desorption of H was studied using a two layer structure of Pd 111 with a surface composition of PdAu. Two cases were considered 50 and 100 initial coverage of H on the preferred FFC sites. The study indicates that both the desorption and adsorption barriers increase significantly with coverage with the net effect being a slower rate of H desorption at high coverages.

Thus one embodiment of the invention provides a method of making these composite Pd Au alloy membranes. Both planar and tubular Pd Au membranes can be fabricated using the improved sequential electroless plating processes described here. In a preferred embodiment tubular Pd Au membranes are formed on stainless steel supports. PdAu alloy membranes are deposited onto ZrO stainless steel substrates by a sequential electroless plating process. Although other deposition methods may be used electroless plating offers advantages over other deposition techniques because it can deposit uniform films on complex shapes and large substrate areas with sufficient hardness using simple equipment. PdAu alloy membranes are fabricated by sequential plating of first Pd and then Au. The target thickness for the PdAu alloy films is between 2 m and 5 m to maximize the hydrogen permeance.

This method advantageously eliminates tin Sn and carbon impurities in the Pd films which can cause structural instability particularly at high temperature and reduced H Nseparation ratio pure gas permeability ratio . These methods are particularly suited for alloy compositions with 5 50 mass Au which the present inventors have shown to have the highest permeability and best resistance to sulfur. Importantly no organic complexing agent such as EDTA is used in the Pd plating solution to minimize contamination by carbon. When pure gases are used they are preferably nominally 99.999 pure UHP grade . The process includes sequentially depositing Pd and then the alloying metal Au or Cu using electroless plating followed by a high temperature anneal to allow intermetallic diffusion of Pd and the alloying metal.

Initially a substrate is provided. If needed the provided substrate is subjected to a pre processing step in which the substrate is subjected to one or more operations that are needed to place the substrate in condition for plating related operations and or one or more operations that are more readily accomplished prior to plating related operations. If the substrate that is provided is not clean or becomes dirty before a plating operation the substrate must be cleaned to remove any salts or other materials that could interfere with the subsequent plating processes. Typically cleaning is carried out with isopropanol and deionized water but other cleaning procedures that remove the undesirable material or materials are also feasible. Further if the substrate that is provided does not have the appropriate dimensions appropriate sizing operations are undertaken. Typically this involves cutting the substrate but other form or shape altering methods are also feasible. It is also feasible to perform sizing operations at different points in the composite membrane production process.

In these substrate preparation processes the surfaces of the substrate are sealed in places where it is undesirable to have Hflow in the finished membrane. Typically a low temperature glaze e.g. potter s glaze is utilized because many substrates are subject to damage if exposed to high temperatures. For example if the U.S. Filter T1 70 5 nm filter an asymmetric ceramic filter is exposed to temperatures above 600 C. the thin top layer of the filter is subject to damage. Regardless of the sealant utilized the sealant is either painted onto the surface to be sealed or the surface is dipped in sealant. Other methods such as spraying are also feasible. In a preferred embodiment the ends of a tubular substrate are each dipped into the sealant. With the ends sealed and assuming that the Pd alloy film is going to be applied to the outer wall of the substrate Hand other materials that are in a stream that is passing through the tubular substrate are constrained to traveling through the inner wall of the substrate to the outer wall of the substrate and then through the Pd alloy film on the outer wall of the substrate to the appropriate collection on the outside of the tubular composite membrane. Because of the sealant the H2 and other materials are prevented from exiting the substrate via the end walls. It is also feasible to perform sealing operations at a different point in the production process. For instance in the case of a metal substrate sealing by brazing silver soldering or welding are feasible at any point in the production process.

After pre processing of the substrate the surface of the substrate where the Pd alloy film is to be deposited is seeded with Pd crystallites to catalyze the rate of film growth i.e. heterogeneous nucleation as opposed to homogenous nucleation on the substrate and achieve good adhesion of the palladium seeds to the substrate by employing palladium seeds that are smaller than the grains on the surface of the substrate that is being plated. This process can be performed using a variety of methods including impregnation with an organic solution of Pd acetate. In a preferred embodiment the membrane supports are seeded with palladium nanocrystallites by airbrushing a solution of palladium salt onto the surface of the chosen support. In the case of a metal substrate the seeding of the surface with Pd crystallites may be accomplished using an organic Pd solution in which the solvent is a light polar organic solvent such as tetrahydrofuran THF ethyl acetate acetonitrile diethyl ether methyl ethyl keton MEK or acetone. Preferably the solvent is chloroform. The composition of a preferred solution or activation bath for seeding substrates with palladium nanocrystals is shown in Table 1.

The membrane is then fired in air in order to decompose any organic ligand present. Air firing at about 350 C. for about 5 hours is typically sufficient to eliminate the acetate ligand present in the activation bath of Table 1 but one of skill in the art will readily recognize that variations on this time and temperature can be made while still accomplishing the decomposition of organic ligands. The activation process may be performed more than once and is preferably performed twice.

Prior to any plating process the activated membrane is reduced in order to convert the palladium crystallites to the metallic form. This may be accomplished by immersion in a dilute hydrazine solution for 20 minutes at 50 C. but it will be readily recognized that variations on this reduction process are possible while still accomplishing the reduction of the crystallites to the metal form. A preferred hydrazine solution used in reducing the palladium crystallites is provided in Table 2.

After the portion of the surface that is to bear the Pd alloy film has been seeded a Pd film is deposited on the seeded surface. Electroless plating systems such as non flowing plating batch plating and vacuum pump plating may be used to deposit the Pd film. In one embodiment the Pd film is deposited using a flow system with an osmotic pressure gradient. In another embodiment a plating bath is prepared containing palladium chloride and the bath is pumped over the surface of the activated and reduced membrane. A preferred palladium plating bath composition is provided in Table 3.

3 M hydrazine is added to the plating bath shown in Table 3 immediately prior to plating with a volume ratio of 100 parts plating bath to 1 part hydrazine. The ratio of the volume of Pd plating solution to the area to be plated ranges from about 3 cm cmto about 5 cm cm. The bath is then heated to about 50 C. and pumped over the surface of the activated and reduced membrane. The plating cycle continues for a time sufficient to produce the desired thickness of the palladium film. The deposited film is typically in the range of about 1 m to about 7 m thick. A typical plating cycle lasts about 20 minutes to produce a Pd layer having a thickness of about 1 m.

A metal to be alloyed with the palladium layer is then plated on the palladium plated substrate. This metal s may also be applied by electroless plating. The electroless plating may be conducted in the same manner as the plating of the palladium plating operation. In the case of gold plating a preferred gold plating bath is provided in Table 4.

In one embodiment gold plating is performed by flowing the gold plating bath on the film activated side of the membrane while the reducing bath from Table 2 is simultaneously flowed on the support side of the membrane. This is done at 50 C. and plating continues until a uniform film of gold of a desired thickness is formed on the palladium membrane surface.

If another alloy metal is to be added over the first alloy metal layer it is added following the application of the first alloying metal. For example if silver plating is to be conducted in place of the gold layer described above i.e. if a silver layer is to be applied to the palladium layer or if a silver layer is to be placed over the gold layer described above i.e. if a silver layer is to be applied to the gold layer that has been established on the palladium layer with the intent of eventually forming a ternary Pd Au Ag alloy membrane that silver layer is also added using any of the electroless plating methods noted above. A preferred silver plating bath is described in Table 5.

In one embodiment the silver plating bath of Table 5 is used and 0.3 M hydrazine is added to the plating bath immediately prior to plating in a volume ratio of 50 parts plating bath to 1 part hydrazine. The bath is then heated to 40 C. and flowed over the surface of the activated and reduced membrane. This plating cycle is conducted for a time sufficient to produce a sufficiently thick silver layer and typically lasts about 30 minutes.

In one alternative embodiment a Pd Ag alloy membrane may also be produced in one step using the palladium silver plating bath provided in Table 6.

In this embodiment an appropriately activated substrate is used and the plating temperature is typically about 40 C.

One way to achieve Pd and other metal layers of approximately equal thickness is by performing the metal plating operations under substantially the same thermodynamic conditions and for appropriate periods of time. It is also possible to perform the plating operations under different thermodynamic conditions and or over different periods of time and achieve layers of substantially equal thickness. As noted above the maximum hydrogen flux for Pd alloys is achieved with different weight percentages of different metal constituents. Consequently the conditions under which weight percentages are achieved that are at or near the weight percentages for maximum hydrogen flux are typically different than those for the PdAu alloy.

After the Pd and other metal layers have been plated onto the substrate the structure is subjected to an annealing operation sufficient to achieve at least some intermetallic diffusion of the metal s layer into the Pd layer. In one embodiment with a gold and palladium layer annealing is accomplished by slowly heating the structure to a temperature between about 350 C. and about 600 C. depending upon the thickness of the gold and palladium layers in a hydrogen atmosphere. The annealing step permits intermetallic diffusion of the Au layer into the Pd layer forming the alloy. Annealing progress may be observed by measurement of the H2 flux. When the flux reaches a steady state value the annealing process is complete. For thin 1 m films this process will require about 24 hours at the lowest temperature. At this point the PdAu or PdAuAg composite membranes are complete and may be used in hydrogen separation applications that involve streams of hydrocarbons that include sulfur or sulfur compounds.

An optional further step may increase the hydrogen flux of the membrane. Namely the composite membrane may be subjected to air oxidation and reduction to activate the metal surface. This step is believed to roughen the surface of the film thereby increasing the surface area of the film. The increased surface area is believed to provide a greater hydrogen flux. The increased surface is believed to be responsible for the greater hydrogen flux. In one embodiment a short duration 5 to 30 minutes air oxidation at temperatures above 350 C. followed by exposure to Hand subsequent reduction. Rather than air reduction and oxidation the composite membrane can be subjected to O O acids steam SO or a combination of HS steam to disturb the surface of the palladium alloy film.

Additional objects advantages and novel features of this invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following examples thereof which are not intended to be limiting.

In this investigation the Hflux from a water gas shift WGS mixture containing HS was evaluated for PdAu alloys and compared with FCC PdCu alloy composite membranes previously described in the literature F. Roa J. D. Way S. DeVoss G. Alptekin. Proceedings of ICIM 8 Cincinnati Ohio 2004 .

Composite Pd Au alloy membranes were fabricated by sequential deposition from palladium and gold electroless plating baths onto symmetric 0.2 m cut off alumina tubes GTC 200 fabricated by Golden Technologies Company. No EDTA was used in the Pd plating solution to minimize contamination by carbon. When pure gases were used they were nominally 99.999 pure UHP grade .

Prior to palladium plating the surface of the membrane support was first seeded with Pd particles by impregnating the ceramic support with an organic Pd salt solution followed by reduction in aqueous hydrazine solution. Pd and Au electroless plating baths were then used in sequence to deposit films ranging from 5 to 7 microns in thickness.

The membrane to be tested was loaded into a stainless steel module which in turn was mounted in a tube furnace. To avoid embrittlement the membranes were heated under helium and no Hwas introduced until the membrane reached 350 C. Annealing the two metals was achieved during the initial single gas permeability tests. Transmembrane pressure differentials varied from a few bars to as high as 7.7 bars 100 psig while typical operating temperatures varied from 350 C. to 450 C. Permeate pressure was local atmospheric pressure in Golden Colo. 0.8 bar absolute or bara 12 psia .

Scanning electron microscopy SEM was utilized to determine film thickness and surface structure X ray diffraction XRD and energy dispersive X ray spectroscopy EDAX were used to study crystal structure and determine Pd Au alloy composition.

Given the data reported by McKinley U.S. Pat. No. 3 350 845 that PdAu alloys were superior to PdCu in terms of resistance to poisoning by HS several PdAu alloy membranes on porous ceramic supports were made by electroless plating methods. An example is membrane GTC 31 which has an alloy composition of approximately 19 mass Au in Pd as determined by EDAX. The estimated thickness of this membrane from mass gain is 7 m. The ideal H Nselectivity using stainless steel compression fittings and graphite ferrules for this membrane ranged from 1020 at 100 psi to 1320 at 10 psi.

An additional PdAu alumina composite membrane GTC 75 was prepared that was similar to GTC 31. The estimated thickness of GTC 75 is 5 microns from mass gain. From EDAX this membrane had an average Au content of 15 mass .

Permeation studies with a simulated equilibrium mixture from the water gas shift containing 51 H 26 CO 21 HO and 2 CO were performed with PdAu membrane GTC 75 at a total pressure of 72 psia at 400 C. The membrane area for GTC 75 was 10 cm. When mixture experiments with the WGS feed containing 2 CO were repeated with this membrane essentially no inhibition or reduction of the hydrogen flux was observed. Going from a pure Hfeed to the WGS mixture where the hydrogen partial pressure in the feed gas was held constant there was no change in the hydrogen flux. For example the pure Hflux measured for GTC 75 when the feed pressure was 25 psig was 0.22 mol ms.

The total permeate flux as well as the CO and COcompositions in the permeate for membrane GTC 75 for a variety of feed gas mixtures was determined and is shown graphically in . The first feed gas mixture tested was the water gas shift mixture containing 51 hydrogen at 72 psia pressure. The permeate flux was 0.2 mol ms at a hydrogen partial pressure difference of approximately 25 psi. This was essentially the same flux measured for pure hydrogen at a similar temperature and Hpartial pressure. The CO composition in the permeate was 180 ppmv and the average COcomposition was approximately 0.5 . The permeate hydrogen purity was 99.5 .

When 1 ppmv HS was added to the water gas shift mixture there was a 23 reduction in the permeate flow or hydrogen flux. The inhibition or reduction in hydrogen flux due to HS increased to 38 when the HS feed composition was increased to 5 ppmv. The 23 flux reduction for the PdAu membrane with 1 ppm HS is considerably less than the 38 drop in Hflux we previously observed for a PdCualloy composite membrane tested at 350 C. with the same feed composition. Also the H2 flux for GTC 75 without sulfur was almost twice that of the PdCumembrane even though the Hpartial pressure difference was about 20 of the prior case.

A plot showing the stability of the hydrogen flux of membrane GTC 75 is shown in . Noise in the data shown in were caused by difficulties in controlling pressure when steam was present. The stability of the hydrogen flux of membrane GTC 75 was tested for 475 hours or 20 days continuously and ultimately about a 10 reduction in flux from 0.2 to about 0.18 mol ms was observed. When the membrane was removed from the test module after 20 days of testing the surface appeared unchanged from the sulfur exposure and was palladium colored and shiny. An SEM image of the surface of the membrane after testing showed no pores formed on the membrane surface.

Two summarize these results two PdAu composite membranes supported on 0.2 micron porous alumina tubes were fabricated by sequential electroless plating and annealing and tested with pure H a water gas shift mixture and the WGS mixture containing 1 ppmv and 5 ppmv HS. No flux reduction was observed for the WGS mixture compared to a pure Hfeed gas at the same 25 psig partial pressure. A typical pure H2 flux was 0.8 mol ms for a 100 psig Hfeed gas pressure at about 400 C. A 23 and 38 decrease in the flux for the gas mixtures containing 1 ppmv and 5 ppmv sulfur respectively were observed but in both cases the membrane achieved a stable flux for over 100 hours of testing. A 99.5 pure Hstream was produced from the WGS mixture.

The foregoing description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. Furthermore the description is not intended to limit the invention to the form disclosed herein. Consequently variations and modifications commensurate with the above teachings and the skill or knowledge of the relevant art are within the scope of the present invention. The embodiment described hereinabove is further intended to explain the best mode known for practicing the invention and to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention in such or other embodiments and with various modifications required by the particular applications or uses of the present invention. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include alternative embodiments to the extent permitted by the prior art.

