---

title: Multimedia transactional services
abstract: The present invention provides a method and apparatus for providing real-time, two-way transactional capabilities on the Web. Specifically, one embodiment of the present invention discloses a method for enabling object routing, the method comprising the steps of creating a virtual information store containing information entries and attributes associating each of the information entries and the attributes with an object identity, and assigning a unique network address to each of the object identities. A method is also disclosed for enabling service management of the value-added network service, to perform OAM&P functions on the services network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08037158&OS=08037158&RS=08037158
owner: 
number: 08037158
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20071030
---
This application is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 09 792 323 filed Feb. 23 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 340 506 which was a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 296 207 filed Apr. 21 1999 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 212 556 which was a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 08 879 958 filed Jun. 20 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 987 500 which was a divisional of application Ser. No. 08 700 726 filed Aug. 5 1996 now U.S. Pat. No. 5 778 178 which was related to and claimed priority from provisional application No. 60 006 634 filed Nov. 13 1995. This application also claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional application Ser. No. 60 006 634 filed Nov. 13. 1995.

The following are related applications application Ser. No. 09 863 704 filed May 23 2001 and provisional application 60 206 422 filed May 23 2000.

The present invention relates to the area of Internet communications. Specifically the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for configurable value added network switching and object routing.

With the Internet and the World Wide Web the Web evolving rapidly as a viable consumer medium for electronic commerce new on line services are emerging to fill the needs of on line users. An Internet user today can browse on the Web via the use of a Web browser. Web browsers are software interfaces that run on Web clients to allow access to Web servers via a simple user interface. A Web user s capabilities today from a Web browser are however extremely limited. The user can perform one way browse only interactions. Additionally the user has limited deferred transactional capabilities namely electronic mail e mail capabilities. E mail capabilities are referred to as deferred transactions because the consumer s request is not processed until the e mail is received read and the person or system reading the e mail executes the transaction. This transaction is thus not performed in real time.

Under limited circumstances a user may have access to two way services on the Web via Common Gateway Interface CGI applications. CGI is a standard interface for running external programs on a Web server. It allows Web servers to create documents dynamically when the server receives a request from the Web browser. When the Web server receives a request for a document the Web server dynamically executes the appropriate CGI script and transmits the output of the execution back to the requesting Web browser. This interaction can thus be termed a two way transaction. It is a severely limited transaction however because each CGI application is customized for a particular type of application or service.

For example as illustrated in user may access bank s Web server and attempt to perform transactions on checking account and to make a payment on loan account . In order for user to access checking account and loan account on the Web CGI application scripts must be created for each account as illustrated in . The bank thus has to create individual scripts for each of its services to offer users access to these services. User can then interact in a limited fashion with these individual applications. Creating and managing individual CGI scripts for each service is not a viable solution for merchants with a large number of services.

As the Web expands and electronic commerce becomes more desirable the need increases for robust real time bi directional transactional capabilities on the Web. A true real time bi directional transaction would allow a user to connect to a variety of services on the Web and perform real time transactions on those services. For example although user can browse car dealer Web page today the user cannot purchase the car negotiate a car loan or perform other types of real time two way transactions that he can perform with a live salesperson at the car dealership. Ideally user in would be able to access car dealer Web page select specific transactions that he desires to perform such as purchase a car and perform the purchase in real time with two way interaction capabilities. CGI applications provide user with a limited ability for two way interaction with car dealer Web page but due to the lack of interaction and management between the car dealer and the bank he will not be able to obtain a loan and complete the purchase of the car via a CGI application. The ability to complete robust real time two way transactions is thus not truly available on the Web today.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a method and apparatus for providing real time two way transactional capabilities on the Web. Specifically one embodiment of the present invention discloses a configurable value added network switch for enabling real time transactions on the World Wide Web. The configurable value added network switch comprises means for switching to a transactional application in response to a user specification from a World Wide Web application means for transmitting a transaction request from the transactional application and means for processing the transaction request.

According to another aspect of the present invention a method and apparatus for enabling object routing on the World Wide Web is disclosed. The method for enabling object routing comprises the steps of creating a virtual information store containing information entries and attributes associating each of the information entries and the attributes with an object identity and assigning a unique network address to each of the object identities.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description.

The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for configurable value added network switching and object routing and management. Web browser as used in the context of the present specification includes conventional Web browsers such as NCSA Mosaic from NCSA and Netscape Mosaic from Netscape . The present invention is independent of the Web browser being utilized and the user can use any Web browser without modifications to the Web browser. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art however that these specific details need not be used to practice the present invention. In other instances well known structures interfaces and processes have not been shown in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

In general such computer systems as illustrated by comprise a bus for communicating information a processor coupled with the bus for processing information main memory coupled with the bus for storing information and instructions for the processor a read only memory coupled with the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor a display device coupled with the bus for displaying information for a computer user an input device coupled with the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor and a mass storage device such as a magnetic disk and associated disk drive coupled with the bus for storing information and instructions. A data storage medium containing digital information is configured to operate with mass storage device to allow processor access to the digital information on data storage medium via bus .

Processor may be any of a wide variety of general purpose processors or microprocessors such as the Pentium microprocessor manufactured by Intel Corporation or the Motorola 68040 or Power PC brand microprocessor manufactured by manufactured by Motorola Corporation. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art however that other varieties of processors may also be used in a particular computer system. Display device may be a liquid crystal device cathode ray tube CRT or other suitable display device. Mass storage device may be a conventional hard disk drive floppy disk drive CD ROM drive or other magnetic or optical data storage device for reading and writing information stored on a hard disk a floppy disk a CD ROM a magnetic tape or other magnetic or optical data storage medium. Data storage medium may be a hard disk a floppy disk a CD ROM a magnetic tape or other magnetic or optical data storage medium.

In general processor retrieves processing instructions and data from a data storage medium using mass storage device and downloads this information into random access memory for execution. Processor then executes an instruction stream from random access memory or read only memory . Command selections and information input at input device are used to direct the flow of instructions executed by processor . Equivalent input device may also be a pointing device such as a conventional mouse or trackball device. The results of this processing execution are then displayed on display device .

The preferred embodiment of the present invention is implemented as a software module which may be executed on a computer system such as computer system in a conventional manner. Using well known techniques the application software of the preferred embodiment is stored on data storage medium and subsequently loaded into and executed within computer system . Once initiated the software of the preferred embodiment operates in the manner described below.

Network layer enables any pair of systems in the network to communicate with each other. Network layer contains hardware units such as routers that handle routing packet fragmentation and reassembly of packets. Transport layer establishes a reliable communication stream between a pair of systems dealing with errors such as lost packets duplicate packets packet reordering and fragmentation. Session layer offers services above the simple communication stream provided by transport layer . These services include dialog control and chaining. Presentation layer provides a means by which OSI compliant applications can agree on representations for data. Finally application layer includes services such as file transfer access and management services FTAM electronic mail and virtual terminal VT services. Application layer provides a means for application programs to access the OSI environment. As described above the present invention is implemented to function as a routing switch in application layer . Application layer routing creates an open channel for the management and the selective flow of data from remote databases on a network.

A typical user transaction today may involve user walking into a bank or driving up to a teller machine and interacting with a live bank teller or automated teller machine ATM software applications. Alternatively user can perform the same transaction by using a personal computer PC activating application software on his PC to access his bank account and dialing into the bank via a modem line. If user is a Web user however there is no current mechanism for performing a robust real time transaction with the bank as illustrated in . CGI scripts provide only limited two way capabilities as described above. Thus due to this lack of a robust mechanism by which real time Web transactions can be performed the bank is unable to be a true Web merchant namely a merchant capable of providing complete transactional services on the Web.

According to one embodiment of the present invention as illustrated in each merchant that desires to be a Web merchant can provide real time transactional capabilities to users who desire to access the merchants services via the Web. This embodiment includes a service network running on top of a facilities network namely the Internet the Web or e mail networks. For the purposes of this application users are described as utilizing PC s to access the Web via Web server switching sites. Switching is described in more detail below . Users may also utilize other personal devices such as network computers or cellular devices to access the merchants services via appropriate switching sites. These switching sites include non Web network computer sites and cellular provider sites. Five components interact to provide this service network functionality namely an exchange an operator agent a management agent a management manager and a graphical user interface. All five components are described in more detail below.

As illustrated in user accesses Web server . Having accessed Web server user can decide that he desires to perform real time transactions. When Web server receives user s indication that he desires to perform real time transactions the request is handed over to an exchange component. Thus from Web page for example user can select button entitled Transactions and Web server hands user s request over to the exchange component. The button and the title can be replaced by any mechanism that can instruct a Web server to hand over the consumer s request to the exchange component.

Exchange processes the consumer s request and displays an exchange Web page that includes a list of POSvc applications accessible by exchange . A POSvc application is an application that can execute the type of transaction that the user may be interested in performing. The POSvc list is displayed via the graphical user interface component. One embodiment of the present invention supports HyperText Markup Language as the graphical user interface component. Virtual Reality Markup Language and Java are also supported by this embodiment. A variety of other graphical user interface standards can also be utilized to implement the graphical user interface.

An example of a POSvc application list is illustrated in . User can thus select from POSvc applications Bank Car Dealer or Pizzeria . Numerous other POSvc applications can also be included in this selection. If user desires to perform a number of banking transactions and selects the Bank application a Bank POSvc application will be activated and presented to user as illustrated in . For the purposes of illustration exchange in is shown as running on a different computer system Web server from the computer systems of the Web merchants running POSvc applications computer system . Exchange may however also be on the same computer system as one or more of the computer systems of the Web merchants.

Once Bank POSvc application has been activated user will be able to connect to Bank services and utilize the application to perform banking transactions thus accessing data from a host or data repository in the Bank Back Office. The Bank Back Office comprises legacy databases and other data repositories that are utilized by the Bank to store its data. This connection between user and Bank services is managed by exchange . As illustrated in once the connection is made between Bank POSvc application for example and Bank services an operator agent on Web server may be activated to ensure the availability of distributed functions and capabilities.

Each Web merchant may choose the types of services that it would like to offer its clients. In this example if Bank decided to include in their POSvc application access to checking and savings accounts user will be able to perform real time transactions against his checking and savings accounts. Thus if user moves 500 from his checking account into his savings account the transaction will be performed in real time in the same manner the transaction would have been performed by a live teller at the bank or an ATM machine. Therefore unlike his prior access to his account user now has the capability to do more than browse his bank account. The ability to perform these types of robust real time transactions from a Web client is a significant aspect of the present invention.

Bank can also decide to provide other types of services in POSvc application . For example Bank may agree with Car dealership to allow Bank customers to purchase a car from that dealer request a car loan from Bank and have the entire transaction performed on the Web as illustrated in . In this instance the transactions are not merely two way between the user and Bank but three way amongst the consumer Bank and Car dealership. According to one aspect of the present invention this three way transaction can be expanded to n way transactions where n represents a predetermined number of merchants or other service providers who have agreed to cooperate to provide services to users. The present invention therefore allows for any to any communication and transactions on the Web thus facilitating a large flexible variety of robust real time transactions on the Web.

Finally Bank may also decide to provide intra merchant or intra bank services together with the inter merchant services described above. For example if Bank creates a POSvc application for use by the Bank Payroll department Bank may provide its own employees with a means for submitting timecards for payroll processing by the Bank s Human Resources HR Department. An employee selects the Bank HR POSvc application and submits his timecard. The employee s timecard is processed by accessing the employee s payroll information stored in the Bank s Back Office. The transaction is thus processed in real time and the employee receives his paycheck immediately.

As described above exchange and management agent illustrated in together constitute a value added network VAN switch. These two elements may take on different roles as necessary including peer to peer client server or master slave roles. Management manager is illustrated as residing on a separate computer system on the Internet. Management manager can however also reside on the same machine as exchange . Management manager interacts with the operator agent residing on exchange .

VAN switch provides multi protocol object routing depending upon the specific VAN services chosen. This multi protocol object routing is provided via a proprietary protocol TransWeb Management Protocol TMP . TMP incorporates the same security features as the traditional Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP. It also allows for the integration of other traditional security mechanisms including RSA security mechanisms.

One embodiment of the present invention utilizes TMP and distributed on line service information bases DOLSIBs to perform object routing. Alternatively TMP can incorporate s HTTP Java the WinSock API or ORB with DOLSIBs to perform object routing. DOLSIBs are virtual information stores optimized for networking. All information entries and attributes in a DOLSIB virtual information store are associated with a networked object identity. The networked object identity identifies the information entries and attributes in the DOLSIB as individual networked objects and each networked object is assigned an Internet address. The Internet address is assigned based on the IP address of the node at which the networked object resides.

For example in Web server is a node on the Internet with an IP address. All networked object associated with Web server will therefore be assigned an Internet address based on the Web server s IP address. These networked objects thus branch from the node creating a hierarchical tree structure. The Internet address for each networked object in the tree essentially establishes the individual object as an IP reachable or accessible node on the Internet. TMP utilizes this Internet address to uniquely identify and access the object from the DOLSIB. illustrates an example of this hierarchical addressing tree structure.

Each object in the DOLSIB has a name a syntax and an encoding. The name is an administratively assigned object ID specifying an object type. The object type together with the object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of the object. For example if object is information about models of cars then one instance of that object would provide user with information about a specific model of the car while another instance would provide information about a different model of the car. The syntax of an object type defines the abstract data structure corresponding to that object type. Encoding of objects defines how the object is represented by the object type syntax while being transmitted over the network.

As described above exchange and management agent together constitute a VAN switch. illustrates conceptually the layered architecture of VAN switch . Specifically boundary service provides the interfaces between VAN switch the Internet and the Web and multi media end user devices such as PCs televisions or telephones. Boundary service also provides the interface to the on line service provider. A user can connect to a local application namely one accessible via a local VAN switch or be routed or switched to an application accessible via a remote VAN switch.

Switching service is an OSI application layer switch. Switching service thus represents the core of the VAN switch. It performs a number of tasks including the routing of user connections to remote VAN switches described in the paragraph above multiplexing and prioritization of requests and flow control. Switching service also facilitates open systems connectivity with both the Internet a public switched network and private networks including back office networks such as banking networks. Interconnected application layer switches form the application network backbone. These switches are one significant aspect of the present invention.

Management service contains tools such as Information Management Services IMS and application Network Management Services NMS . These tools are used by the end users to manage network resources including VAN switches. Management service also provides applications that perform Operations Administration Maintenance Provisioning OAM P functions. These OAM P functions include security management fault management configuration management performance management and billing management. Providing OAM P functions for applications in this manner is another significant aspect of the present invention.

Finally application service contains application programs that deliver customer services. Application service includes POSvc applications such as Bank POSvc described above and illustrated in . Other examples of VAN services include multi media messaging archival retrieval management directory services data staging conferencing financial services home banking risk management and a variety of other vertical services. Each VAN service is designed to meet a particular set of requirements related to performance reliability maintenance and ability to handle expected traffic volume. Depending on the type of service the characteristics of the network elements will differ. VAN service provides a number of functions including communications services for both management and end users of the network and control for the user over the user s environment.

Thus a configurable value added network switching and object routing method and apparatus is disclosed. These specific arrangements and methods described herein are merely illustrative of the principles of the present invention. Numerous modifications in form and detail may be made by those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention. Although this invention has been shown in relation to a particular preferred embodiment it should not be considered so limited. Rather the present invention is limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

