---

title: Wideband floating wire antenna using a double negative meta-material
abstract: A buoyant cable antenna element is taught that employs a specific double-negative meta-material sheath with a negative permeability. The double-negative meta-material sheath is disposed over the insulated wire portion of the buoyant cable antenna element. The double-negative meta-material sheath enables a deliberate reduction in the antenna wire inductance to a zero value at a desired critical frequency. Reducing the antenna wire inductance to zero creates a traveling wave structure antenna having enhanced bandwidth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07429957&OS=07429957&RS=07429957
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07429957
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070220
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The invention relates to underwater vehicle communications and is directed more particularly to a new form of floating wire also known as a buoyant cable antenna element suitable for underwater vehicle communications.

A buoyant cable antenna consists of a straight insulated wire that is positively buoyant and designed to float to the ocean surface when released by a submerged underwater vessel. The wire may be either a solid or stranded copper conductor of uniform diameter along its length. It is often connected to the underwater vehicle by means of a standard coaxial transmission line at one end. The other end of the wire is terminated either in a shorting cap to connect it to the ocean or an insulating cap to isolate it from the ocean. The choice of cap is determined by the mode of operation that the operator wishes. The buoyant cable antenna is one of a host of submarine antennas currently in use that allow a submarine to perform electromagnetic communications while it is submerged.

Prior art antennas suffer from limited performance in the commercial high frequency HF band of 2 to 30 MHZ. This limited performance is due to the limited band width of the prior art antenna elements. It has become apparent that there is a need for a buoyant cable antenna element that can improve the bandwidth of the antenna in the HF band.

An object of the present invention is therefore to provide an improved buoyant cable antenna element with enhanced performance in the commercial HF band.

This objective is achieved by using a specific double negative meta material sheath with a negative permeability to surround the insulated wire portion of the buoyant cable antenna element. A double negative meta material having a specific permeability is used in order to deliberately reduce the antenna wire inductance to a zero value at a desired critical frequency thereby creating a traveling wave structure antenna having enhanced bandwidth.

The above and other features of the invention including various novel details of construction and combinations of parts will now be more particularly described with reference to the accompanying drawings and pointed out in the claims. It will be understood that the particular assembly embodying the invention is shown by way of illustration only and not as a limitation of the invention. The principles and features of this invention may be employed in various and numerous embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention.

Referring to there is illustrated an exploded view of the present invention. Using the geometry of prior art buoyant cable antennas as a point of departure there is illustrated a coaxial feed line . The coaxial feed line is a standard 50 ohm transmission line however the invention is not limited to use with a 50 ohm transmission lines. At the end of the coaxial feed line the braid is exposed for 3 to 4 inches. This is necessary in order to ground the feed system for the antenna. At the end of the section of exposed braid the center conductor of coaxial feed line is connected to the antenna element . The antenna element is designed to be positively buoyant and to float on the surface of a body of water. The antenna element consist of a straight wire usually a copper or other metal conductor of uniform diameter along its length. The straight wire may be either a solid or stranded copper conductor. The antenna element has a cylindrical sheath of a double negative DNG meta material disposed over a cylindrical sheath of dielectric insulator surrounding the straight wire . The sheath of double negative meta material is a non conducting material whose dielectric constant and relative permeability are both negative numbers over a particular frequency range of interest. Meta materials are a broad class of materials for applications in electromagnetics antennas and radio frequency component design and are well known in the art. At the end of antenna element is a shorting cap . The shorting cap is a solid metallic structure that connects electrically to the center conductor of the antenna element and conforms to the overall diameter of the antenna element .

Referring to there is illustrated a more detailed view of antenna element which consists of a straight wire surrounded by two concentric cylinders of material. The inner cylinder is composed of a conventional dielectric insulating material such as Teflon or polyethylene. The outer cylinder is composed of the double negative meta material the material parameters of which are determined by the frequency range over which the antenna element is to be used. There are no air gaps between the straight wire and the dielectric cylinder or between the dielectric cylinder and meta material cylinder . In a preferred embodiment the meta material is buoyant in water.

In operation the buoyant cable antenna of this invention works by exploiting the negative properties of the meta material cylinder to alter the propagation constant along the straight wire . A transmission line model is a suitable one for predicting the input impedance of a typical floating wire antenna. Applying this approach it can be shown that the per unit length inductance of the straight wire is given by equation 1 as follows 

where R is the sum of the bulk electrical resistance of the straight wire and it radiation resistance both on a per unit length basis. Here j is basic imaginary unit the square root of 1 and is the angular frequency previously defined. Using this formulation a simple transmission line transformation allows the input impedance of the antenna element to be determined given the length of the straight wire and the impedance of the termination cap which can be either shorted or open circuited.

The present invention operates by manipulating the inductance term L of the straight wire . In equation 1 the inductance L is frequency dependent. The last term of equation 1 

In practice a wire 100 feet long made of standard 16 AWG copper was used to demonstrate the increased bandwidth. The inner dielectric enclosing the wire was 0.325 inches in radius and had a dielectric constant of 1.8. The L 0 critical frequency was arbitrarily chosen to be 17 MHz roughly mid band . This frequency dictated the use of a meta material with a of 5.475. The permittivity of the meta material had been arbitrarily chosen to be 2.2. It is of great interest to note that for a frequency of f 7 MHz the input impedances seen with either a short or open circuited tip are almost identical. This indicates that the current leaving the coaxial feed line is attenuated as it travels along the wire to such an extent that there is little current left at the end of the antenna to reflect backwards and create a standing wave. It is also worth noting that the impedance does not change appreciably with increasing frequency.

There is thus provided a buoyant cable antenna that can improve the bandwidth of the antenna in the HF band through the use of a DNG meta material sheath.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials and arrangements of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principles and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

