---

title: Macrophage migration inhibitory factor antagonists and methods of using same
abstract: Methods of inhibiting one or more biological activities of Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) polypeptides are provided using an MIF inhibitory compound. The methods include therapeutic methods for treating cancers and inflammatory diseases.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08999984&OS=08999984&RS=08999984
owner: University of Louisville Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 08999984
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070524
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage Application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application Ser. No. PCT US07 69672 filed May 24 2007 which claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 808679 filed May 26 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This presently disclosed subject matter was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. 5P20RR018733 02 awarded by The National Institutes of Health Centers of Biomedical Research Excellence. Thus the U.S. Government has certain rights in the presently disclosed subject matter.

The presently disclosed subject matter relates to compounds and methods of using the compounds to inhibit biological activities of Macrophage migration inhibitory factor MIF including therapeutic methods for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and cancers.

The acquisition of migratory and invasive properties by tumor cells is a central and often fatal step in neoplastic disease progression. While normal non transformed cells have strict growth factor and adhesive requirements for motility malignant cells have overcome these requirements through multiple mechanisms including gain of function oncogene mutations growth factor receptor overexpression and or constitutive deregulation of extracellular matrix degrading enzymes. Not coincidentally many solid cancers also possess very low oxygen tensions Koong et al. 2000b Buchler et al. 2004 .

Hypoxia can induce Macrophage migration inhibitory factor MIF expression. It has been demonstrated that MIF expression is increased in pre malignant malignant and metastatic tumors. Breast prostate colon brain skin and lung derived tumors have all been shown to contain significantly higher levels of MIF message and protein than their non cancerous cell counterparts. MIF expression closely correlates with tumor aggressiveness and metastatic potential possibly suggesting an important contribution to disease severity by MIF. MIF has been indirectly implicated in tumor growth and progression by stimulating tumor dependent stromal processes such as neovascularization. As well MIF has been implicated in macrophage and lymphocyte activation and survival and may play a role in inflammatory disorder progression.

Thus certain aggressive tumors appear to possess an important functional requirement for MIF in maintaining optimal growth and progression. Further MIF may be important in the progression of inflammatory disorders. MIF can therefore be a desirable target for development of therapeutics for the treatment of cancer. As such there is presently an unmet need for therapeutic molecules that specifically target MIF and modulate one or more biological activities of MIF for the treatment of cancers and inflammatory disorders.

This Summary lists several embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter and in many cases lists variations and permutations of these embodiments. This Summary is merely exemplary of the numerous and varied embodiments. Mention of one or more representative features of a given embodiment is likewise exemplary. Such an embodiment can typically exist with or without the feature s mentioned likewise those features can be applied to other embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter whether listed in this Summary or not. To avoid excessive repetition this Summary does not list or suggest all possible combinations of such features.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides compounds for use in inhibiting a biological activity of a Macrophage inhibitory factor MIF polypeptide by contacting the MIF with the compound. In some embodiments the compounds have a structure of Formula I 

In some embodiments Ris iodo. In a particular embodiment the compound is 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine or an analog or derivative thereof.

In some embodiments the compound forms a stable interaction with at least a methionine at the second N terminal residue Met 2 of the MIF polypeptide. Further in some embodiments the compound forms a stable interaction e.g. a covalent bond with at least a proline at the first N terminal residue Pro 1 of the MIF polypeptide. MIF e.g. SEQ ID NO 1 comprises a homotrimer of monomers A B and C and monomer A can comprise the Met 2 Met A2 to which the compound stably interacts. In some embodiments the compound further forms a stable interaction with one or more of Lys 32 Pro 33 Tyr 36 His 62 Ser 63 Ile 64 Lys 66 Tyr 95 Met 101 Val 106 Trp 108 and Phe 113 of the MIF polypeptide.

As disclosed herein MIF biological activity inhibition can result in indirect inhibition of Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 HIF 1 biological activity through affects on HIF 1 stability. As such in some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a method of inhibiting HIF 1 polypeptide biological activity is provided. The method comprises in some embodiments contacting a MIF polypeptide with a compound disclosed herein having a structure of Formula I which in turn results in inhibition of one or more biological activities of HIF 1 . In some embodiments inhibiting HIF 1 polypeptide activity inhibits transcriptional activity of the HIF 1 polypeptide. Further in some embodiments of the method inhibiting HIF 1 polypeptide activity inhibits angiogenesis radiation resistance or both in a cell expressing the HIF 1 such as for example a hypoxic cancer cell. In some embodiments the MIF polypeptide is contacted with a compound disclosed herein in conjunction with treating the cell with radiation a chemotherapeutic agent or both.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a method of inhibiting or preventing oncogenic activity of a cell is provided. In some embodiments the method comprises contacting a cell with a compound disclosed herein having a structure of Formula I . In some embodiments inhibiting or preventing oncogenic activity comprises inhibiting migration invasion cell survival anchorage independent growth angiogenesis or combinations thereof of the cell. In some embodiments inhibiting or preventing oncogenic activity comprises inhibiting activity of a Rho GTPase family member e.g. Rac1 and or RhoA through inhibition of the MIF polypeptide by the compound. In some embodiments the cell is a cancer cell selected from the group consisting of lung cancer head and neck cancer pancreatic cancer renal cell cancer prostate cancer glioblastoma and mammary adenocarcinoma.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a method of treating or reducing the risk of recurrence of a cancer in a subject is provided. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound disclosed herein having a structure of Formula I . In some embodiments treating the cancer comprises inhibiting migration invasion cell survival anchorage independent growth angiogenesis or combinations thereof of the cancer. Further in some embodiments the compound is administered to the subject in conjunction with treating the cancer with radiation chemotherapy or both. In some embodiments the chemotherapy comprises a hypoxia activated compound such as for example tirapazamine. In some embodiments the cancer is a cancer selected from the group consisting of lung cancer head and neck cancer pancreatic cancer renal cell cancer prostate cancer glioblastoma and mammary adenocarcinoma.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a method of treating an inflammatory disorder in a subject is provided. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of a compound disclosed herein having a structure of Formula I . In some embodiments the inflammatory disorder is selected from the group consisting of atopic dermatitis arthritis proliferative vascular disease acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS cytokine mediated toxicity sepsis septic shock psoriasis interleukin 2 toxicity asthma MIF mediated conditions autoimmune disorders tumor growth or angiogenesis. Further in some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is selected from the group consisting of rheumatoid arthritis insulin dependent diabetes multiple sclerosis graft versus host disease and lupus syndromes.

The presently disclosed subject matter further provides in some embodiments an antisense polynucleotide comprising a nucleotide sequence having binding specificity for SEQ ID NO 2. In some embodiments the antisense polynucleotide is a small interfering RNA siRNA . Further in some embodiments the antisense nucleotide sequence comprises SEQ ID NO 3. Further in some embodiments the antisense nucleotide sequence comprises SEQ ID NO 4. Still further in some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter provides a method of inhibiting expression of a MIF polypeptide in a cell or tissue comprising contacting the cell or tissue with the antisense polynucleotide having binding specificity for a target sequence within MIF e.g. SEQ ID NO 2 .

Accordingly it is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide MIF antagonists and methods of using same. This object is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove and which is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects and advantages will become evident to those of ordinary skill in the art after a study of the following description of the presently disclosed subject matter figures and non limiting examples.

The details of one or more embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter are set forth in the accompanying description below. Other features objects and advantages of the presently disclosed subject matter will be apparent from the description figures and claims. All publications patent applications patents and other references noted herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. Some of the polynucleotide and polypeptide sequences disclosed herein are cross referenced to GENBANK accession numbers. The sequences cross referenced in the GENBANK database are expressly incorporated by reference as are equivalent and related sequences present in GENBANK or other public databases. Also expressly incorporated herein by reference are all annotations present in the GENBANK database associated with the sequences disclosed herein. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control.

Many cancers are highly aggressive and produce invasive malignancies. Pancreatic cancer is exemplary of one type of aggressive and invasive cancer having an overall five year survival rate averaging a dismal 3 5 Garcea et al. 2005 . Not coincidentally these aggressive cancers reportedly possess very low oxygen tensions Koong et al. 2000b Buchler et al. 2004 . Hypoxia can induce Macrophage migration inhibitory factor MIF see expression in cancer cells and MIF plasma levels are elevated in cancer patients. MIF expression is also positively regulated by growth factors extracellular matrix and oncogenic stimuli in both normal and transformed cells Mitchell et al. 1999 Liao et al. 2003 Petrenko et al. 2003 .

MIF is over expressed in a large variety of human neoplasias. Pancreatic breast prostate colon brain skin and lung derived tumors have all been shown to contain significantly higher levels of MIF message and protein than their non cancerous cell counterparts Winner et al. 2007 Meyer Siegler et al. 1998 Bando et al. 2002 Takahashi et al. 1998 Markert et al. 2001 Shimizu et al. 1999 Kamimura et al. 2000 . Several of these studies also report that MIF expression closely correlates with tumor aggressiveness and metastatic potential suggesting an important contribution to cancer severity by MIF del Vecchio et al. 2000 Kamimura et al. 2000 Meyer Siegler et al. 2002 .

As such it can be desirable to attempt to mediate inhibition of these MIF mediated tumor phenotypes with molecules that target MIF and in particular the MIF catalytic active site. For example in a recent report an anti MIF small molecule was found to inhibit prostate cancer cell migration and xenograft tumor growth and vascularity only in cells that express the cognate cell surface receptor of MIF Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 .

The presently disclosed subject matter provides compounds that are newly identified anti MIF antagonists which can modulate MIF biological activities and exhibit both catalytic and biologic inhibitory activities that are 5 10 more potent than previously tested compounds. Thus the presently disclosed subject matter provides compounds and methods of using the compounds for inhibiting biological activities of MIF including therapeutic methods for the treatment of inflammatory diseases and cancers.

MIF is one of the earliest described cytokines and is an immunoregulatory protein with a wide variety of biological activities for reviews see Swope et al. 1999 Metz et al. 1997 and Bucala 1996 . Originally MIF was found to be secreted by activated lymphoid cells to inhibit the random migration of macrophages and to be associated with delayed type hypersensitivity reactions George et al. 1962 Weiser et al. 1981 Bloom et al. 1966 David 1966 . MIF was also shown to enhance macrophage adherence phagocytosis and tumoricidal activity Nathan et al. 1973 Nathan et al. 1971 Churchill et al. 1975 . Unfortunately many of the early MIF studies used mixed culture supernatants that were shown later to contain other cytokines such as IFN and IL 4 that also have macrophage migration inhibitory activity McInnes et al. 1988 Thurman et al. 1985 . The availability of recombinant MIF has allowed for confirmation of these biological activities and for the identification of additional activities.

Recombinant human MIF was originally cloned from a human T cell library Weiser et al. 1989 and was shown to activate blood derived macrophages to kill intracellular parasites and tumor cells in vitro to stimulate IL 1 and TNF expression and to induce nitric oxide synthesis Weiser et al. 1991 Pozzi et al. 1992 Weiser et al. 1992 Cunha et al. 1993 . While the conclusions available from several of these early reports are confounded by the presence of a bioactive mitogenic contaminant in the recombinant MIF preparations used the potent pro inflammatory activities of MIF have been established in other studies that do not suffer from this complicating factor reviewed in Bucala 1996 .

More recent MIF studies have capitalized on the production of recombinant MIF in purified form as well as the development of MIF specific polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to establish the biological role of MIF in a variety of normal homeostatic and pathophysiological settings reviewed in Rice et al. 1998 . Among the insights of these later reports has been the recognition that MIF not only is a cytokine product of the immune system but also is a hormone like product of the endocrine system particularly the pituitary gland. This work has underscored the potent activity of MIF as a counter regulator of the anti inflammatory effects of the glucocorticoids both those endogenously released and those therapeutically administered with the effect that the normal activities of glucocorticoids to limit and suppress the severity of inflammatory responses are inhibited by MIF. The endogenous MIF response is thus seen as a cause or an exacerbative factor in a variety of inflammatory diseases and conditions reviewed in Donnelly et al. 1997 .

MIF is now known to have several other biological functions beyond its well known association with delayed type hypersensitivity reactions. For example as noted above MIF released by macrophages and T cells acts as a pituitary mediator in response to physiological concentrations of glucocorticoids Bucala 1996 . This leads to an overriding effect of glucocorticoid immunosuppressive activity through alterations in TNF IL 1 IL 6 and IL 8 levels. Additional biological activities of MIF include the regulation of stimulated T cells Bacher et al. 1996 the control of IgE synthesis Mikayama et al. 1993 the functional inactivation of the p53 tumor suppressor protein Hudson et al. 1999 the regulation of glucose and carbohydrate metabolism Sakaue et al. 1999 and the attenuation of tumor cell growth and tumor angiogenesis Chesney et al. 1999 Shimizu et al. 1999 .

The present inventors have further determined and as disclosed in detail herein MIF is necessary for Hypoxia Inducible Factor HIF stabilization induced by hypoxia. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory MIF expression by mitogenic and oncogenic pathways may provide a set point for hypoxia induced HIF stabilization and subsequent hypoxic adaptation FIG. . Once stabilized HIF can potentially then dictate the over expression of MIF in hypoxic regions of a developing neoplasm setting up an amplification loop consisting of HIF and MIF.

Consistent with a requirement for MIF in hypoxic adaptation MIF may also play a role in tumor associated angiogenesis. Specifically MIF intratumoral expression strongly correlates with angiogenic growth factor expression tumor vessel density and risk of recurrence after resection Ren et al. 2005 Wilson et al. 2005 Shun et al. 2005 Hira et al. 2005 Chesney et al. 1999 White et al. 2001 . These findings are consistent with a study demonstrating that MIF deficient mice crossed to adenomatous polyposis coli Apc oncomice show significant reductions in both the number and size of adenomas that correspond to greatly diminished tumor microvessel density Wilson et al. 2005 .

MIF shares significant sequence homology 36 identity with D dopachrome tautomerase. This led to the discovery that MIF has enzymatic activity and catalyzes the tautomerization of the non physiological substrates D dopachrome Rosengren et al. 1996 and L dopachrome methyl ester Bendrat et al. 1997. Additionally phenylpyruvic acid and p hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid Rosengren et al. 1997 and 3 4 dihydroxyphenylaminechrome and norepinephrinechrome Matsunaga et al. 1999 are MIF substrates although it is not known if tautomerization of any of these agents comprises a natural function for MIF.

The three dimensional crystal structure of human MIF reveals that the protein exists as a homotrimer See Lolis et al. 1996 and is structurally related to 4 oxalocrotonate tautomerase 5 carboxymethyl 2 hydroxymuconate chorismate mutase and to D dopachrome tautomerase Swope et al. 1998 Sugimoto et al. 1999 . The crystal structure has been reported for the complex formed between human MIF and p hydroxyphenylpyruvic acid Lubetsky et al. 1999 . It was found that the substrate binds to a hydrophobic cavity at the amino terminus and interacts with at least Pro 1 Lys 32 and Ile 64 in one of the subunits and with Tyr 95 and Asn 97 in an adjacent subunit. Similar interactions between murine MIF and E 2 fluoro p hydroxycinnamate have been reported Taylor et al. 1999 . The N terminal proline of MIF Pro 1 appears to be an important residue for enzymatic activity as site directed mutagenesis that substitutes a serine for this proline P1S is devoid of D dopachrome tautomerase activity Bendrat et al. 1997 . Similarly a proline to glycine P1G MIF mutant is also catalytically null for both D dopachrome and HPP tautomerase activities Lubetsky et al. 1999 Swope et al. 1998 .

Despite its activity being first described over 30 years ago a classical membrane bound receptor for MIF has only recently been described Leng et al. 2003 . Through expression cloning and functional analysis it was demonstrated that CD74 is a high affinity binding protein for extracellular MIF Leng et al. 2003 . MIF was shown to bind to the extracellular domain of CD74 a type II transmembrane protein and initiate MIF dependent signaling to ERK MAP kinase prostaglandin E2 PGE production and cell replication. Because the cytosolic portion of CD74 is small and contains no classical signaling or scaffold domains the CD74 MIF complex is thought to relay its activation signal through other cell surface molecules. One such molecule is the tumor associated antigen CD44 that is activated by heterotypic binding of chondroitin sulfated CD74 Naujokas et al. 1993 . A recent report from Shih et al. now describe that CD44 is necessary for MIF CD74 signal transduction Shi et al. 2006 See .

Recent studies demonstrated a function for extracellular MIF in the steady state activation of Rho GTPase family members leading to cell growth and migratory phenotypes Swant et al. 2005 Rendon et al. 2006 . These MIF mediated effects are thought to be linked to CD74 CD44 initiated signaling Summarized in . Further as shown in the present examples MIF inhibitory compounds disclosed herein can block binding of MIF to CD74 thereby inhibiting the proximal signal transduction initiated by extracellular MIF.

Several additional proteins have also been identified by yeast 2 hybrid screening to interact with MIF Jung et al. 2001 Wadgaonkar et al. 2005 Potolicchio et al. 2003 Kleemann et al. 2000 . One of these proteins Jab1 CSN5 has also been shown to physically interact with HIF 1 and pVHL directly Bemis et al. 2004 . Previously MIF was shown to modulate CSN5 function and subsequent CSN5 dependent effects on p27 degradation JNK activation and AP 1 mediated transcription Kleemann et al. 2000 . Interestingly this report found that extracellular MIF modulates the activities of intracellular CSN5. The authors described the binding of extracellular MIF to intracellular CSN5 and presumably after receptor mediated endocytic internalization MIF binds to and inhibits CSN5 dependent functions Kleemann et al. 2000 .

Studies by the present inventors along with colleagues Winner et al. 2007 and studies of others Leng et al. 2003 strongly support the supposition that extracellular MIF can functionally regulate intracellular Jab1 CSN5 functions. Further the data presented in the Examples and in other studies demonstrate that exogenous MIF can rescue HIF destabilization induced by MIF siRNA but small molecule inhibitors can block the effect of extracellular MIF Winner et al. 2007 . Without wishing to be bound by theory because both active site inhibitors of MIF and neutralizing MIF monoclonal antibodies block MIF dependent HIF stabilization while also blocking MIF MIF receptor binding it is possible that this internalization step is relevant to at least some of the inhibitory activities of the presently disclosed MIF inhibitory compounds.

While the following terms are believed to be well understood by one of ordinary skill in the art the following definitions are set forth to facilitate explanation of the presently disclosed subject matter.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood to one of ordinary skill in the art to which the presently disclosed subject matter belongs. Although any methods devices and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the presently disclosed subject matter representative methods devices and materials are now described.

Following long standing patent law convention the terms a an and the refer to one or more when used in this application including the claims. Thus for example reference to a cell includes a plurality of such cells and so forth.

Unless otherwise indicated all numbers expressing quantities of ingredients reaction conditions and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term about . Accordingly unless indicated to the contrary the numerical parameters set forth in this specification and attached claims are approximations that can vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the presently disclosed subject matter.

As used herein the term about when referring to a value or to an amount of mass weight time volume concentration or percentage is meant to encompass variations of in some embodiments 20 in some embodiments 10 in some embodiments 5 in some embodiments 1 in some embodiments 0.5 and in some embodiments 0.1 from the specified amount as such variations are appropriate to perform the disclosed method.

The term biological activity as used herein with reference to a particular biologically active molecules such as a polypeptide e.g. Macrophage migration inhibitory factor MIF or Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 HIF 1 is inclusive of any biological or enzymatic activity by the molecule on another molecule or substrate. For example with reference to MIF biological activity includes but is not limited to inhibition of Th1 lymphocyte responses Abe et al. 2001 166 747 53 transcription regulation e.g. of cyclin D1 expression Liao et al. 2003 278 76 81 Swant et al. 2005 280 23066 72 cell migration promotion cell invasion promotion anchorage independent growth promotion angiogenesis promotion Chesney et al. 1999 5 181 91 Shimizu et al. 1999 264 751 8 Ogawa et al. 2000 12 309 14 White et al. 2001 166 7549 55 White et al. 2003 9 853 60 promotion of HIF 1 expression arachidonic acid metabolism E2F transcription factor regulation Petrenko Moll 2005 17 225 36 Rb inactivation Liao et al. 2003 278 76 81 Swant et al. 2005 280 23066 72 and p53 inhibition Hudson et al. 1999 190 1375 82 Mitchell et al. 2002 99 345 50 . With reference to MIF biological activity is also inclusive of enzymatic activities such as for example tautomerase activity.

The terms cancer and cancer cell are used interchangeably herein and refer generally to a group of diseases characterized by uncontrolled abnormal growth of cells. In some forms of cancer the cancer cells can spread locally or through the bloodstream and lymphatic system to other parts of the body metastatic cancer . Certain intractable forms of cancer have been observed to be very hypoxic and resistant to particular therapies such as for example radiation therapy. As disclosed herein MIF plays a direct or indirect role in facilitating several oncogenic activities including migration invasion cell survival anchorage independent growth hypoxic adaptation and angiogenesis that contribute to cancer cell survival growth and metastases. As such the presently disclosed subject matter provides MIF inhibiting compounds for the treatment of susceptible cancers. For example the therapeutic compounds disclosed herein can be utilized to treat head and neck cancers and pancreatic cancers as these cancers are very hypoxic due to HIF 1 activity. MIF contributes to HIF 1 expression and activity and therefore the MIF inhibitory activities of the therapeutic compounds can inhibit oncogenic activities of these cancers. Renal cell cancer and prostate cancer also depend on HIF 1 activity for oncogenesis and thus MIF inhibitory compounds can inhibit these activities via MIF inhibition. Further lung cancers e.g. lung adenocarcinoma and glioblastomas are both very metastatic and require MIF activities for metastatic behaviors e.g. cell invasion and migration . As such MIF inhibitory compounds can decrease oncogenic and metastatic activity in these cancers. Still further mammary carcinomas require cyclin D1 expression for oncogenic activities and MIF is necessary for efficient cyclin D1 expression see Appendix . Thus MIF inhibitory compounds can inhibit oncogenic and metastatic activities in these cancers as well.

As used herein the term effective amount means a dosage sufficient to provide treatment for the condition or disease state being treated. This can vary depending on the subject the disease and the treatment being effected.

 Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 or HIF 1 is a transcription factor and is important for cell survival in hypoxic conditions including in cancer cells. HIF 1 is composed of the Oand growth factor regulated subunit HIF 1 and the constitutively expressed HIF 1 subunit arylhydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator ARNT both of which belong to the basic helix loop helix bHLH PAS PER ARNT SIM protein family. At present in the human genome three isoforms of the subunit of the transcription factor HIF have been identified HIF 1 HIF 2 also referred to as EPAS 1 MOP2 HLF and HRF and HIF 3. Under normoxic conditions HIF 1 is targeted to ubiquitinylation and is rapidly degraded by the proteasome. However under hypoxic conditions HIF 1 is stabilized in part through interaction with MIF and or MIF regulated CSN5 and translocates to the nucleus where it hetero dimerizes with HIF 1 . The resulting activated HIF 1 drives the transcription of over 60 genes including MIF important for cell adaptation and survival under hypoxia.

The term inflammatory disorder as used herein refers to disorders involving the immune system including disorders characterized by inflammation. Exemplary inflammatory disorders include but are not limited to atopic dermatitis arthritis proliferative vascular disease acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS cytokine mediated toxicity sepsis septic shock psoriasis interleukin 2 toxicity asthma MIF mediated conditions autoimmune disorders tumor growth or angiogenesis. Inflammatory disorder as the term is used herein is inclusive of autoimmune disorders. Exemplary autoimmune disorders include but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis insulin dependent diabetes multiple sclerosis graft versus host disease and lupus syndromes.

The terms inhibitor and antagonist refer to a chemical substance that inhibits that is inactivates or decreases the biological activity of a polypeptide such as for example a MIF polypeptide.

The terms operably linked and operatively linked refer to two nucleic acid sequences that are related physically or functionally. For example a promoter or regulatory DNA sequence is said to be associated with a DNA sequence that encodes an RNA or a polypeptide if the two sequences are operatively linked or situated such that the regulator DNA sequence will affect the expression level of the coding or structural DNA sequence.

The term polynucleotide refers to a polymer of two or more nucleic acids. The term nucleic acid refers to deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides and polymers thereof in either single or double stranded form. Unless specifically limited the term encompasses nucleic acids containing known analogues of natural nucleotides that have similar binding properties as the reference nucleic acid and are metabolized in a manner similar to naturally occurring nucleotides. Unless otherwise indicated a particular nucleic acid sequence also implicitly encompasses conservatively modified variants thereof e.g. degenerate codon substitutions and complementary sequences and as well as the sequence explicitly indicated. Specifically degenerate codon substitutions can be achieved by generating sequences in which the third position of one or more selected or all codons is substituted with mixed base and or deoxyinosine residues Batzer et al. 1991 Nucleic Acid Res 19 5081 Ohtsuka et al. 1985 260 2605 2608 Rossolini et al. 1994 8 91 98 . The terms nucleic acid or nucleic acid sequence can also be used interchangeably with gene open reading frame ORF cDNA and mRNA encoded by a gene.

The terms polypeptide protein and peptide which are used interchangeably herein refer to a polymer of the 20 protein amino acids or amino acid analogs regardless of its size or function. Although protein is often used in reference to relatively large polypeptides and peptide is often used in reference to small polypeptides usage of these terms in the art overlaps and varies. The term polypeptide as used herein refers to peptides polypeptides and proteins unless otherwise noted. The terms protein polypeptide and peptide are used interchangeably herein when referring to a gene product. Thus exemplary polypeptides include gene products naturally occurring proteins homologs orthologs paralogs fragments and other equivalents variants and analogs of the foregoing.

As used herein the term stable interaction with reference to an interaction of one or more amino acid residues of MIF and a compound disclosed herein refers to a chemical interaction between the moieties including but not limited to covalent bonding and non covalent bonding such as Van der Waals interactions electrostatic forces hydrogen bonding or combinations thereof. In particular disclosed herein is the interaction of an inhibitory compound e.g. compounds of Formula I including 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine and any analogs and derivatives thereof with amino acids of MIF such as Met 2 of MIF. Met 2 refers to the second amino acid residue in this case a methionine of a MIF polypeptide e.g. a human MIF SEQ ID NO 1 GenBank Accession No. NP002406 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety as counted from the N terminus of the MIF polypeptide. Likewise certain inhibitory compounds of MIF disclosed herein can stably interact with one or more additional MIF residues such as but not limited to Pro 1 e.g. a covalent interaction Lys 32 Pro 33 and Tyr 36 which refers to the first amino acid a proline the thirty second amino acid a lysine the thirty third amino acid a proline and the thirty sixth amino acid a tyrosine of a human MIF respectively as counted from the MIF N terminus.

Human MIF HPP and MIF inhibitor co crystal structures have identified a substrate binding hydrophobic cavity that lies between two adjacent subunits of the functional MIF homotrimer Lubetsky et al. 1999 Taylor et al. 1999 . Initial attempts to rationally design small compound inhibitors of MIF bioactivity based on this substrate binding site have provided some success although these compounds do not inhibit biological activities of MIF to the extent desired for clinical effectiveness. Senter et al. 2002 Lubetsky et al. 2002 Dios et al. 2002 . Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory the present inventors theorized that the disruption of this substrate binding site by structure based inhibitors can efficiently neutralize MIF binding to its cell surface receptor thereby blocking its receptor initiated signaling . Other studies have targeted the Pro A1 residue found on the side of the hydrophobic pocket. However results disclosed herein suggest that targeting the Met A2 residue that lies at the base of this substrate binding hydrophobic cavity yields superior MIF catalytic and biological inhibitors.

Of the MIF biological antagonists reported thus far Senter et al. 2002 Lubetsky et al. 2002 Dios et al. 2002 ISO 1 S R 3 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 5 dihydro 5 isoxazole acetic acid methyl ester appears to be the most potent Lubetsky et al. 2002 Nicoletti et al. 2005 Al Abed et al. 2005 Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 . Studies reveal that this compound at high concentrations can block MIF dependent malignant phenotypes see Examples and Rendon et al. 2006 Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 . The ability of ISO 1 to inhibit prostate cancer cell invasion tumor volume and angiogenesis requires the presence of the cognate MIF receptor CD74.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides structurally unique MIF inhibitory compounds disclosed in detail hereinbelow that are substantially more potent in blocking MIF dependent enzymatic activity receptor binding HIF 1 stabilization cell migration and anchorage independence than ISO 1 and related compounds see Examples . One unique aspect of the presently disclosed compounds is that a pyrimidine ring is responsible for occupying the active site with the iodo group situated at the Met A2 position at the base of the active site see Examples . The presently disclosed compounds are as effective as siRNA mediated knockdown of MIF and 3 5 more effective than other MIF antagonist compounds in blocking hypoxia induced HIF 1 accumulation and subsequent phenotypes.

As such the presently disclosed subject matter provides compounds that form stable interactions with MIF and can thereby inhibit biological activities of MIF. In some embodiments the compounds can form stable interactions with at least a methionine at the second N terminal residue Met 2 of the MIF polypeptide. In particular embodiments the compounds form stable interactions with a Met 2 of monomer A of the MIF monotrimer. In some embodiments the compounds can further form stable interactions with one or more of Pro 1 Lys 32 Pro 33 Tyr 36 His 62 Ser 63 Ile 64 Lys 66 Tyr 95 Met 101 Val 106 Trp 108 and Phe 113 of the MIF polypeptide. In particular embodiments the compounds form covalent bonds with the Pro 1 of MIF.

A named R e.g. R R and R group will generally have the structure that is recognized in the art as corresponding to a group having that name unless specified otherwise herein. For the purposes of illustration certain representative R groups as set forth herein are defined below. These definitions are intended to supplement and illustrate not preclude the definitions that would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the present disclosure.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to Cinclusive linear i.e. straight chain branched or cyclic saturated or at least partially and in some cases fully unsaturated i.e. alkenyl and alkynyl hydrocarbon chains including for example methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl isobutyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl octyl ethenyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl octenyl butadienyl propynyl methylpropynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl heptynyl and allenyl groups. Branched refers to an alkyl group in which a lower alkyl group such as methyl ethyl or propyl is attached to a linear alkyl chain. Lower alkyl refers to an alkyl group having 1 to about 8 carbon atoms i.e. a Calkyl e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 carbon atoms. Higher alkyl refers to an alkyl group having about 10 to about 20 carbon atoms e.g. 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cstraight chain alkyls. In other embodiments alkyl refers in particular to Cbranched chain alkyls.

Alkyl groups can optionally be substituted a substituted alkyl with one or more alkyl group substituents which can be the same or different. The term alkyl group substituent includes but is not limited to alkyl substituted alkyl aryl halo arylamino acyl hydroxyl aryloxyl alkoxyl alkylthio arylthio aralkyloxyl aralkylthio carboxyl alkoxycarbonyl oxo and cycloalkyl. There can be optionally inserted along the alkyl chain one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms wherein the nitrogen substituent is hydrogen lower alkyl also referred to herein as alkylaminoalkyl or aryl.

Thus as used herein the term substituted alkyl includes alkyl groups as defined herein in which one or more atoms or functional groups of the alkyl group are replaced with another atom or functional group including for example alkyl substituted alkyl halogen aryl substituted aryl alkoxyl hydroxyl forming a hydroxyalkyl e.g. CH OH wherein n is 1 20 nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino sulfate and mercapto.

Further as used herein the terms alkyl and or substituted alkyl include an allyl or an allylic group. The terms allylic group or allyl refer to the group CHHC CHand derivatives thereof formed by substitution. Thus the terms alkyl and or substituted alkyl include allyl groups such as but not limited to allyl methylallyl di methylallyl and the like. The term allylic position or allylic site refers to the saturated carbon atom of an allylic group. Thus a group such as a hydroxyl group or other substituent group attached at an allylic site can be referred to as allylic. 

The term aryl is used herein to refer to an aromatic substituent that can be a single aromatic ring or multiple aromatic rings that are fused together linked covalently or linked to a common group such as but not limited to a methylene or ethylene moiety. The common linking group also can be a carbonyl as in benzophenone or oxygen as in diphenylether or nitrogen as in diphenylamine. The term aryl specifically encompasses heterocyclic aromatic compounds. The aromatic ring s can comprise phenyl naphthyl biphenyl diphenylether diphenylamine and benzophenone among others. In particular embodiments the term aryl means a cyclic aromatic comprising about 5 to about 10 carbon atoms e.g. 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbon atoms and including 5 and 6 membered hydrocarbon and heterocyclic aromatic rings.

The aryl group can be optionally substituted a substituted aryl with one or more aryl group substituents which can be the same or different wherein aryl group substituent includes alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl aralkyl hydroxyl alkoxyl aryloxyl aralkyloxyl carboxyl acyl halo nitro alkoxycarbonyl aryloxycarbonyl aralkoxycarbonyl acyloxyl acylamino aroylamino carbamoyl alkylcarbamoyl dialkylcarbamoyl arylthio alkylthio alkylene and NR R wherein R and R can each be independently hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl substituted aryl and aralkyl.

Thus as used herein the term substituted aryl includes aryl groups as defined herein in which one or more atoms or functional groups of the aryl group are replaced with another atom or functional group including for example alkyl substituted alkyl halogen aryl substituted aryl alkoxyl hydroxyl nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino sulfate and mercapto.

Specific examples of aryl groups include but are not limited to cyclopentadienyl phenyl furan thiophene pyrrole pyran pyridine imidazole benzimidazole isothiazole isoxazole pyrazole pyrazine triazine pyrimidine quinoline isoquinoline indole carbazole and the like.

A dashed line representing a bond in a cyclic ring structure indicates that the bond can be either present or absent in the ring. That is a dashed line representing a bond in a cyclic ring structure indicates that the ring structure is selected from the group consisting of a saturated ring structure a partially saturated ring structure and an unsaturated ring structure.

In some embodiments the compounds described by the presently disclosed subject matter contain a linking group. As used herein the term linking group comprises a chemical moiety such as a furanyl phenylene thienyl and pyrrolyl radical which is bonded to two or more other chemical moieties in particular aryl groups to form a stable structure.

When a named atom of an aromatic ring or a heterocyclic aromatic ring is defined as being absent the named atom is replaced by a direct bond. When the linking group or spacer group is defined as being absent the linking group or spacer group is replaced by a direct bond.

 Alkylene refers to a straight or branched bivalent aliphatic hydrocarbon group having from 1 to about 20 carbon atoms e.g. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 carbon atoms. The alkylene group can be straight branched or cyclic. The alkylene group also can be optionally unsaturated and or substituted with one or more alkyl group substituents. There can be optionally inserted along the alkylene group one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms also referred to herein as alkylaminoalkyl wherein the nitrogen substituent is alkyl as previously described. Exemplary alkylene groups include methylene CH ethylene CH CH propylene CH cyclohexylene CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH CH N R CH wherein each of q and r is independently an integer from 0 to about 20 e.g. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 or 20 and R is hydrogen or lower alkyl methylenedioxyl O CH O and ethylenedioxyl O CH O . An alkylene group can have about 2 to about 3 carbon atoms and can further have 6 20 carbons.

As used herein the term acyl refers to an organic acid group wherein the OH of the carboxyl group has been replaced with another substituent i.e. as represented by RCO wherein R is an alkyl or an aryl group as defined herein . As such the term acyl specifically includes arylacyl groups such as an acetylfuran and a phenacyl group. Specific examples of acyl groups include acetyl and benzoyl.

 Cyclic and cycloalkyl refer to a non aromatic mono or multicyclic ring system of about 3 to about 10 carbon atoms e.g. 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 carbon atoms. The cycloalkyl group can be optionally partially unsaturated. The cycloalkyl group also can be optionally substituted with an alkyl group substituent as defined herein oxo and or alkylene. There can be optionally inserted along the cyclic alkyl chain one or more oxygen sulfur or substituted or unsubstituted nitrogen atoms wherein the nitrogen substituent is hydrogen alkyl substituted alkyl aryl or substituted aryl thus providing a heterocyclic group. Representative monocyclic cycloalkyl rings include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and the like. Further the cycloalkyl group can be optionally substituted with a linking group such as an alkylene group as defined hereinabove for example methylene ethylene propylene and the like. In such cases the cycloalkyl group can be referred to as for example cyclopropylmethyl cyclobutylmethyl and the like. Additionally multicyclic cycloalkyl rings include adamantyl octahydronaphthyl decalin camphor camphane and noradamantyl.

 Alkoxyl or alkoxyalkyl refer to an alkyl O group wherein alkyl is as previously described. The term alkoxyl as used herein can refer to Cinclusive linear branched or cyclic saturated or unsaturated oxo hydrocarbon chains including for example methoxyl ethoxyl propoxyl isopropoxyl butoxyl t butoxyl and pentoxyl.

 Aryloxyl refers to an aryl O group wherein the aryl group is as previously described including a substituted aryl. The term aryloxyl as used herein can refer to phenyloxyl or hexyloxyl and alkyl substituted alkyl halo or alkoxyl substituted phenyloxyl or hexyloxyl.

 Aralkyl refers to an aryl alkyl group wherein aryl and alkyl are as previously described and included substituted aryl and substituted alkyl. Exemplary aralkyl groups include benzyl phenylethyl and naphthylmethyl.

 Aralkyloxyl refers to an aralkyl O group wherein the aralkyl group is as previously described. An exemplary aralkyloxyl group is benzyloxyl.

 Dialkylamino refers to an NRR group wherein each of R and R is independently an alkyl group and or a substituted alkyl group as previously described. Exemplary alkylamino groups include ethylmethylamino dimethylamino and diethylamino.

 Alkoxycarbonyl refers to an alkyl O CO group. Exemplary alkoxycarbonyl groups include methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl butyloxycarbonyl and t butyloxycarbonyl.

 Aryloxycarbonyl refers to an aryl O CO group. Exemplary aryloxycarbonyl groups include phenoxy and naphthoxy carbonyl.

 Aralkoxycarbonyl refers to an aralkyl O CO group. An exemplary aralkoxycarbonyl group is benzyloxycarbonyl.

 Alkylcarbamoyl refers to a R RN CO group wherein one of R and R is hydrogen and the other of R and R is alkyl and or substituted alkyl as previously described.

The term oxo refers to a compound described previously herein wherein a carbon atom is replaced by an oxygen atom.

The term thio refers to a compound described previously herein wherein a carbon or oxygen atom is replaced by a sulfur atom.

When the term independently selected is used the substituents being referred to e.g. R groups such as groups Rand R or groups X and Y can be identical or different. For example both Rand Rcan be substituted alkyls or Rcan be hydrogen and Rcan be a substituted alkyl and the like.

In some particular embodiments the compound that stably interacts with MIF and inhibits MIF biological activities is 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine see or an analog or derivative thereof. Structure based drug design SBDD for example can be used to identify additional MIF inhibitory compounds having a structure of Formula I. The success of SBDD for effective compound development is well documented. It has contributed to the introduction of 50 compounds into clinical trials and to numerous drug approvals Jorgensen 2004 . Virtual screening is one aspect of SBDD and is a computational technique that can prescreen vast databases of small molecule structures against a three dimensional structure to see which fit or dock into the chosen site. This can reduce the actual physical screening for compounds of interest many orders of magnitude. There are a variety of methods available both rigid and flexible docking DOCK Ewing et al. 2001 Autodock Morris et al. 1998 GOLD Jones et al. 1997 Ligandfit Accelrys Ludi Accelrys FlexX Tripos FlexX pharm Tripos FlexE Tripos and Glide Schrodinger and there are a variety of scoring or ranking methods used such as FlexX Rarey et al. 1996 SCORE Ewing et al. 2001 Chemscore Eldridge et al. 1997 Ludi Bohm 1992 and PLP Gehlhaar et al. 1995 GOLD Jones et al. 1997 and Ligandfit Venkatachalam et al. 2003 .

Past efforts at screening for potential MIF inhibitors used the N terminal proline as the central target residue for inhibition. In contrast the presently disclosed subject matter utilizes in some embodiments a virtual screening strategy that focuses on identifying compounds that target methionine at position MET A2 i.e. MIF monomer A position 2 with reference to the human crystal structure of MIF which is made up of A B and C monomers to form a catalytically active trimer . This is a noteworthy distinction over prior efforts as demonstrated by the presently disclosed MIF inhibitory compounds which can be 5 more potent than previously identified MIF inhibitory compounds. The present inventors focused on this active site residue in part because 1 it resides at the base of the hydrophobic binding pocket adjacent to the N terminal proline that actually resides on the side of the pocket Sun et al. 1996 and 2 prior studies have shown that disrupting this hydrophobic substrate binding pocket by insertion of a single amino acid residue adjacent to Met A2 leads to a complete loss of enzymatic and biologic activity Lubetsky et al. 2002 . Thus additional exemplary compounds having a structure of Formula I encompassed by the presently disclosed subject matter and having MIF inhibitory properties can be identified without undue experimentation utilizing the presently disclosed novel screening and testing methods.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides MIF inhibitory compounds as disclosed hereinabove in detail that can target MIF s catalytic active site and act as MIF biologic antagonists which can have inhibitory activity of MIF biological functions multiple times more effective than previously described MIF inhibitors. For example in some embodiments the presently disclosed MIF inhibitory compounds can inhibit hypoxia induced HIF 1 stabilization at concentrations 5 lower than those needed by other MIF inhibitory compounds. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory of operation the presently disclosed MIF inhibitory compounds appear to exhibit potencies that correlate closely with their ability to block binding of MIF to its cell surface receptor. Thus and again without wishing to be bound by theory biologic inhibitory activities of the presently disclosed MIF antagonists appear to depend at least in part on their ability to prevent binding of MIF to its cell surface receptor CD74.

As such the presently disclosed subject matter provides methods of inhibiting a biological activity of a MIF polypeptide comprising contacting the MIF polypeptide with a MIF inhibitory compound disclosed herein. Exemplary biological activities of MIF that can be inhibited by the presently disclosed compounds include inhibition of Th1 lymphocyte transcription regulation e.g. of cyclin D1 expression cell migration promotion cell invasion promotion anchorage independent growth promotion angiogenesis promotion promotion of HIF 1 stabilization arachidonic acid metabolism E2F transcription factor regulation Rb inactivation and p53 inhibition.

Further as disclosed herein MIF biological activity inhibition can result in indirect inhibition of Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1a HIF 1 biological activity. As such in some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a method of inhibiting HIF 1 polypeptide biological activity is provided. The method comprises in some embodiments contacting a MIF polypeptide with a MIF inhibitory compound disclosed herein which in turn results in inhibition of one or more biological activities of HIF 1 . In some embodiments inhibiting HIF 1 polypeptide activity inhibits transcriptional activity of the HIF 1 polypeptide. Further in some embodiments of the method inhibiting HIF 1 polypeptide activity inhibits angiogenesis radiation resistance or both in a cell expressing the HIF 1 such as for example a hypoxic cancer cell. In some embodiments the MIF polypeptide is contacted with a compound disclosed herein in conjunction with treating the cell with radiation a chemotherapeutic agent or both.

The identification of more biologically active drugs targeting MIF for example MIF receptor binding may represent a novel therapeutic approach for inhibiting oncogenic activities of cancer cells and treating cancer that acts at least in part by inhibiting hypoxic adaptation. Related thereto therapeutic methods are provided by the presently disclosed subject matter utilizing the MIF inhibitory compounds disclosed herein. Therapeutic methods disclosed herein include methods of inhibiting or preventing oncogenic activity of a cell treating a cancer and reducing the risk of recurrence of a cancer. Further the MIF inhibitory compounds disclosed herein can inhibit MIF biological activities related to immune and inflammatory system functioning. Therefore the present MIF inhibitory compounds can further be utilized to treat inflammatory and autoimmune disorders.

In some embodiments the therapeutic methods include methods of inhibiting or preventing oncogenic activity of a cell. The methods comprise contacting a cell with an MIF inhibitory compound disclosed herein e.g. a compound of Formula I . In some embodiments the cell is a cancer cell selected from the group consisting of lung cancer head and neck cancer pancreatic cancer renal cell cancer prostate cancer glioblastoma and mammary adenocarcinoma.

Inhibiting or preventing oncogenic activity can comprise inhibiting migration invasion cell survival anchorage independent growth angiogenesis or combinations thereof of the cell. A critical group of effectors downstream of mutated oncogenes or constitutively active growth factor receptors is the family of Rho GTPase enzymes. As illustrated in MIF plays a role in Rho family oncogenic activities. Of the three main family members Rac Rho and Cdc42 Rac is arguably the most important in promoting and maintaining an invasive phenotype. For example in addition to promoting actin cytoskeletal reorganization Rac is also necessary for non small cell lung cancer matrix metalloprotease expression and subsequent invasive behavior. Thus in some embodiments inhibiting or preventing oncogenic activity comprises inhibiting activity of a Rho GTPase family member e.g. Rac1 and or RhoA through inhibition of the MIF polypeptide by the compound.

In some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a method of treating or reducing the risk of recurrence of a cancer in a subject is provided. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of a MIF inhibitory compound disclosed herein. In some embodiments treating the cancer comprises inhibiting migration invasion cell survival anchorage independent growth angiogenesis or combinations thereof of the cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is a cancer selected from the group consisting of lung cancer head and neck cancer pancreatic cancer renal cell cancer prostate cancer glioblastoma and mammary adenocarcinoma.

In some embodiments of the cancer treatment methods the compound is administered to the subject in conjunction with treating the cancer with radiation chemotherapy or both. For example in some embodiments the chemotherapy utilized in conjunction with administration of MIF antagonists disclosed herein can comprise a hypoxia activated chemotherapeutic compound. Hypoxia activated compounds are small molecule compounds activated to a toxic radical form only under hypoxic conditions. Such low oxygen levels are common in solid tumors as previously disclosed herein. Thus hypoxia activated compounds are activated to their toxic forms preferentially in the hypoxic areas of solid tumors. One non limiting example of a hypoxia activated chemotherapeutic compound that can be administered in combination with a MIF antagonist disclosed herein is tirapazamine 3 amino 1 2 4 benzotriazine 1 4 dioxide . See e.g. Zeman et al. 1986 12 7 1239 42 and Gandara et al. 2002 29 1 Suppl 4 102 9 for a further description of tirapazamine and hypoxia activated compounds as cancer therapeutics in general.

As noted MIF biological activities also include immune function regulation and MIF plays a role in many inflammatory disorders. As such in some embodiments of the presently disclosed subject matter a method of treating an inflammatory disorder in a subject is provided. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of a MIF inhibitory compound disclosed herein. In some embodiments the inflammatory disorder is selected from the group consisting of atopic dermatitis arthritis proliferative vascular disease acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS cytokine mediated toxicity sepsis septic shock psoriasis interleukin 2 toxicity asthma MIF mediated conditions autoimmune disorders tumor growth or angiogenesis. Further in some embodiments the autoimmune disorder is selected from the group consisting of rheumatoid arthritis insulin dependent diabetes multiple sclerosis graft versus host disease and lupus syndromes. However treatable inflammatory disorders are not limited to those specifically disclosed herein.

With respect to the therapeutic methods of the presently disclosed subject matter a subject as the term is used herein in some embodiments refers to a vertebrate subject. A preferred vertebrate is warm blooded a preferred warm blooded vertebrate is a mammal. A preferred mammal is most preferably a human. As used herein the term subject includes both human and animal subjects. Thus veterinary therapeutic uses are provided in accordance with the presently disclosed subject matter.

As such the presently disclosed subject matter provides for the treatment of mammals such as humans as well as those mammals of importance due to being endangered such as Siberian tigers of economic importance such as animals raised on farms for consumption by humans and or animals of social importance to humans such as animals kept as pets or in zoos. Examples of such animals include but are not limited to carnivores such as cats and dogs swine including pigs hogs and wild boars ruminants and or ungulates such as cattle oxen sheep giraffes deer goats bison and camels and horses. Also provided is the treatment of birds including the treatment of those kinds of birds that are endangered and or kept in zoos as well as fowl and more particularly domesticated fowl i.e. poultry such as turkeys chickens ducks geese guinea fowl and the like as they are also of economic importance to humans. Thus also provided is the treatment of livestock including but not limited to domesticated swine ruminants ungulates horses including race horses poultry and the like.

Suitable methods for administering to a subject a therapeutic compound in accordance with the methods of the present subject matter include but are not limited to systemic administration parenteral administration including intravascular intramuscular intraarterial administration oral delivery buccal delivery subcutaneous administration inhalation intratracheal installation surgical implantation transdermal delivery local injection and hyper velocity injection bombardment. Where applicable continuous infusion can enhance compound accumulation at a target site see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 180 082 . The particular mode of administration used in accordance with the methods of the present subject matter depends on various factors including but not limited to the compound and or carrier employed the severity of the condition to be treated and mechanisms for metabolism or removal of the compound following administration.

A therapeutic composition as described herein preferably comprises a composition that includes a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Suitable formulations include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions that can contain antioxidants buffers bacteriostats bactericidal antibiotics and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the bodily fluids of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which can include suspending agents and thickening agents.

The compositions used in the methods can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents. Alternatively the active ingredient can be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use. The formulations can be presented in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and can be stored in a frozen or freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of sterile liquid carrier immediately prior to use.

For oral administration the compositions can take the form of for example tablets or capsules prepared by a conventional technique with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients such as binding agents e.g. pregelatinized maize starch polyvinylpyrrolidone or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose fillers e.g. lactose microcrystalline cellulose or calcium hydrogen phosphate lubricants e.g. magnesium stearate talc or silica disintegrants e.g. potato starch or sodium starch glycolate or wetting agents e.g. sodium lauryl sulphate . The tablets can be coated by methods known in the art. For example an MIF antagonist disclosed herein can be formulated as a pH stabilized core having an enteric or delayed release coating which protects the MIF antagonist until it reaches the desired location in the gastrointestinal tract.

Liquid preparations for oral administration can take the form of for example solutions syrups or suspensions or they can be presented as a dry product for constitution with water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations can be prepared by conventional techniques with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents e.g. sorbitol syrup cellulose derivatives or hydrogenated edible fats emulsifying agents e.g. lecithin or acacia non aqueous vehicles e.g. almond oil oily esters ethyl alcohol or fractionated vegetable oils and preservatives e.g. methyl or propyl p hydroxybenzoates or sorbic acid . The preparations can also contain buffer salts flavoring coloring and sweetening agents as appropriate. Preparations for oral administration can be suitably formulated to give controlled release of the active compound. For buccal administration the compositions can take the form of tablets or lozenges formulated in conventional manner.

The compounds can also be formulated as a preparation for implantation or injection. Thus for example the compounds can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials e.g. as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives e.g. as a sparingly soluble salt .

The compounds can also be formulated in rectal compositions e.g. suppositories or retention enemas containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides creams or lotions or transdermal patches.

The presently disclosed subject matter provides antisense polynucleotides that have binding specificity for portions of the MIF coding sequence and can be used to modulate e.g. inhibit the expression of a MIF polynucleotide in a cell or tissue by contacting the cell or tissue with the antisense polynucleotide. In some embodiments the antisense polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence having binding specificity for the polynucleotide sequence CCTTCTGGTGGGGAGAAAT SEQ ID NO 2 of MIF. In some embodiments the siRNA comprises a sense strand comprising the polynucleotide sequence CCUUCUGGUGGGGAGAAAUdTdT SEQ ID NO 3 . Further in some embodiments the siRNA comprises an antisense strand comprising the polynucleotide sequence AUUUCUCCCCACCAGAAGGdTdT SEQ ID NO 4 .

The term modulate as used herein can refer to a change in the expression level of a gene or a level of RNA molecule or equivalent RNA molecules encoding one or more proteins or protein subunits or activity of one or more proteins or protein subunits is up regulated or down regulated such that expression level or activity is greater than or less than that observed in the absence of the modulator. For example the term modulate can mean inhibit or suppress but the use of the word modulate is not limited to this definition.

The term RNA refers to a molecule comprising at least one ribonucleotide residue. By ribonucleotide is meant a nucleotide with a hydroxyl group at the 2 position of a 13 D ribofuranose moiety. The terms encompass double stranded RNA single stranded RNA RNAs with both double stranded and single stranded regions isolated RNA such as partially purified RNA essentially pure RNA synthetic RNA recombinantly produced RNA as well as altered RNA or analog RNA that differs from naturally occurring RNA by the addition deletion substitution and or alteration of one or more nucleotides. Such alterations can include addition of non nucleotide material such as to the end s of an siRNA or internally for example at one or more nucleotides of the RNA. Nucleotides in the RNA molecules of the presently disclosed subject matter can also comprise non standard nucleotides such as non naturally occurring nucleotides or chemically synthesized nucleotides or deoxynucleotides. These altered RNAs can be referred to as analogs or analogs of a naturally occurring RNA.

The term antisense polynucleotide can refer to small interfering RNA short interfering RNA small hairpin RNA siRNA and shRNA which are used interchangeably and refer to any nucleic acid molecule capable of mediating RNA interference RNAi or gene silencing. See e.g. Bass et al 2001 Elbashir et al. 2001a and PCT International Publication Nos. WO 00 44895 WO 01 36646 WO 99 32619 WO 00 01846 WO 01 29058 WO 99 07409 and WO 00 44914.

In one embodiment the antisense polynucleotide is an siRNA and comprises a double stranded polynucleotide molecule comprising complementary sense and antisense regions wherein the antisense region comprises a sequence complementary to a region of a target nucleic acid molecule for example a nucleic acid molecule encoding MIF such that when allowed to hybridize to the target nucleic acid molecule the siRNA binds with specificity to the target nucleic acid molecule. In another embodiment the siRNA comprises a single stranded polynucleotide having self complementary sense and antisense regions wherein the antisense region comprises a sequence complementary to a region of a target nucleic acid molecule. In another embodiment the siRNA comprises a single stranded polynucleotide having one or more loop structures and a stem comprising self complementary sense and antisense regions wherein the antisense region comprises a sequence complementary to a region of a target nucleic acid molecule and wherein the polynucleotide can be processed either in vivo or in vitro to generate an active siRNA capable of mediating RNAi. As used herein siRNA molecules need not be limited to those molecules containing only RNA but further encompass chemically modified nucleotides and non nucleotides.

The presently disclosed subject matter takes advantage of the ability of short double stranded RNA molecules to cause the down regulation of cellular genes a process referred to as RNA interference. As used herein RNA interference RNAi refers to a process of sequence specific post transcriptional gene silencing mediated by a small interfering RNA siRNA . See Fire et al. 1998 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 506 559 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. The process of post transcriptional gene silencing is thought to be an evolutionarily conserved cellular defense mechanism that has evolved to prevent the expression of foreign genes Fire 1999 .

RNAi might have evolved to protect cells and organisms against the production of double stranded RNA dsRNA molecules resulting from infection by certain viruses particularly the double stranded RNA viruses or those viruses for which the life cycle includes a double stranded RNA intermediate or the random integration of transposon elements into the host genome via a mechanism that specifically degrades single stranded RNA or viral genomic RNA homologous to the double stranded RNA species.

The presence of long dsRNAs in cells stimulates the activity of the enzyme Dicer a ribonuclease III. Dicer catalyzes the degradation of dsRNA into short stretches of dsRNA referred to as small interfering RNAs siRNA Bernstein et al. 2001 . The small interfering RNAs that result from Dicer mediated degradation are typically about 21 23 nucleotides in length and contain about 19 base pair duplexes. After degradation the siRNA is incorporated into an endonuclease complex referred to as an RNA induced silencing complex RISC . The RISC is capable of mediating cleavage of single stranded RNA present within the cell that is complementary to the antisense strand of the siRNA duplex. According to Elbashir et al. cleavage of the target RNA occurs near the middle of the region of the single stranded RNA that is complementary to the antisense strand of the siRNA duplex Elbashir et al. 2001b .

RNAi has been described in several cell types and organisms. Fire et al. 1998 described RNAi in . Wianny Zernicka Goetz 1999 disclose RNAi mediated by dsRNA in mouse embryos. Hammond et al. 2000 were able to induce RNAi in cells by transfecting dsRNA into these cells. Elbashir et al. 2001a demonstrated the presence of RNAi in cultured mammalian cells including human embryonic kidney and HeLa cells by the introduction of duplexes of synthetic 21 nucleotide RNAs.

Other studies have indicated that a 5 phosphate on the target complementary strand of a siRNA duplex facilitate siRNA activity and that ATP is utilized to maintain the 5 phosphate moiety on the siRNA Nykanen et al. 2001 . Other modifications that might be tolerated when introduced into an siRNA molecule include modifications of the sugar phosphate backbone or the substitution of the nucleoside with at least one of a nitrogen or sulfur heteroatom PCT International Publication Nos. WO 00 44914 and WO 01 68836 and certain nucleotide modifications that might inhibit the activation of double stranded RNA dependent protein kinase PKR specifically 2 amino or 2 O methyl nucleotides and nucleotides containing a 2 O or 4 C methylene bridge Canadian Patent Application No. 2 359 180 .

Other references disclosing the use of dsRNA and RNAi include PCT International Publication Nos. WO 01 75164 in vitro RNAi system using cells from and the use of specific siRNA molecules for certain functional genomic and certain therapeutic applications WO 01 36646 methods for inhibiting the expression of particular genes in mammalian cells using dsRNA molecules WO 99 32619 methods for introducing dsRNA molecules into cells for use in inhibiting gene expression WO 01 92513 methods for mediating gene suppression by using factors that enhance RNAi WO 02 44321 synthetic siRNA constructs WO 00 63364 and WO 01 04313 methods and compositions for inhibiting the function of polynucleotide sequences and WO 02 055692 and WO 02 055693 methods for inhibiting gene expression using RNAi each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

In some embodiments the presently disclosed subject matter utilizes RNAi to at least partially inhibit expression of MIF. Inhibition is preferably at least about 10 of normal expression amounts. In some embodiments the method comprises contacting a target cell with an antisense polynucleotide in an amount sufficient to inhibit expression of MIF. In some embodiments the target cell is present in a subject and the RNA is introduced into the subject.

The RNA can have a double stranded region comprising a first strand comprising a ribonucleotide sequence that corresponds to the coding strand of the gene encoding the target protein e.g. MIF and a second strand comprising a ribonucleotide sequence that is complementary to the first strand. The first strand and the second strand hybridize to each other to form the double stranded molecule. The double stranded region can be at least 15 basepairs in length and in some embodiments between 15 and 50 basepairs in length and in some embodiments the double stranded region is between 15 and 30 basepairs in length.

In some embodiments the RNA comprises one strand that forms a double stranded region by intramolecular self hybridization which is preferably complementary over at least 19 bases. In some embodiments the RNA comprises two separate strands that form a double stranded region by intermolecular hybridization that is complementary over at least 19 bases.

One skilled in the art will recognize that any number of suitable common techniques can be used to introduce the RNAs into a target cell. In some embodiments a vector encoding the RNA is introduced to the target cell. For example the vector encoding the RNA can be transfected into the target cell and the RNA is then transcribed by cellular polymerases.

In some embodiments a recombinant virus comprising a nucleic acid encoding the RNA can be produced. Introducing the RNA into a target cell then comprises infecting the target cell with the recombinant virus. Cellular polymerases transcribe the RNA resulting in expression of the RNA within the target cell. Engineering recombinant viruses is well known to those having ordinary skill in the art. One of skill would readily appreciate the multiple factors involved in selecting the appropriate virus and vector components needed to optimize recombinant virus production for use with the presently disclosed subject matter without the necessity of further detailed discussion herein. Details of recombinant virus production and use can be found in published PCT International Application No. PCT US02 22010 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. Alternatively a commercial kit for producing recombinant viruses can be used such as for example the pSILENCER ADENO 1.0 CMV SYSTEM Ambion Austin Tex. USA .

The following Examples have been included to illustrate modes of the presently disclosed subject matter. In light of the present disclosure and the general level of skill in the art those of skill will appreciate that the following Examples are intended to be exemplary only and that numerous changes modifications and alterations can be employed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter.

MIF expression is increased in response to low oxygen tension as demonstrated in cancer cell lines Bacher et al. 2003 Koong et al. 2000a . Because pancreatic cancers are reportedly very hypoxic Koong et al. 2000b a study was initiated to investigate MIF regulation by hypoxia in human pancreatic cancer cell lines. Results indicate that two human pancreatic adeno carcinoma cell lines MIA PaCa 2 and PANC 1 are sensitive to hypoxia induced transcriptional regulation of MIF. Specifically it was found that MIF secretion and transcription is markedly increased when subjected to a low oxygen environment. Accompanying are data from cells that had been transfected with short interfering RNA siRNA oligos designed against human MIF. Additionally mouse embryonic fibroblasts MEFs from HIF 1 deficient mice Ryan et al. 1998 Zundel et al. 2000 were found to be severely refractory to hypoxia induced MIF transcription .

Tumor hypoxia has been described as an excellent prognostic indicator for neoplastic disease in general Janssen et al. 2005 Menon and Fraker 2005 Shannon et al. 2003 and pancreatic cancer specifically Koong et al. 2000b . In an attempt to correlate the presently disclosed in vitro findings to a clinical setting MIF plasma levels were next measured in patients previously diagnosed with pancreatic adenocarcinoma. A study was established to assess MIF levels in plasma samples from normal control donors and patients with cancer of the pancreas who had yet to undergo any cancer therapy. As shown in the median MIF levels for control plasma was 24.8 ng ml while pancreatic carcinoma patient s mean MIF levels were 36.8 ng ml P 0.0382 by two tailed Student s t test . These results are the first to show a positive correlation between MIF levels in the plasma and patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

some transcriptional targets of HIF 1 can possibly also regulate the expression and or stabilization of HIF Epstein et al. 2001 Hagen et al. 2003 . The results in Example 1 demonstrate that MIF is a target of HIF 1 gene transcription and is strongly induced by hypoxia. Because of the well documented modulation of hypoxia induced gene expression by HIF 1 it was investigated whether HIF 1 stabilization by hypoxia was sensitive to loss of MIF.

MIF specific siRNA was transfected into MIA Paca 2 cells before being incubated in 0.2 O anoxia for 16 hours. As shown in depletion of MIF by siRNA resulted in a loss of cytoplasmic MIF expression by greater than 90 while not affecting actin expression. While HIF 1 was efficiently stabilized in the nuclei by anoxia treatment in mock transfected or control siRNA transfected cells cells lacking MIF were completely deficient in HIF 1 stabilization . To more thoroughly investigate the requirements for MIF in hypoxia mediated HIF 1 stabilization a time course evaluating MIF containing vs. deficient pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells exposed to 1 O hypoxia was performed. The findings revealed that there is a strong requirement for MIF in hypoxia mediated HIF stabilization at all time points evaluated and that this requirement is at the level of HIF protein stability see also Winner et al. 2007 .

Hypoxia induced expression of vascular endothelial cell growth factor VEGF is a critical step in the malignant progression of tumors and is the target of multiple anti cancer modalities Zhong and Bowen 2006 . Because of the potency of this pro angiogenic growth factor in stimulating tumor associated angiogenesis it has been reported that disruption of the expression or signaling of VEGF is anti tumorigenic Grunstein et al. 1999 Tsuzuki et al. 2000 Graeven et al. 2001 . To determine whether hypoxia induced VEGF transcription was attenuated by MIF depletion Real Time PCR analysis on MIF competent or deficient cells exposed to hypoxia for differing times was performed. The data indicate that maximal hypoxia induced VEGF transcription is heavily reliant upon MIF which may explain why MIF is so vitally important for tumor associated angiogenesis Chesney et al. 1999 Wilson et al. 2005 White et al. 2001 Shun et al. 2005 . In a broader sense these studies indicate that pancreatic tumorigenic potential suggested to be globally influenced by hypoxia initiated signaling Koong et al. 2000b may be dependent upon the presence of MIF.

Because MIF is reported to modulate the function of CSN5 Kleemann et al. 2000 and CSN5 was recently shown to be necessary for hypoxia induced HIF 1 stabilization Bemis et al. 2004 it was next sought to determine if there was any functional connection between MIF and CSN5 in HIF 1 stabilization. To determine if MIF interacts with CSN5 in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells co immunoprecipitations were performed from lysates of cells exposed to varying concentrations of CoCl. As shown in MIF was efficiently co immunoprecipitated with CSN5 under all conditions tested with a very moderate increase observed in the presence of CoCl. This increase in MIF CSN5 interaction was very reproducible and suggests that there may be some level of regulation that influences MIF CSN5 intracellular binding.

Because binding of CSN5 acts to functionally stabilize HIF 1 Bemis et al. 2004 it was next determined whether loss of MIF disrupts binding of HIF 1 to CSN5. Co immunoprecipitation of the CSN5 HIF 1 complex from untreated and CoC treated MIF competent and depleted cells revealed that loss of MIF significantly decreased CSN5 binding to HIF 1 induced by PHD inhibition . Although there appeared to be a significant difference between the HIF 1 expression in cell lysates top panel versus the amount of HIF 1 being pulled down with CSN5 middle panel the possibility that the observed loss of CSN5 HIF 1 interaction in MIF depleted cells was simply due to overall loss of HIF 1 stabilization could not be ruled out.

To address this issue a proteasome inhibitor was used to artificially stabilize HIF 1 in MIF containing and MIF depleted cells. Importantly MIF depleted pancreatic carcinoma cells treated with proteasome inhibitor contained an equivalent amount of stabilized HIF 1 as cells containing MIF . This finding suggests a role for MIF in modulating HIF 1 protein degradation and not transcription or translation.

Cell lysates were then assessed for CSN5 HIF 1 interactions in MG 132 mediated HIF 1 stabilized cells. Intriguingly MG 132 treated MIF containing cells contained a significant amount of CSN5 bound HIF 1 while MIF deficient cells contained only a small fraction of this CSN5 HIF 1 complex . It is noteworthy that CSN5 levels were unchanged by MIF status . These results suggest a direct functional role for MIF in CSN5 dependent HIF 1 stabilization.

Combined these findings reveal a novel co regulatory axis between MIF and HIF 1 in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells. The data indicate that MIF expression and secretion is enhanced by hypoxia in a HIF 1 dependent manner and more importantly that steady state MIF is necessary for hypoxia induced HIF 1 stabilization. The results further suggest that MIF contributes to HIF 1 stabilization by facilitating CSN5 binding to HIF 1 and is consistent with prior reports describing MIF as a functional regulator of CSN5 bioactions Kleemann et al. 2000 .

These studies further suggest that MIF represents an excellent target to design anti neoplastic pharmacologic agents. Not only is MIF necessary for determining HIF 1 stability in hypoxic environments subsequent stabilization of HIF acts to increase the expression and secretion of MIF leading to increased tumor cell motility as well as enhanced proliferative potential. The next set of Examples disclose investigations on the identification and testing of the presently disclosed MIF inhibitory compounds and demonstrate they are active in blocking hypoxia induced stabilization of HIF 1 and subsequent malignant phenotypes.

The only reported virtual screen against MIF utilized an early version of DOCK with the Advanced Chemistry Development ACD libraries and found compounds in the library that were similar to the normal substrates and some with very high activities enrichment rate of 3 Orita et al. 2001 . For the present studies a novel MIF inhibitor template that could be subsequently modified was devised and tested. The base of the MIF substrate binding pocket Met A2 was targeted and the computer program LUDI Accelrys San Diego Calif. U.S.A. was used which considers hydrogen bond donors and acceptors and aliphatic nature parameters 8 radius with no linkage or rotatable bonds 5000 fits 300 lowest hits to be stored aliphatic aromatic and electrostatic check options using the ACD library in a rigid body dock. The sdf files from the ACD Elsevier MDL San Ramon Calif. U.S.A. using GENFRA Accelrys were transformed and a library of 343 802 structures was obtained suitable for the virtual screening software LUDI as opposed to Dock used by Orita et al. Orita et al. 2001 . The first three energy functions were used and a manual consensus score ranked the lists. The top 100 hits were ranked and of these 76 compounds were found to be commercially available and obtained through CHEMNAVIGATOR San Diego Calif. U.S.A. Walters and Murcko 2002 . Of the 76 compounds initially obtained only 41 were found to be soluble in aqueous solutions at 100 M concentrations. The 35 aqueous insoluble compounds can be further tested for their solubility and catalytic inhibitory activities at lower concentrations. Of the 41 compounds that were initially soluble 9 were found to be inhibitory to the catalytic activity of purified recombinant MIF 22.0 success rate 9 41 against purified protein compared to the 

Orita and colleagues identified 524 potential inhibitors and tested them for MIF tautomerase inhibition. Of these they found that 14 had MIF enzyme inhibitory activities hit rate 2.67 compared to present hit rate of 20 with Kvalues reportedly ranging between 0.038 to 7.4 M. In order to further validate the present novel virtual screening approach and compounds identified using it the identified compounds were tested against the most potent inhibitor identified in this earlier screen. This compound 3 4 7 tryhydroxyisoflavone TI reported Kof 38 nM was obtained from two independent companies and compared to three of the presently identified compounds. Surprisingly while TI had been reported to have a Kof 38 nM the assay results conducted by the present inventors and colleagues indicated that 3 4 7 tryhydroxyisoflavone was several orders of magnitude weaker than claimed and exhibited similar inhibitory activities as two of the presently disclosed compounds. Furthermore 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine also referred to in the Examples and figures as compound 16 was found to have an ICthat was 5 lower than that of 3 4 7 tryhydroxyisoflavone TI 16 5 M versus TI 25 M . Of note similar results were obtained from both commercial sources of 3 4 7 tryhydroxyisoflavone. This finding suggests that the presently identified MIF antagonist 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine is the most potent MIF inhibitor reported to date. It is believed that combined with further data described herein this validates the novel presently disclosed virtual screening approach proposed to identify novel small molecule inhibitors of MIF.

As noted hereinabove see it has been determined that MIF is necessary for hypoxia and prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor induced HIF 1 stabilization and subsequent hypoxic adaptation of pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells. It was next tested whether MIF pharmacologic inhibitors were capable of recapitulating the destabilizing effects on HIF 1 we had observed using MIF siRNA . In addition to testing the newly determined MIF antagonist 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine also referred to as compound 16 the TI compound identified in the Orita screen was also tested. Inhibition of MIF by compound 16 completely inhibited HIF 1 stabilization induced by CoCl a prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor in pancreatic carcinoma cells when used at very high concentrations 100 M .

It was next tested whether the observed differences in the catalytic inhibitory activities between these two compounds was similarly observed in this biological assay of MIF inhibition. As shown in 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine inhibited HIF 1 stabilization in a dose dependent manner and suppressed HIF 1 nearly 50 of control at 10 M. In contrast 3 4 7 tryhydroxyisoflavone displayed no inhibitory activity at 10 M and only slight inhibitory activity at 50 M. Of note this 5 fold difference in biological inhibitory activity closely corresponds to the 5 fold difference in enzymatic inhibitory activity that was observed when comparing these two compounds . It is significant to note that similar inhibitory effects were observed on CoCl induced VEGF expression and secretion as measured by ELISA with 16 suppressing greater than 80 of PHD inhibitor induced VEGF at 50 M compared to a roughly 20 decrease in VEGF with TI. Intriguingly ISO 1 was also able to inhibit HIF 1 stabilization induced by CoClbut was only moderately effective at concentrations of 100 M or higher which correlate very closely with its enzyme inhibitory activity .

Lastly in order to verify that the effect of 16 on HIF 1 inhibition is through its inhibitory effects on MIF MIF containing cells and MIF deficient cells were tested for inhibitory activity. As shown in 16 potently blocks HIF 1 stabilization in MIF murine embryonic fibroblasts while MIF fibroblasts were unaffected by the MIF inhibitor. Without wishing to be bound by theory this finding can be significant for two reasons 1 this demonstrates MIF specificity for compound 16 and 2 this provides an additional and valuable screening tool to assess MIF specificity of congeners of 16 as well as other newly identified potent small molecule MIF inhibitors.

Combined these data suggest the identification of a new class of indirect HIF inhibitors. Because of its central importance in conferring hypoxic adaptation and the resultant aggressive and metastatic phenotypes there is a tremendous push right now to identify small molecule inhibitors of HIF . The present findings suggest that small molecule targeting of MIF represents a unique indirect means of inhibiting this important transcription factor.

The above Examples demonstrate that the previously described prototype for catalytic MIF inhibitors e.g. 3 4 7 tryhydroxyisoflavone is a less effective catalytic and biologic inhibitor of MIF s actions than the presently identified MIF inhibitory compounds. The prototypical MIF biologic inhibitor ISO 1 was next evaluated against the presently identified MIF inhibitory compounds and in particular 4 iodo 6 phenypyrimidine. ISO 1 is a well characterized inhibitor of both in vitro and in vivo biologic actions of MIF Lubetsky et al. 2002 Nicoletti et al. 2005 Al Abed et al. 2005 Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 . Recent studies from the present inventors and colleagues Rendon et al. 2006 and other laboratories Ren et al. 2006 Sun et al. 2005 Ren et al. 2005 Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 reveal that MIF is necessary for maximal tumor cell migration invasion and ISO 1 inhibits MIF dependent cell migration and anchorage independent growth Rendon et al. 2006 Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 . As such 4 iodo 6 phenypyrimidine also referred to herein as compound 16 was tested against ISO 1 and determined relative inhibitory effects on both catalytic and biologic activities of MIF. As shown in compound 16 s ICis 10 less than ISO 1 for both enzyme and migration inhibition ISO 1 at 10 M is completely inactive indicating that this molecule is a significantly more potent and viable MIF antagonist than ISO 1. Importantly these migration inhibition results are nearly identical when done in the same manner in MIA PaCa 2 pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells.

The relative capabilities of ISO 1 and 16 to inhibit lung adenocarcinoma anchorage independent growth were next tested and compared. As shown in both ISO 1 and compound 16 inhibit A549 soft agar growth but 16 was found to be between 5 10 fold more potent similar to ICdata from than ISO 1. Not only is this finding important because it validates the use of small molecule targeting of MIF in malignant disease intervention but also because it identifies a novel more potent MIF inhibitor than any other reported compound.

In a study designed to evaluate the in vivo efficacy of anti MIF compounds 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine compound 16 was tested in a xenograft model of human non small cell lung cancer NSCLC outgrowth. Because it was found that compound 16 inhibited anchorage independence of A549 it was hypothesized that tumor outgrowth would be similarly inhibited. As shown in while vehicle treated mice developed subcutaneous tumor lesions beginning at day 16 mice treated with Cmpd 16 remained tumor free. These data suggest that compound 16 and related compounds of Formula I disclosed herein are deliverable and can in fact inhibit tumor outgrowth.

A study to determine the MTD and in vivo inhibitory activity of compound 16 was also completed. Using 2 mice per group it was found that daily injections for 7 days of 0.5 1 2 and 4 mg doses 25 50 100 and 200 mg kg respectively of 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrmidine revealed no apparent toxicity. In vivo enzyme inhibition by compound 16 was next analyzed. A single bolus injection of 50 mg kg of 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine was found to inhibit endogenous liver MIF enzyme tautomerase activity at 6 hours post injection by greater than 50 . Combined these data demonstrate that presently disclosed MIF antagonists as exemplified by 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrmidine are both safe and active in in vivo studies and are about ten times more effective than the prototypical MIF small compound inhibitor ISO 1. Further the discovery of the present MIF inhibitory compounds of Formula I disclosed herein by the present novel virtual screening and systematic testing methods validates the present approach and experimental design to identify further MIF small molecule inhibitors.

As previously noted the ability of small molecule antagonists to block MIFs biological functions requires the blockade of MIF binding to its cell surface receptor Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 . A high throughput assay has been designed to investigate inhibitors of MIF binding to its cell surface receptor CD74 Leng et al. 2003 . The capture assay is based on the binding of a biotinylated human recombinant MIF hrMIF ligand to bind to the extracellular MIF binding domain of CD74 see .

To assess potential inhibitors of MIF MIF receptor interaction biotinylated MIF was co incubate with MIF specific inhibitors or unlabeled MIF. In the case of unlabeled MIF this also provides a simple experimental approach to measuring relative MIF receptor binding ability of site specific mutants that can be constructed for structure function studies.

By way of example show two capture assay experiments demonstrating 1 partially defective CD74 binding by an MIF protein mutated at Pro 1 and which is known to be required for both enzymatic and biologic function Swope et al. 1998 and 2 very efficient blocking of MIF sCD74 by compounds 16 and ISO 1 . Note that for the experiment described in the maximal inhibition possible for this assay is 50 due to the use of only 0.1 M MIF antagonist against 0.2 M biotinylated MIF used. As such compound 16 inhibits MIF receptor binding at the highest possible percentage i.e. 50 . Note also the increased efficacy of compound 16 over ISO 1 in blocking MIF MIF receptor interactions. This capture assay is clearly a very valuable tool with which to study structure function relationships between enzyme and biologic activities. Moreover binding studies testing mutant MIF proteins can reveal amino acid residues with which to modify for small molecule MIF targeting screens. It is expected that receptor binding data gleaned from candidate compound testing coupled with those from individual point muteins can enable one to modify and expand amino acid residue targets within the active site of MIF.

All solid tumors require microenvironmental adaptation throughout tumorigenesis. One of the hallmarks of this adaptive response is the development of intratumoral hypoxia that stimulates HIF directed expression of pro tumorigenic angiogenic genes. The present findings establish that one of these gene products MIF is elevated in pancreatic cancer patients and represents one component of a unique functional inter relationship between the extracellular cytokine growth factor MIF and the transcription factor HIF 1 . This point is demonstrated by the present data showing that cells lacking MIF or those treated with small molecule MIF antagonists are refractory to hypoxia and PHD inhibitor induced HIF 1 stabilization and subsequent transcription of metabolic and angiogenic gene products. Because HIF expression is described as contributing directly to tumor aggressiveness and cancers of the pancreas are reportedly very hypoxic Koong et al. 2000b it is likely that MIF functionally contributes to tumor maintenance environmental adaptation and ultimately prognosis. Thus the presently disclosed MIF antagonists represent a new class of indirect HIF 1 antagonists and anti cancer agents.

Several MIF recombinant protein expression plasmids are constructed containing individual point mutations to assess their relative structure function relationship to MIFs biologic in vitro receptor binding versus catalytic actions. To identify novel more potent inhibitors of MIF virtual screens can be carried out focusing on those amino acids found to be necessary for receptor binding and or catalytic functions. Several virtual libraries consisting of over 18 000 000 compounds can be computationally screened.

Generation of site specific mutations in human MIF. A re investigation of the three dimensional structure of MIF reveals that there are several well conserved amino acid residues surrounding and within the substrate binding pocket of MIF that may either directly influence MIF substrate interactions or could conceivable modify the binding pocket properties. Residues reported to be important for substrate binding to MIF include Pro 1 Lys 32 Ile 64 from one MIF monomer and Tyr 95 Asn 97 from an adjacent one Lubetsky et al. 1999 . The present inventors and colleagues have identified numerous other residues from the crystal structure of the MIF substrate binding pocket that are potentially important for docking or binding of the substrate receptor. These include residues Met 2 Pro 33 Tyr 36 His 62 Ser 63 Lys 66 Met 101 Val 106 Trp 108 and Phe 113. Interestingly with the exception of Met 101 these residues are extremely well conserved throughout many species and in some cases between the distant MIF relative D dopachrome tautomerase Swope et al. 1998 .

All site specific mutations can be made by the use of the QUICKCHANGE Site Directed Mutagenesis Kit Stratagene La Jolla Calif. U.S.A. . Briefly PCR primer pairs can be made containing the mutation s of interest and PCR amplification of pET11b MIF prokaryotic expression plasmid Bernhagen et al. 1994 performed as described by the manufacturer. All residues targeted for mutation can replace the amino acid of interest with alanine and all mutants can be verified by sequencing.

MIF enzyme can be expressed purified and refolded as described Bernhagen et al. 1994 for each mutant. Relative enzymatic activities can be assessed as described immediately below and CD74 binding studies can be determined as described hereinbelow. These mutational data can be used to identify critical residues of MIF that will be targeted in lead anti MIF small molecule antagonists. This information can further enable the refinement of the virtual screen as well as indicate additional sites that chemical synthesis should target by building off the existing compounds to include interactions with these residues.

Dopachrome tautomerase assay. Prior to testing candidate compounds in MIF specific bioassays all identified antagonists can be screened for their respective abilities to inhibit MIF dependent catalytic activity in the dopachrome tautomerase assay. MIF catalysis and inhibitory studies can be performed as described Lubetsky et al. 2002 . Briefly L Dopachrome methyl ester can be prepared at 2.4 mM through oxidation of L 3 4 dihydroxyphenylalanine methyl ester Sigma St. Louis Mo. with sodium periodate as previously described Dios et al. 2002 . Activity can be determined at room temperature by adding dopachrome methyl ester 0.3 ml to a cuvette containing 500 nM rMIF Bernhagen et al. 1994 in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 6 0.5 mM EDTA and 5 minutes later measuring the decrease in absorbance at 475 nm spectrophotometrically. All mutant MIF enzymes purified as described above can be tested against the relative activity of wildtype MIF enzyme using this method. Additionally candidate inhibitors identified in the last section of the present Example can be dissolved in DMSO at various concentrations and added to the cuvette final concentration of DMSO will be no more than 0.1 with the MIF 1 minute prior to the addition of the dopachrome substrate.

CD74 capture assay. Soluble CD74 protein sCD74 can be expressed and purified as described previously Leng et al. 2003 . Briefly the cDNA comprising coding region of A.A. 73 232 can be PCR amplified and ligated into the pCR T7 CT TOPO F expression vector Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. U.S.A. . Recombinant sCD74 can be expressed in BL21 DE3 pLysS under IPTG induction. The sCD74 protein can be purified from bacterial lysates by Ni NTA affinity chromatography. Biotinylation of hrMIF can be performed according to manufacturer s instructions Biotin Labeling Kit Roche Molecular Biochemicals Indianapolis Ind. U.S.A. .

96 well plates can be coated with 60 l well of purified soluble CD74 CD74 at 0.1 mg ml and incubated at 4 C. overnight. Plates can be washed with T TBS and then incubated in SUPERBLOCK Pierce Rockford Ill. U.S.A. at 4 C. overnight. After removal of blocking buffer various concentrations of anti CD74 denatured MIF MIF or mutant MIFs can be incubated for 30 mins at room temperature. 0.2 M of biotin MIF is then added directly to the plate and incubated at 4 C. overnight. For inhibitor assays various concentrations of the compound can be pre incubated with 0.2 M biotin MIF for 30 mins at room temperature in the dark before adding to plates and incubating overnight. After washing the plate 4 times with T TBS Streptavidin AP R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. U.S.A. is added to wells and incubated for an additional 1 hour at room temperature in the dark. After washing 60 l well of PNPP Sigma is added and allowed to develop in the dark until being read at 405 nm.

Virtual screening against MIFs catalytic active site. Computational methods can be utilized to screen up to 18 million potential small molecule inhibitors of MIF. The strategy starts with the dictate that target binding site is the methionine A2 at the base of the MIF binding pocket as disclosed hereinabove. This target residue is unique from previously described virtual screens Orita et al. 2001 and the data presented herein indicates that additional compounds can be discovered using this novel approach. In addition to targeting Met A2 the results of mutation data can be incorporated to include those regions found to be important in the MIF MIF receptor interactions and or those found to be necessary for catalytic function. A variety of virtual screening software with different scoring algorithms can be run to arrive at a consensus score for identifying lead compounds to test against both the catalytic and biologic activities of MIF. The latest versions of DOCK Ewing et al. 2001 FlexX Rarey et al. 1996 and CSCORE Tripos St. Louis Mo. U.S.A. can be used for prescreening the larger databases to derive a smaller binding database that can be examined using more flexible protocols with DOCK 6.1 allows flexible receptor Autodock Goodsell et al. 1996 Surflex Jain 2003 and Molegro Thomsen Christensen 2006 . An advantage of using more than one method and scoring technique is that there is no universal way that this is transferable to any system. When combined this also increases the enrichment of the hits and reduces false positives.

Small molecule databases that can be searched and contain compounds that are commercially obtainable are the NCl diversity set containing 1 990 small molecules with Sybyl generated Gasteiger charges ZINC library that currently contains over 4 600 000 small molecules with the more accurate AMSOL calculated partial charges this is an alternative to the ACD library with a greater number of molecules that have been filtered for size logP number of H bond acceptor and donors in accordance to a relaxed Lipinski s rule of Walters et al. 1999 Walters and Murcko 2002 Lipinski 2000 and Chemnavigator Walters and Murcko 2002 iResearch library with over 14 000 000 unique commercially available structures. The iResearch library can be checked for overlap with the ZINC library and the unique structures can form a new library. For the iResearch 2D database CONCORD can be used generate 3D conformations.

The data shown in was generated using a rigid docking procedure with Ludi Accelrys software and the ACD library converted using Corina and Genfra . However Ludi may not perform as well as the docking software mentioned above and is limited with respect to ligand flexibility and partial charges. An initial DOCK screen can use a grid spacing of 0.3 contact cutoff of 4.5 and an energy cutoff at 10 . AMBER Cornell et al. 1995 charges can be used for grid generation for MIF target binding pocket. A rigid ligand docking can then be performed and combined with the contact score chemical score and energy scores for the top 10 000 molecules. These can be subsequently used for fully flexible docking. A similar approach can be used with the other virtual screening software. The protocols can be adapted depending on the results.

This Example builds on identified and tested inhibitors of MIF as well as unique templates identified using the methodology of targeted virtual screening outlined in Example 9. Both virtual combinatorial library screening and data analysis from receptor binding catalytic activities of point mutants can be used to deduce compound optimization.

Virtual combinatorial library generation and screening. The Sybyl software LEGION Thorpe et al. 1999 allows for reaction based generation of combinatorial libraries where known chemical synthetic reactions are used to generate libraries of synthetically obtainable compounds. This enhances the possibility of designing a molecule that can actually be made as lists of reagents and reactions are generated for each new compound. Alternatively LEGION can be used in a product based manner that makes systematic changes to user defined sites of the core molecule. These libraries can then be more thoroughly evaluated using flexible docking software to allow for conformational flexibility of the ligand and receptor in the MIF binding pocket. This process can also be used for any new biologically active compounds that are found in Example 8. Should these procedures not result in new analogs that are more active the alternative in silico combinatorial generation program COMBILIBMAKER Cramer et al. 1998 Pearlman and Smith 1999 which uses a library of side chains attached at user specified positions can be used. The MIF mutation data from Example 8 can be used to direct the region of the template to grow the molecule to cover residue side chains important for the MIF MIF receptor interaction and or catalytic activity.

Compound optimization and synthetic scheme. 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine and related compounds is unique among other ligands for MIF as and without wishing to be bound by theory it is the iodo group that is anchored in the base of the MIF binding at the Met A2 position . The pyrimidine ring forms two hydrogen bonds N3 to Ile A64 backbone interaction and N1 to side chain of Lys A32. The phenyl group gives additional stabilization by stacking on Tyr A36. The chemical optimization has several possibilities 1 modifying the iodo group to form a hydrogen bond to Met A2 replacing I with a CHOH 2 introducing an hydroxyl group at position 2 on the phenyl ring would hydrogen bond to N1 position of the pyrimidine as well as increase the electrostatic interaction O NH with the side chain of Lys A32 3 substitution at the 3 position of the phenyl group with a CHCHOH would enable an interaction with the side chain of Lys A66 4 substitution at the 4 position of the phenyl group with either a H bond acceptor or donor to increase interaction with the OH of Tyr A36 5 substitution at the 5 position of the phenyl group with a H bond acceptor to enable an interaction with Trp A108 NH 6 substitution at the 5 and 6 positions of the phenyl group with a H bond acceptor or donor to enable an interaction with Tyr C95 OH 7 substitution at the C2 position of the pyrimidine ring with a H bond acceptor or donor to enable an interaction with Ser A63 . Mutational data from Example 8 can provide important clues as to which residues to target and can therefore play an important role in determining which derivatives may be desirable to make and test.

A synthetic scheme is described for derivatization of MIF inhibitor compound 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine Scheme 1 . This scheme is meant to serve as a generalized template for synthetic studies for additional compounds identified from the virtual screening strategy described in Example 8. The stereo electronic space can first be mapped around a lead compound. Accordingly a synthetic sequence has been designed that utilizes a minimum number of steps from readily available commercial starting materials and reagents. An added advantage of this synthetic plan is that the order can be modified in which substituents are incorporated on either one of the rings. In addition if needed one can be able to functionalize the substituents e.g. oxidation of alcohol or substitution reactions to name a few . The synthesis of 1 can be done in one single step Sakamoto et al. 1980 from a commercially available starting material 6 which in itself is an attractive candidate for testing eq 1 .

The synthesis of the alcohol derivatives 2 4 can be accomplished using a common sequence Scheme 1 that employs a Suzuki coupling either in the first or the second step in this two step sequence Gong and Pauls 2000 Wang et al. 2005 Saygili et al. 2004 . An added advantage of this synthesis is that the boronic acids are commercially available and if the hydroxy groups cause some difficulties they can be easily protected with a variety of protecting agents as show in the scheme. The synthesis of 5 is based on published procedures Sawayama et al. 1977 and is shown in eq 2.

By initially using the compound 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine as a core structure and following the representative synthetic scheme illustrated above Scheme 1 additional potent analogs of this MIF antagonist can be identified. Moreover the virtual screening studies described in Example 8 can produce additional molecules of interest that can be available for analysis using the Sybyl software generated combinatorial libraries followed by synthesis of lead derivatives. The extensive mutational analyses of MIF dependent receptor binding catalytic studies can reveal several amino acid residues that can be more appropriately targeted using novel substituent groups or expansion of on the core structures disclosed herein.

In addition to testing for inhibition of MIF dependent catalysis and receptor binding described in Example 8 all candidate MIF inhibitory compounds can be tested in two independent in vitro MIF bio assays. All lead derivative anti MIF compounds as well as newly identified molecules can initially be tested for both catalytic and receptor binding inhibitory activities see Example 8 . Following the testing of these compounds for catalytic receptor binding blocking activities inhibitory effects on HIF stabilization and cell migration can then be assessed for all compounds regardless of enzymatic or receptor binding inhibition.

The requirements for MIF binding to CD74 can be tested in an HIF 1 stabilization assay. A prior study has shown that CD74 is in fact required for prostate cancer cell invasion and anchorage independence and is likewise necessary for the ability of ISO 1 to block these effects Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 . As shown in MIF cells are similar in phenotype to MIF siRNA transfected cells in that both cell types lacking MIF demonstrate significantly reduced PHD inhibitor induced HIF 1 stabilization. CD74 fibroblasts can similarly be tested for their ability to stabilize HIF 1 induced by hypoxia or PHD inhibitors. In addition candidate compounds found to be inhibitory in bioassays can be tested for specificity in both MIF and CD74 mouse embryonic fibroblasts.

Screening of HIF 1 de stabilization by candidate MIF inhibitors. The presently disclosed discovery that MIF plays a central role in HIF stability was from studies done in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines. These studies further show that MIA PaCa 2 pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells are very sensitive to MIF inhibitor mediated HIF de stabilization . This cell line can be utilized for large scale testing of candidate MIF antagonists. In order to scale up this in vitro screen a DuoSet ELISA based assay to detect total HIF 1 in human cell lysates can be utilized R D Systems . The initial studies demonstrate that both MIF siRNA and MIF antagonist compound 16 50 M inhibit CoCl induced HIF stabilization 75 90 that of control as assessed by this HIF 1 ELISA. MIA Paca 2 cells can be plated at 5 10cells well in 24 well plates for 16 hours. Media can be replaced with fresh media containing 0.1 DMSO control 50 M 16 control and 5 50 M concentrations of test inhibitor all in duplicate wells. After 1 hour cells can be challenged with 150 M CoClfor an additional 6 hours. After rinsing the cells twice with PBS supplied kit lysis buffer can be used to lyse the cells following manufacturer s directions. Prior coating and blocking of HIF 1 capture antibody can be performed according to instructions and diluted cell lysates can be assayed on the HIF 1 ELISA plates.

Those compounds demonstrating activities against HIF 1 accumulation can be tested more extensively and at a broader range of concentrations. Specifically 10 fold increment doses can be tested ranging between 5 nM to 50 M. Lead MIF inhibitory compounds can be further confirmed by evaluating inhibitory activities against hypoxia induced as opposed to PHD inhibitor induced HIF 1 . Additionally compounds can be tested against hypoxia induced VEGF expression by ELISA and GLUT 1 expression levels by western blotting.

Human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell migration. It may be desirable to determine whether MIF receptor binding is required for all of the inhibitory effects of MIF inhibitors. Meyer Siegler et al. teaches that tumor cell migration and anchorage independence require CD74 Meyer Siegler et al. 2006 but are less certain of a requirement for CD74 in MIF dependent HIF stabilization. As such all candidate anti MIF compounds can be tested for inhibition of HIF stabilization and cell migration in human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines to determine if there are correlative inhibitory activities in both assays and whether this correlates with MIF receptor binding and or catalytic activity.

Briefly 2 10M IA PaCa 2 human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells can be resuspended in 0.3 mls of migration media DMEM 0.5 BSA and allowed to incubate for 30 minutes in the presence of vehicle 0.1 MeSO 5 M or 50 M candidate inhibitor. Collagen coated 10 g ml in PBS overnight transwell chambers can be placed in 0.4 mls migration media and cells can be placed in the upper chamber. 16 hours later cells from upper chamber can be swabbed out and the membrane bottoms can be stained with crystal violet and solubilized with isopropanol acetic acid followed by reading spectrophotometrically at OD 570. Those compounds exhibiting inhibitory effects on cell migration can be further tested at a broader range of concentrations e.g. 5 nM to 50 M and ICconcentrations can be determined.

MIF receptor CD74 requirements for HIF 1 stabilization and specificity of lead MIF inhibitors. To determine whether CD74 is necessary for MIF dependent HIF stabilization wildtype C57BI 6 and CD74 C57BI 6 MEFs can be plated at nearly confluent conditions in duplicate in 24 well plates for 16 hours. In parallel MIF mouse fibroblasts C57BI 6 can be plated in duplicate at equal density. After 16 hours cells can be challenged with either hypoxia 1 O or PHD inhibitors for an additional 6 hours and cell lysates can be examined for relative HIF 1 stabilization by the total HIF 1 ELISA described hereinabove in the present Example. HIF concentrations extrapolated from internal ELISA standard curves can be evaluated to determine whether HIF stabilization induced by hypoxia or CoClis defective in CD74 deficient cells similar to the defect observed in MIF deficient cells .

In order to test the specificity of lead anti MIF compounds wildtype MIF and CD74 fibroblasts all C57BI 6 plated as above can be treated with previously determined HIF effective inhibitory doses for 1 hour followed by challenge with CoClfor 6 hours. HIF 1 protein levels can then be determined by ELISA and relative decreases in wildtype MEFs can be compared to any decrease observed in MIF and CD74 cells.

Lastly parallel in vitro cytotoxicity studies can be performed alongside these experiments when and if it is suspected that there is any evidence of toxicity. Briefly cells can be treated with vehicle DMSO or candidate compounds at concentrations ranging from 1 M to 100 M for 24 hours. For these studies a method of tetrazolium reduction known as ALAMAR BLUE Serotec Limited Oxford United Kingdom can be used. ALAMAR BLUE reagent can be added at a 10 solution to cells for 4 hours and then read on a fluorescent plate reader at wavelengths of 530 nm excitation and 590 nm emission. Toxicity can be assessed by dividing the fluorescence value from vehicle treated wells from those treated with individual drugs.

Tumor growth and associated hypoxic adaptation of transplanted pancreatic carcinoma xenografts in mice treated with lead anti MIF compounds can be evaluated. Immunohistochemical analyses of HIF 1 and HIF 1 target genes CA9 GLUT 1 can be evaluated along with various histological biomarkers such as angiogenesis hypoxia apoptosis and necrosis. Control pancreatic carcinoma cell lines expressing constitutive MIF siRNA or a dominant interfering mutant of HIF 1 can be tested both with and without inhibitor treatment to determine MIF and HIF specificity.

Determine tumor growth properties of human pancreatic xenografts in mice treated with lead MIF antagonists. The capacity of a CD74 positive human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line to develop into solid tumors in the presence of 1 anti MIF inhibitor 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrmidine 2 congeners of 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine and 3 lead and optimized lead candidate compounds identified from Examples 8 10 can be examined. 2 10MIA PaCa 2 cells can be injected subcutaneously into nude Balb c nu nu female mouse flanks. One implant can be performed per mouse and each experiment can consist of 10 mice group to be repeated once for a total of 20 mice group . Control mice can be injected with corn oil alone while test mice can be injected with the anti MIF compound in question initial compound concentration 50 mg kg i.p. every 24 hours diluted in corn oil . To obtain tumor growth curves three mutually orthogonal diameters of tumors can be measured every day using Vernier calipers and mass can be determined using the following formula Taetle et al. 1987 mass mg width m length m 2. Measured masses can be plotted as the mean relative treatment group tumor volume SEM. After control tumors reach no more than 10 of total body mass 2 gm the mice can be euthanized and a small subset from each group can be sacrificed by cervical dislocation for hypoxia and hypoxia marker determination IHC and vascularity indices as described in the section immediately below.

Compounds found to be most inhibitory as well as specific for MIF to tumor outgrowth in the pancreatic tumor xenograft model can then be tested in models of established tumors. Briefly mice can be implanted subcutaneously with 2 10MIA PaCa 2 cells and Vernier calipers can be used to measure the mass as described hereinabove. Once the tumors reach 200 mg mice can be separated into groups of 10 with equal tumor size representation of tumors in each group. Control mice can be injected with corn oil alone while test mice can be injected with the test compound 50 mg kg i.p. every 24 hours diluted in corn oil . Tumor growth curves can be established from the outset of the implantation as described above. After control tumors reach 10 of total body mass 2 gm the mice can be euthanized and a small subset from each group can be sacrificed by cervical dislocation for hypoxia and hypoxia marker determination IHC and vascularity indices as described in the section immediately below. Those compounds that are found to have maximal activity when compared to MIF deficient MIA PaCa 2 cells in these assays can be used for dose response determination for tumor growth inhibition as well as maximal tolerated dose testing.

Determining hypoxic characteristics markers and vascularity of human pancreatic xenografts in mice treated with MIF antagonists. For initial testing with 4 iodo 6 phenylpyrimidine as well as other lead and or congeneric compounds tumor hypoxic markers and tumor associated angiogenesis can be evaluated. Briefly when tumor burden has been established mice can be sacrificed by cervical dislocation because of the confounding effects of anesthesia on hypoxia. Just prior to sacrificing the mice HYPOXYPROBE 1 60 mg kg Southcot Corporation Research triangle Park North Carolina U.S.A. can be administered intravenously into a sub group of mice. A small section of representative tumors from control and anti MIF antagonist treated mice can be quick frozen in liquid nitrogen. After being weighed the xenografts can be embedded in TISSUE TEK Sakura Finetechnical Co. Ltd. Tokyo Japan and stored at 70 C. until analysis. Serial sections can be cut from each embedded specimen. One section of each specimen can be stained with H E. Additionally another serial section can undergo in situ TUNEL assay using an apoptosis in situ detection kit Wako Pure Chemical Industries Ltd. Osaka Japan according to the manufacturer s protocol. Serial sections will also be examined for blood vessel content and hypoxia by anti factor VIII anti mouse and anti pimonidazole staining respectively. Other serial sections can be examined by IHC for HIF 1 HIF 2 CA9 and GLUT 1 HIF target genes . Correlations between hypoxic regions vascularity and apoptosis can be evaluated in relation to the tumors from control mice.

Testing MIF deficient and dominant negative HIF 1 expressing pancreatic adenocarcinoma tumor outgrowth and sensitivity to anti MIF compounds. Without wishing to be bound by theory attenuating effects observed in pancreatic tumor outgrowth by MIF antagonists can potentially be due to the inhibition of MIF dependent HIF 1 stabilization and the resultant loss of hypoxic adaptation and neoangiogenesis. To further test this possibility the relative effects of potential antagonists can be tested against MIA PaCa 2 cell lines deficient in MIF expression or expressing a dominant inhibitory mutant HIF 1 . Furthermore the unchallenged comparison of control vs. MIF or HIF defective cell lines abilities to develop into solid tumors can provide important insights into whether MIF predominantly affects tumor outgrowth through modulation of HIF 1 .

The dominant negative HIF 1 d n HIF 1 mutant comprises the DNA binding and dimerization domains but lacks any transactivation or O regulatory domains Forsythe et al. 1996 . Dominant negative HIF 1 expressing cell lines can be generated by retrovirally infecting MIA PaCa 2 cells with retroviral supernatants made by transiently transfecting the Phoenix packaging cell line with pLXSN HA dnHIF 1 . The MIF deficient cell line was recently developed by stably transfecting in an MIF specific MIF siRNA . Briefly 2 10control MIF deficient clone 7 or d n HIF 1 expressing cells can be injected subcutaneously into groups of 10 nude Balb c nu nu female mice 20 gms . For initial experiments tumor outgrowth curves for each group can be assessed by mass determination as hereinabove. For lead compound studies groups of 20 mice can be injected with control MIF deficient clone 7 or d n HIF 1 expressing cells. of each group 10 mice can be injected with corn oil alone while the other can be injected with the lead compound in question 50 mg kg i.p. every 24 hours diluted in corn oil . Tumor masses can be measured every 24 hours by Vernier calipers as described in the section above. After control tumors reach 10 of total body mass 2 gm the mice can be euthanized and a small subset from each group can be sacrificed by cervical dislocation for hypoxia and hypoxia marker determination IHC and vascularity indices as described in the section above.

Maximal tolerated dosing of MIF antagonists in vivo. Because of the variability in drug sensitivities among individuals it can be desirable to have an idea of what the maximal tolerated doses and therapeutic windows are for prospective clinical pharmaceuticals. Tests on promising anti MIF lead compounds can be performed to determine their relative toxicities by performing a maximal tolerated dose MTD study. Having established that 50 mg kg is tolerated it can next be determined whether increasing doses are similarly tolerated starting first with 100 mg kg and then proceeding stepwise with 200 300 400 and finally 500 mg kg doses in small groups of mice e.g. 5 mice group . During daily intraperitoneal injections of compound for 7 days mice can be closely monitored for pain or discomfort up to 4 days after the last injection.

In summary the soluble cytokine growth factor Macrophage migration inhibitory factor MIF represents a uniquely powerful target for structure based drug design. MIF contributes to the growth motility and hypoxic adaptation of tumors and MIF inhibitory small molecules block all of these pro tumorigenic effects. These findings coupled with the fact that mice deficient in MIF develop and grow normally strongly suggest that the potent MIF antagonists disclosed herein represent a new generation of less toxic and more potent anti cancer disease therapeutics than those currently in use.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter can be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

Al Abed Y. Dabideen D. Aljabari B. Valster A. Messmer D. Ochani M. Tanovic M. Ochani K. Bacher M. Nicoletti F. Metz C. Pavlov V. A. Miller E. J. and Tracey K. J. 2005 J Biol Chem 280 36541 36544.

Bacher M. Schrader J. Thompson N. Kuschela K. Gemsa D. Waeber G. and Schlegel J. 2003 Am. J. Pathol. 162 11 17.

Bando H. Matsumoto G. Bando M. Muta M. Ogawa T. Funata N. Nishihira J. Koike M. and Toi M. 2002 Jpn. J. Cancer Res. 93 389 396.

Bemis L. Chan D. A. Finkielstein C. V. Qi L. Sutphin P. D. Chen X. Stenmark K. Giaccia A. J. and Zundel W. 2004 Genes Dev. 18 739 744.

Bendrat K. Al Abed Y. Callaway D. J. Peng T. Calandra T. Metz C. N. and Bucala R. 1997 Biochemistry 36 15356 15362.

Bernhagen J. Mitchell R. A. Calandra T. Voelter W. Cerami A. and Bucala R. 1994 Biochemistry. 33 14144 14155.

Buchler P. Reber H. A. Lavey R. S. Tomlinson J. Buchler M. W. Friess H. and Hines O. J. 2004 J. Surg. Res. 120 295 303.

Cornell W. D. Cieplak P. Bayly C. I. Gould I. R. Merz K. M. Ferguson D. M. Spellmeyer D. C. Fox T. Caldwell J. W. and Kollman P. A. 1995 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 117 5179 5197.

Cramer R. D. Patterson D. E. Clark R. D. Soltanshahi F. and Lawless M. S. 1998 Journal of Chemical Information and Computer Sciences 38 1010 1023.

del Vecchio M. T. Tripodi S. A. Arcuri F. Pergola L. Hako L. Vatti R. and Cintorino M. 2000 Prostate 45 51 57.

Dios A. Mitchell R. A. Aljabari B. Lubetsky J. O Connor K. Liao H. Senter P. D. Manogue K. R. Lolis E. Metz C. Bucala R. Callaway D. J. and Al Abed Y. 2002 J. Med. Chem. 45 2410 2416.

Eldridge M. D. Murray C. W. Auton T. R. Paolini G. V. and Mee R. P. 1997 J Comput Aided Mol Des 11 425 45.

Epstein A. C. Gleadle J. M. McNeill L. A. Hewitson K. S. O Rourke J. Mole D. R. Mukherji M. Metzen E. Wilson M. I. Dhanda A. Tian Y. M. Masson N. Hamilton D. L. Jaakkola P. Barstead R. Hodgkin J. Maxwell P. H. Pugh C. W. Schofield C. J. and Ratcliffe P. J. 2001 Cell 107 43 54.

Fingerle Rowson G. Petrenko O. Metz C. N. Forsthuber T. G. Mitchell R. Huss R. Moll U. Muller W. and Bucala R. 2003 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S. A 100 9354 9359.

Forsythe J. A. Jiang B. H. Iyer N. V. Agani F. Leung S. W. Koos R. D. and Semenza G. L. 1996 Mol. Cell. Biol 16 4604 4613.

Fujii N. Oishi S. Hiramatsu K. Araki T. Ueda S. Tamamura H. Otaka A. Kusano S. Terakubo S. Nakashima H. Broach J. A. Trent J. O. Wang Z. X. and Peiper S. C. 2003 Angew Chem Int Ed Engl 42 3251 3.

Gehlhaar D. K. Verkhivker G. M. Rejto P. A. Sherman C. J. Fogel D. B. Fogel L. J. and Freer S. T. 1995 Chem Biol 2 317 24.

Goodsell D. S. Morris G. M. and Olson A. J. 1996 . Automated docking of flexible ligands applications of AutoDock. J. Mol. Recognit. 9 1 5.

Graeven U. Rodeck U. Karpinski S. Jost M. Philippou S. and Schmiegel W. 2001 Cancer Res. 61 7282 7290.

Grunstein J. Roberts W. G. Mathieu Costello O. Hanahan D. and Johnson R. S. 1999 Cancer Res. 59 1592 1598.

Hardcastle I. R. Rowlands M. G. Houghton J. Parr I. B. Potter G. A. Jarman M. Edwards K. J. Laughton C. A. Trent J. O. and Neidle S. 1995 J. Med. Chem. 38 241 8.

Hira E. Ono T. Dhar D. K. El Assal O. N. Hishikawa Y. Yamanoi A. and Nagasue N. 2005 Cancer 103 588 598.

Kamimura A. Kamachi M. Nishihira J. Ogura S. Isobe H. Dosaka Akita H. Ogata A. Shindoh M. Ohbuchi T. and Kawakami Y. 2000 Cancer 89 334 341.

Keppler M. D. Read M. A. Perry P. J. Trent J. O. Jenkins T. C. Reszka A. P. Neidle S. and Fox K. R. 1999 Eur. J. Biochem. 263 817 25.

Kleemann R. Hausser A. Geiger G. Mischke R. Burger Kentischer A. Flieger O. Johannes F. J. Roger T. Calandra T. Kapurniotu A. Grell M. Finkelmeier D. Brunner H. and Bernhagen J. 2000 Nature 408 211 216.

Koong A. C. Denko N. C. Hudson K. M. Schindler C. Swiersz L. Koch C. Evans S. Ibrahim H. Le Q. T. Terris D. J. and Giaccia A. J. 2000a Cancer Res 60 883 887.

Koong A. C. Mehta V. K. Le Q. T. Fisher G. A. Terris D. J. Brown J. M. Bastidas A. J. and Vierra M. 2000b Int. J. Radiat. Oncol. Biol Phys. 48 919 922.

Leng L. Metz C. N. Fang Y. Xu J. Donnelly S. Baugh J. Delohery T. Chen Y. Mitchell R. A. and Bucala R. 2003 J. Exp. Med. 197 1467 1476.

Lubetsky J. B. Dios A. Han J. Aljabari B. Ruzsicska B. Mitchell R. Lolis E. and Al Abed Y. 2002 J Biol Chem 277 24976 24982.

Markert J. M. Fuller C. M. Gillespie G. Y. Bubien J. K. McLean L. A. Hong R. L. Lee K. Gullans S. R. Mapstone T. B. and Benos D. J. 2001 Physiol Genomics 5 21 33.

Matsunaga J. Sinha D. Pannell L. Santis C. Solano F. Wistow G. J. and Hearing V. J. 1999 J. Biol. Chem. 274 3268 3271.

Mitchell R. A. Liao H. Chesney J. Fingerle Rowson G. Baugh J. David J. and Bucala R. 2002 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S. A 99 345 350.

Morris G. M. Goodsell D. S. Halliday R. S. Huey R. Hart W. E. Belew R. K. and Olson A. J. 1998 J. Comp. Chem. 19 1639 1662.

Neidle S. Kelland L. R. Trent J. O. Simpson I. J. Boykin D. W. Kumar A. and Wilson W. D. 1997 Bio. Med. Chem. Lett. 7 1403 1408.

Nicoletti F. Creange A. Orlikowski D. Bolgert F. Mangano K. Metz C. Di Marco R. and Al Abed Y. 2005 J Neuroimmunol. 168 168 174.

Orita M. Yamamoto S. Katayama N. Aoki M. Takayama K. Yamagiwa Y. Seki N. Suzuki H. Kurihara H. Sakashita H. Takeuchi M. Fujita S. Yamada T. and Tanaka A. 2001 J. Med. Chem. 44 540 547.

Pearlman R. S. and Smith K. M. 1999 Abstracts of Papers of the American Chemical Society 217 U698 U698.

Perry P. J. Reszka A. P. Wood A. A. Read M. A. Gowan S. M. Dosanjh H. S. Trent J. O. Jenkins T. C. Kelland L. R. and Neidle S. 1998 J. Med. Chem. 41 4873 84.

Petrenko O. Fingerle Rowson G. Peng T. Mitchell R. A. and Metz C. N. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 11078 11085.

Priebe W. Fokt I. Przewloka T. Chaires J. B. Portugal J. and Trent J. O. 2001 Methods Enzymol 340 529 55.

Ren Y. Chan H. M. Fan J. Xie Y. Chen Y. X. Li W. Jiang G. P. Liu Q. Meinhardt A. and Tam P. K. 2006 Oncogene.

Rendon B. E. Teneng I. Zhao M. Winner M. Al Abed Y. and Mitchell R. A. 2007 . Regulation of human lung adenocarcinoma cell migration and invasion by MIF Role of Rac1 GTPase and lipid raft assembly. In revision .

Rosengren E. Aman P. Thelin S. Hansson C. Ahlfors S. Bjork P. Jacobsson L. and Rorsman H. 1997 FEBS Lett. 417 85 88.

Rosengren E. Bucala R. Aman P. Jacobsson L. Odh G. Metz C. N. and Rorsman H. 1996 Mol. Med. 2 143 149.

Senter P. D. Al Abed Y. Metz C. N. Benigni F. Mitchell R. A. Chesney J. Han J. Gartner C. G. Nelson S. D. Todaro G. J. and Bucala R. 2002 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A 99 144 149.

Shi X. Leng L. Wang T. Wang W. Du X. Li J. McDonald C. Chen Z. Murphy J. W. Lolis E. Noble P. Knudson W. and Bucala R. 2006 Immunity. 25 595 606.

Shimizu T. Abe R. Nakamura H. Ohkawara A. Suzuki M. and Nishihira J. 1999 Biophys. Res. Commun. 264 751 758.

Singh S. Powell D. W. Rane M. J. Millard T. H. Trent J. O. Pierce W. M. Klein J. B. Machesky L. M. and McLeish K. R. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 36410 7.

Sun B. Nishihira J. Yoshiki T. Kondo M. Sato Y. Sasaki F. and Todo S. 2005 Clin. Cancer Res. 11 1050 1058.

Takahashi N. Nishihira J. Sato Y. Kondo M. Ogawa H. Ohshima T. Une Y. and Todo S. 1998 Mol. Med. 4 707 714.

Tamamura H. Hiramatsu K. Kusano S. Terakubo S. Yamamoto N. Trent J. O. Wang Z. Peiper S. C. Nakashima H. Otaka A. and Fujii N. 2003a Org Biomol Chem 1 3656 62.

Tamamura H. Hiramatsu K. Mizumoto M. Ueda S. Kusano S. Terakubo S. Akamatsu M. Yamamoto N. Trent J. O. Wang Z. Peiper S. C. Nakashima H. Otaka A. and Fujii N. 2003b Org Biomol Chem 1 3663 9.

Tamamura H. Mizumoto M. Hiramatsu K. Kusano S. Terakubo S. Yamamoto N. Trent J. O. Wang Z. Peiper S. C. Nakashima H. Otaka A. and Fujii N. 2004 Org Biomol Chem 2 1255 7.

Taylor A. B. Johnson W. H. Jr. Czerwinski R. M. Li H. S. Hackert M. L. and Whitman C. P. 1999 Biochemistry 38 7444 7452.

Thorpe D. S. Edith Chan A. W. Binnie A. Chen L. C. Robinson A. Spoonamore J. Rodwell D. Wade S. Wilson S. Ackerman Berrier M. Yeoman H. Walle S. Wu Q. and Wertman K. F. 1999 Biochem Biophys Res Commun 266 62 5.

Trent J. O. and Neidle S. 1996 . Molecular Modeling of Drug DNA Interactions Facts or Fantasies. In Advances in Sequence specific agents L. Hurley ed. JAI Press Inc pp. 29 58.

Trent J. O. Clark G. R. Kumar A. Wilson W. D. Boykin D. W. Hall J. E. Tidwell R. R. Blagburn B. L. and Neidle S. 1996 J Med Chem 39 4554 62.

Trent J. O. Wang Z. X. Murray J. L. Shao W. Tamamura H. Fujii N. and Peiper S. C. 2003 J Biol Chem 278 47136 44.

Tsuzuki Y. Fukumura D. Oosthuyse B. Koike C. Carmeliet P. and Jain R. K. 2000 Cancer Res. 60 6248 6252.

Wadgaonkar R. Dudek S. M. Zaiman A. L. Linz McGillem L. Verin A. D. Nurmukhambetova S. Romer L. H. and Garcia J. G. 2005 J Cell Biochem. 95 849 858.

Wang G. T. Wang S. Gentles R. Sowin T. Leitza S. Reilly E. B. and von Geldern T. W. 2005 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 15 195 201.

Wilson J. M. Coletta P. L. Cuthbert R. J. Scott N. MacLennan K. Hawcroft G. Leng L. Lubetsky J. B. Jin K. K. Lolis E. Medina F. Brieva J. A. Poulsom R. Markham A. F. Bucala R. and Hull M. A. 2005 Gastroenterology 129 1485 1503.

Zundel W. Schindler C. Haas Kogan D. Koong A. Kaper F. Chen E. Gottschalk A. R. Ryan H. E. Johnson R. S. Jefferson A. B. Stokoe D. and Giaccia A. J. 2000 Genes Dev. 14 391 396.

