---

title: Chemical/biological hose test adapter
abstract: The invention relates to devices and methods for adapting a standard protective mask test apparatus to perform leak testing of a mask air hose assembly as an independent equipment component, i.e., independent of the mask-hose system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07546759&OS=07546759&RS=07546759
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07546759
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070320
---
The present invention relates generally to leak testing of mask air hose assemblies and more particularly to devices and methods for adapting a standard mask testing apparatus to perform leak testing of mask air hose assemblies independently of the mask systems to which they may be attached.

A number of protective masks are equipped with air hose assemblies to enable the mask to be attached to a separable filter canister an external air supply or a portable air purification system. For example the M40A1 M42A1 Joint Forces CB protective masks include standard North American Treaty Organization NATO threaded fittings on one or both sides of the mask to enable the wearer to attach a hose assembly or mount a NATO compatible canister as needed. The Joint Service Mask Leakage Tester JSMLT is a portable device used to test the serviceability and proper fit of chemical and biological CB protective masks. The JSMLT is designed to test a large number of masks for leaks to a very high degree of certainty as rapidly and reliably as possible. Because such testing frequently may be conducted in the field by operators under duress and or having limited experience with the test equipment it is important that leak testing devices and procedures be as simple and as reliable as possible. While the JSMLT and similar protective mask test devices are able to perform a number of tests on a variety of different mask systems such mask test devices lack the capability to test removable air hose assemblies as independent equipment components. Instead air hose assemblies must be tested by a mask hose system test in which the hose remains attached to the mask. Testing the hose as part of the mask hose system makes it difficult to isolate air hose faults as a source of a leak. These test deficiencies may result in premature disposal of mask systems decreased confidence in test procedures and decreased confidence in protective mask systems. Such unreliable testing also invariably increases the risk that defective air hose assemblies may be returned to service.

In general in one aspect an embodiment of a device for testing an air hose assembly for a chemical biological mask includes an adapter for testing a hose with a mask test apparatus as an independent component part. The adapter provides a first end with an opening and a second end with an opening. The first end has a threaded receptacle to accept a standard male NATO threaded hose coupling and the second end provides a stem that extends outwardly from the receptacle and is dimensioned for insertion and substantially airtight coupling into a headform pneumatic test port of the mask test apparatus. The stem of the hose test adapter preferably extends angularly from the axis of rotation of the receptacle at an angle of approximately 45 degrees. In another aspect the body of the hose test adapter is of unitary construction and may be formed by an injection molding process from Zytel 77G33L or similar.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings. The drawings forms a part of this invention disclosure and show by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. The invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied in methods and devices. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

Embodiments of hose test adapters according to the present invention are designed for use in connection with protective mask leak test apparatus such as the Joint Forces TDA 99M or TDA 99B or similar. A simplified schematic of a portable protective mask leakage test apparatus is shown in . Mask test apparatus provides leak and serviceability testing of a variety of sizes and types of negative pressure Chemical Biological and Radiological protective masks without requiring an operator to actually don the mask. Leak testing of a mask essentially involves removing the gas canister from the mask plugging the mask canister port and outlet valve and affixing the mask by its own harness to points of attachment on test apparatus so that it fits snugly over a face shaped headform . An inflatable bladder of headform engages the faceseal on the mask and simulates the seal characteristics of the face of a user. If the mask is equipped with an air hose the canister is removed from the hose end and the hose end is attached to a hose test port on the test apparatus via a threaded adapter . After the mask has been thusly secured a slight vacuum is applied through headform to the interior of the mask. Test apparatus then monitors for leaks in the mask and any attached hose while the operator performs a number of test challenges. However since the entire mask hose system must be tested isolating faults or leaks in the air hose assembly is very difficult.

Mask test apparatus is equipped with two headforms to accommodate masks of different sizes. The headforms are push fit mounted to a headform mounting pedestal on test apparatus . Pedestal and headform are joined at an interface that includes four push fit o ring sealed pressure couplings not shown . One such pressure coupling communicates a source of negative air pressure to a head test port in the top of headform . Mask test apparatus delivers negative air pressure to the mask under test through head test port while the mask is probed for leaks.

Second end of hose test adapter provides a tubular stem that extends outwardly from the back of receptacle and terminates at a tip that is preferably chamfered to facilitate insertion of stem into head test port . The external diameter of stem is preferably 0.710 inches dimensioned for snug push fit coupling into head test port . The internal diameter of stem is at least 0.325 inches throughout to provide unrestricted air flow through the hose to be tested. A pair of o rings seals or similar circumferential pneumatic seals are disposed in 0.12 inch radial grooves near tip . The first groove is located 0.15 inches from tip and the second 0.55 from tip . While a single o ring seal may be employed dual o ring seals provide an added measure of assurance that air will not leak from head test port . A radial flange approximately 0.25 inch thick and 0.975 inch in diameter is positioned 0.710 inch from tip to prevent over insertion of stem into head test port . Stem extends from the axis of rotation of receptacle at an angle of approximately 45 degrees so that air hose is oriented at approximately the same angle as when it is attached to a mask.

The body of hose test adapter is of unitary construction and preferably formed by an injection molding process from Zytel 77G33L or similar hard plastic material.

Operation of a preferred embodiment according to the present invention is substantially as follows. Headform is mounted to mask test apparatus . Chamfered end of stem of hose test adapter is inserted into head test port of headform . Male NATO threaded mask end fitting of air hose assembly is threaded securely into receptacle of hose test adapter . The canister end fitting of air hose assembly is connected via threaded adapter into hose test port . As in a mask test a predetermined negative air pressure is delivered by mask test apparatus to bead test port . Test apparatus then monitors for leaks in air hose assembly while the operator performs a number of test challenges.

As has been shown embodiments according to the present invention provide effective and efficient systems methods and devices for adapting a standard mask testing apparatus to perform leak testing of mask air hose assemblies independently of the mask systems to which they may be attached. Embodiments according to the present invention simplify detection and isolation of mask air hose assembly leaks and increase confidence in test procedures and in protective mask systems generally. Various modifications to the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the invention which is limited only by the following claims.

