---

title: Universal non-volatile support device for supporting reconfigurable processing systems
abstract: A universal support device for supporting a reconfigurable electronics device is disclosed. The universal support device includes an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) module coupled to multiple non-volatile memory devices. The ASIC module is capable of interfacing with an external reconfigurable electronics device via a set of load/read-back interface lines and sense mitigation lines. The load/read-back interface lines are capable of being programmed to provide a parallel or a serial load and/or store protocols. The sense mitigation line can sense conditions that indicate a single-event functional interrupt or a radiation-induced event occurred within the reconfigurable electronics device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07800403&OS=07800403&RS=07800403
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 07800403
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070606
---
The present application claims benefit of priority to the previously filed U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 811 612 entitled Universal non volatile support device for RAM based reconfigurable electronics filed on Jun. 7 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention was made with United States Government support under contract number FA9453 05 C 0222 awarded by the United States Air Force. The United States Government has certain rights in the present invention.

The present invention relates to electronic devices in general and in particular to field programmable gate arrays. Still more particularly the present invention relates to a universal non volatile support device for supporting reconfigurable processing systems.

Field programmable gate arrays FPGAs are commonly utilized to demonstrate or prove out a conceptual data processing system. Offering similar densities and performance as application specific integrated circuits ASICs FPGAs are typically a driver for the latest technology. There are two types of FPGAs namely fuse based FPGAs and memory based FPGAs. Fuse based FPGAs can only be written once after which no change can be made to the logic. Memory based FPGAs on the other hand have changeable logic but need to be reloaded each time. Thus memory based FPGAs are more suitable for implementing reconfigurable processing systems.

A reconfigurable processing system typically includes multiple reconfigurable FPGA building blocks that are capable of being morphed into any required processing capability after the reconfigurable processing system has been assembled. Thus reconfigurable processing systems can play a major role in responsive spacecraft fault tolerant spacecraft and multi mission spacecraft because the functionalities of reconfigurable processing systems can be easily modified for specific needs even after a spacecraft has been launched into space.

Reconfigurable processing systems are typically put together with off the shelf pre defined components. As FPGAs become more widespread with improving capabilities reconfigurable computing elements RCEs formed by FPGAs will soon be employed throughout reconfigurable processing systems both as stand alone elements and as embedded elements. Many of the RCEs share similar reconfigurable enabling technologies however rather than one RCE configuration fits all there are specializations in each application area that best fit different types of RCEs.

The present disclosure provides a universal non volatile support device for supporting random access memory based reconfigurable processing systems and other types of reconfigurable electronics such as field programmable analog arrays.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a universal support device for supporting a reconfigurable electronics device includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC module coupled to multiple non volatile memory devices. The ASIC module is capable of interfacing with an external reconfigurable electronics device via a set of load read back interface lines and sense mitigation lines. The load read back interface lines are capable of being programmed to provide a parallel or a serial load and or store protocols. The sense mitigation lines can sense conditions that indicate a single event functional interrupt or a radiation induced event occurred within the reconfigurable electronics device.

All features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent in the following detailed written description.

Referring now to the drawings and in particular to there is depicted a block diagram of a universal reconfigurable electronics support device URESD in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown an URESD includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC module and a non volatile memory array having non volatile memory devices An interface to non volatile memory devices is performed via address control and data lines . ASIC module may be implemented in any field programmable electronics such as fused based field programmable gate arrays FPGAs .

URESD is scalable and may provide an interface to additional non volatile memory devices such as non volatile memory devices if such non volatile memory devices are needed for one or more configuration loads to support a specific level of reconfigurable electronics. An interface to non volatile memory devices is performed via address control and data lines . Additional address lines can be provided for future growth.

When URESD is intended to be used in single event upset SEU susceptible environment such as space then all components within URESD need to be manufactured with radiation hardened technologies. In addition error correcting codes ECCs may be used in redundant bits if SEUs are expected in non volatile memory devices as well as non volatile memory devices 

URESD can be interfaced to a system memory bridge module via address control and data lines and or a serial line utilizing a serial protocol such as Joint Testing Application Group JTAG . URESD may initiate transfers to system memory bridge module using an interface such as peripheral component interface PCI parallel or SpaceWire serial or URESD may operate as a slave to system memory bridge module only responding to operations. URESD also has the ability to receive or to provide status and interrupts back to system memory bridge module via a status interrupt line .

URESD can be interfaced to a reconfigurable electronics device via a set of load read back interface lines that may be programmed to provide a variety of parallel or serial load or store protocols spanning the signal set. In addition sense mitigation lines may be used to sense conditions that indicate a signal event functional interrupt SEFI or other radiation induced event has occurred within reconfigurable electronics device . Load read back interface lines along with sense mitigation lines are used to load read back configuration sense radiation induced events reset reconfigurable electronics device and to fix any bits in error. URESD may read its configuration information either from some subset of interface lines and and or from its internal non volatile memory array to share enable sets of pins set and or change their functions or pin widths.

With reference now to there is depicted a detailed block diagram of ASIC module from in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown ASIC module includes a configuration controller core a configuration registers internal memory core a reconfigurable electronics configuration mitigation core an attached memory controller core an external memory controller core a bus interface core a serial interface core and a clock and timing core . Configuration controller core is initially activated after power up in order to make sure that all configuration registers in each core as well as internal memory core are loaded with their default non volatile values. External lines may be used to direct external memory controller core to choose if more than one configuration memory exists. Such configurations are either loaded from an on chip non volatile memory within internal memory core or from a small pre defined section of URESD memory through attached memory controller core .

External memory controller core may interface to one or more external system memory. Configuration registers within the various cores and internal memory core indicate interface sizes and protocols speed of interfaces parallel or serial loading of reconfigurable electronics devices. They also indicate their width if parallel the size of blocks to check before correction the amount and location of memory and operations to be performed upon power up the configuration image number the sequencing registers along with error detection and correction.

After ASIC module has been configured reconfigurable electronic device from may be controlled automatically or on command from ASIC module . Configuration controller core directs configuration mitigation core to fetch a configuration from internal non volatile memories such as non volatile memory array from and load the configuration into reconfigurable electronics device .

After the configuration has been loaded configuration controller core directs configuration mitigation core to enable the function of the volatile reconfigurable electronics device and then begins reading back its configuration and checking the configuration with what is stored in internal or external memory either through direct comparisons of the data or through comparisons of codes covering the data. If a mismatch is found configuration mitigation core then sends an interrupt to an external processor through status interrupt line and to configuration controller core to complete its current block check and then configuration controller core directs configuration mitigation core to reload the block and recheck the configuration. Configuration mitigation core can also be configured to stop reload the block and then resume operation. If the configuration is good configuration mitigation core sends an all good status signal to configuration controller mole that in turn passes it to system memory bridge module from . Status pins memory or registers indicating the device or block being repaired will also be maintained for readout or polling.

Non volatile attached memory controller core and external memory controller cores read or write non volatile or volatile memory assets to URESD or other external devices as directed by the other controllers. External memory controller core provides enough drive for low latency access to external memories.

In a slave mode bus interface core and serial interface core simply responds to read and write accesses from system memory bridge module and then directs the data in or out of the appropriate element in the support chip or non volatile memory. In a master mode bus interface core and serial interface core pass data back to system memory bridge module as directed by configuration controller core . Clock and timing core manages all timing between various scores within URESD module and responds to resets from ASIC module . The various cores are preferably interconnected via an on chip bus that can be a shared bus structure or a cross bar switch.

Referring now to there is illustrated a high level logic flow diagram of a method for performing a sequencing within URESD in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Starting at block the configuration for URESD is read from a configuration memory and a specific personalization is loaded as shown in block . Once personalized URESD is not required to be loaded every time although each personalization loading can eliminate any latent errors caused by SEUs. SEU errors may also be eliminated through the usage of ECCs implemented on personalization registers or flagged for reload by error detection codes or redundancy. Based on the loaded personalization various interfaces within URESD may be set up to match the type of reconfigurable electronics device to which URESD is connected such as reconfigurable electronics device from as depicted block . The setting up of various interfaces may include the change of number of bits the frequency of transmission handshake polarity or timing etc.

Next certain counters of the reconfigurable electronics device are initialized as shown in block . Within the reconfigurable electronics device data are preferably maintained in blocks directories or packets and counters are initialized for each block as depicted in block . After a block has been initialized the actual data to be loaded or compared can be sequenced according to sequencing registers based on each block definition. Each field type is processed as configured accordingly as shown in block . Some examples of possible field types are shown in .

End block is used to differentiate one block of processing from another. If end block is the last block of processing for the reconfigurable electronics device end device is next sequenced otherwise the sequence jumps back to the start block . End device cleans up the reconfigurable electronics device handling and if it is the last reconfigurable electronics device cleanup interface is executed as shown in block . Otherwise the process can return to block for a next reconfigurable electronics device. The status of such operation is stored as shown in block and the sequence is completed as depicted in block . At such time either another sequence may be started or URESD may wait for a command from system memory bridge module from .

With reference now to there is depicted a block diagram of field types examples in a block within a reconfigurable electronics device in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. As shown process Header represents any fixed codes that need to be sent to a reconfigurable device. Process Address sends any address fields to the reconfigurable device in the output stream and including shifting and serializing. Process Address increments by some fixed value after the current address is sent. Process Data fetches the next packet or block of data and send it to the reconfigurable device. Compare Data reads a packet or block of data from the reconfigurable device and compares it to the value stored in configuration memory or it compares a checksum of each data element. Process Checksum receives a checksum and compares it to the checksum stored in memory or to the last block or packet of data read from configuration memory. Process Footer sends a fixed code to the reconfigurable device. Process Count sends the current count of data to the reconfigurable device. Process Handshake activates external handshake signals to the reconfigurable device for fixed periods or on a permanent basis. Wait on Handshake waits on a change or level on an external signal from the reconfigurable device before continuing. Process Error checks for an error and if one is found sets the appropriate registers and input outputs to report an error and may also change certain count or sequence states to either restart a sequence or start another. Process Decomposition is used to decompress a packet or block of data and send it to the reconfigurable device according to a compression algorithm.

As has been described the present invention provides a universal support devices for supporting reconfigurable electronics devices. The support device of the present invention can be useful in any space system that uses reconfigurable electronics devices having an external configuration memory to provide savings in size power and developmental costs and in part due to reuse and programming of a single developed devices instead of continual new instantiations and the combining of multiple functions into a single device. The support device of the present invention can also be used in commercial processing systems that require non volatile memory in their reconfigurable electronics devices.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

