---

title: Memory having count detection circuitry for detecting access frequency
abstract: A memory capable of suppressing increase in circuit size, reduction in a period for an original access and increase in power consumption while suppressing an imprint can be obtained. The memory includes a first count detection circuit for detecting an access frequency with respect to memory cells, a second count detection circuit for detecting an access frequency of each of memory cell blocks and a third count detection circuit detecting a no-access frequency resulting in an imprint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07460425&OS=07460425&RS=07460425
owner: Sanyo Electric co., Ltd.
number: 07460425
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20070123
---
The present invention relates to a memory and more particularly it relates to a memory refreshing stored data.

A ferroelectric memory FeRAM ferroelectric random access memory is generally known as an exemplary nonvolatile memory. The ferroelectric memory utilizes pseudo capacitance change responsive to the direction of polarization of a ferroelectric substance as a memory element. The ferroelectric memory is exceedingly excellent in high data rewriting rate and low power consumption as compared with a flash memory being a typical example of a conventional nonvolatile memory and is expected as a next generation nonvolatile memory.

In the ferroelectric memory however when leaving the ferroelectric memory in which data is written for a long time a hysteresis curve is shifted in a positive or negative direction horizontal direction whereby an imprint in which a quantity of polarization is gradually reduced over time disadvantageously occurs as a characteristic of the ferroelectric substance. Therefore when the imprint occurs the quantity of the polarization written in the ferroelectric memory as data is reduced over time. Thus when the quantity of the polarization is reduced to not more than a quantity necessary for reading data the ferroelectric memory can not disadvantageously function as a memory.

Japanese Patent Laying Open No. 10 162588 1998 discloses a memory capable of suppressing an imprint. This memory measures time by a timer accesses at least all memory cells in which data is written upon a lapse of a prescribed time and writes data having an opposite polarity to the data held. Thereafter original data is rewritten again whereby an imprint is suppressed.

The memory disclosed in Japanese Patent Laying Open No. 10 162588 1998 however must be disadvantageously provided with the timer for performing a measurement for a long time in order to measure the time of access for preventing an imprint with respect to the memory cells. Therefore circuit size is disadvantageously increased. Additionally the access must be performed with respect to the all memory cells each prescribed time measured by the timer. Thus a period for an original access of the memory is disadvantageously shortened and power consumption of the memory is disadvantageously increased.

The present invention has been proposed in order to solve the aforementioned problem and an object of the present invention is to provide a memory capable of suppressing increase in circuit size reduction in a period for an original access and increase in power consumption while suppressing an imprint.

A memory according to an aspect of the present invention comprises a plurality of memory cell blocks each including a plurality of memory cells a refresh control circuit for performing a read operation and a rewrite operation with respect to the memory cells a first count detection circuit for detecting an access frequency with respect to the memory cells a second count detection circuit for detecting an access frequency of each memory cell block and a third count detection circuit detecting a frequency in which the sum of access frequencies of each memory cell block counted by the second count detection circuit has not reached a prescribed frequency when the first count detection circuit detects that the sum of access frequencies with respect to the memory cells reaches a prescribed frequency.

As hereinabove described the memory according to the aspect of the present invention comprises the third count detection circuit detecting the frequency in which the sum of the access frequencies of each memory cell block counted by the second count detection circuit has not reached the prescribed frequency when the first count detection circuit detects that the sum of the access frequencies with respect to the memory cells reaches the prescribed frequency whereby the first count detection circuit and the second count detection circuit can be used as not only a counting circuit of the access frequency resulting in a so called disturbance in which data is lost due to reduced a quantity of polarization resulting from application of a prescribed voltage to the memory cells connected to word lines other than a selected word line but also a counting circuit of a no access frequency resulting in an imprint together with the third count detection circuit. Therefore the first count detection circuit and the second count detection circuit can be used as both the counting circuit of the access frequency resulting in a disturbance and the counting circuit of the no access frequency resulting in an imprint. Thus the third count detection circuit detecting the frequency in which the sum of the access frequencies of each memory cell block counted by the second count detection circuit has not reached the prescribed frequency is provided whereby the no access frequency resulting in an imprint can be counted. Consequently increase in circuit size can be suppressed dissimilarly to a case where a timer performing a measurement for a long time in order to measure a period during which the imprint occurs. The third count detection circuit is so formed as to detect the frequency in which the sum of the access frequencies counted by the second count detection circuit detecting the access frequency of each memory cell block has not reached the prescribed frequency. Therefore in a case where the frequency counted by the third count detection circuit reaches the prescribed frequency a corresponding memory cell block is not accessed for a long time. Thus when the frequency counted by the third count detection circuit reaches the prescribed frequency the refresh operation including the read operation and the rewrite operation is performed with respect to the memory cells of the corresponding memory cell block whereby an imprint can be suppressed. The third count detection circuit is so formed as to detect the frequency in which the sum of the access frequencies of each memory cell block has not reached the prescribed frequency. Therefore when the frequency counted by the third count detection circuit reaches the prescribed frequency the refresh operation including the read operation and the rewrite operation is performed with respect to only the memory cells of the corresponding memory cell block. Thus reduction in a period for an original access can be suppressed and increase in power consumption can be suppressed as compared with a case where the refresh operation including the read operation and the rewrite operation is preformed with respect to the memory cells.

In the memory according to the aforementioned aspect the refresh control circuit preferably performs a first refresh operation including a first read operation and a first rewrite operation with respect to the memory cells included in at least one of the memory cell blocks when the sum of frequencies counted by the third count detection circuit reaches a prescribed frequency. According to this structure in a case where the refresh operation for suppressing a disturbance is performed when the sum of the access frequency counted by the second count detection circuit reaches the prescribed frequency and the first refresh operation for suppressing an imprint is performed when the sum of the access frequency counted by the third count detection circuit reaches the prescribed frequency the sum of the access frequency counted by the third count detection circuit does not reach the prescribed frequency when the sum of the frequency counted by the second count detection circuit reach the prescribed frequency. Therefore the refresh operation for suppressing a disturbance is performed with respect to the memory cells while the first refresh operation for suppressing an imprint is not performed. Thus it is possible not to perform the first refresh operation for suppressing an imprint with respect to the memory cells to which the refresh operation for suppressing a disturbance has been performed whereby reduction in a period for an original access of the memory can be suppressed and power consumption can be further suppressed.

In this case when the first refresh operation is performed with respect to the memory cells data having an opposite polarity to data held in the memory cells is preferably written in the memory cells and thereafter preferably rewritten to the data held in the memory cells. This first refresh operation is performed whereby the memory cells in which the same data is written are not left for a long time. Thus an imprint in which a quantity of polarization is gradually reduced over time by leaving the memory cells in which the data are written for a long time can be easily suppressed.

In the aforementioned memory performing the first refresh operation with respect to the memory cells a first voltage pulse giving an electric field in a first direction and a second voltage pulse giving an electric field in a second direction opposite to the first direction are preferably applied to the memory cell selected by the same number of times in the first refresh operation respectively. According to this structure the pulses opposite to each other in polarity are applied to the selected memory cell by the same number of times respectively whereby a disturbance can be suppressed and an imprint in which a hysteresis curve is shifted in a positive or negative direction horizontal direction by applying a voltage pulse having the same polarity a plurality of times can be suppressed.

In the aforementioned memory performing the first refresh operation with respect to the memory cells the refresh control circuit preferably performs a second refresh operation including a second read operation and a second rewrite operation with respect to the memory cells included in at least one of the memory cell blocks when the sum of frequencies counted by the second count detection circuit reaches a prescribed frequency in addition to the first refresh operation. According to this structure in a case where the first refresh operation is the refresh operation for suppressing an imprint and the second refresh operation is the refresh operation for suppressing a disturbance the refresh control circuit can easily selectively perform the first refresh operation for suppressing an imprint or the second refresh operation for suppressing a disturbance.

In the aforementioned memory performing the first refresh operation with respect to the memory cells the first refresh operation is preferably a refresh operation for preventing an imprint and the first refresh operation preferably further includes an additional cycle in which a voltage pulse having the same value as and an opposite polarity to a voltage pulse applied to the selected memory cell is applied to the selected memory cell in the first read operation. According to this structure the sum of voltages applied to the selected memory cell can be easily set to 0 upon termination of the first read operation and the additional cycle.

In this case the first rewrite operation preferably includes a first rewrite and a second rewrite in which voltage pulses opposite to each other in polarity are applied to the selected memory cell. According to this structure also in the first write operation constituted by the first rewrite and the second rewrite the sum of voltages applied to the selected memory cell can be set to 0 . Thus the sum of voltages applied to the selected memory cell can be set to 0 in a cycle of the first refresh operation constituted by the first read operation the additional cycle the first rewrite and the second rewrite.

In the aforementioned memory in which the first rewrite operation includes the first rewrite and the second rewrite the selected memory cell preferably stores first data or second data and in a case where the first data is stored in the selected memory cell the first data is preferably rewritten in the additional cycle after the second data different from the first data is written in the first read operation and thereafter the first rewrite and the second rewrite are preferably performed at a voltage pulse not destroying the first data. According to this structure the first refresh operation can be easily performed and the first data can be easily rewritten in the selected memory cell.

In the aforementioned memory performing the first rewrite and the second rewrite with respect to the memory cells the selected memory cell preferably stores first data or second data and in a case where the second data is stored in the selected memory cell the first data is preferably written in the additional cycle after the second data is rewritten in the first read operation and thereafter the second data is preferably rewritten in the second rewrite after the first data is rewritten in the first rewrite. According to this structure the first refresh operation can be easily performed and the second data can be easily rewritten in the selected memory cell.

In the aforementioned memory performing the second refresh operation with respect to the memory cells the second refresh operation is preferably a refresh operation for preventing a disturbance the second rewrite operation of the second refresh operation preferably includes a third rewrite and a fourth rewrite and voltages opposite to each other in polarity are preferably applied to the memory cells nonselected in the third rewrite and the fourth rewrite respectively. According to this structure a disturbance phenomenon in the nonselected memory cells can be easily prevented.

In this case no voltage pulse is preferably applied to the nonselected memory cells in the second read operation of the second refresh operation. According to this structure the sum of voltages applied to the nonselected memory cell can be easily set to 0 in a cycle of the second refresh operation constituted by the second read operation the third rewrite and the fourth rewrite.

In the aforementioned memory performing the first refresh operation with respect to the memory cells the third count detection circuit is used as a counting circuit of a no access frequency resulting in an imprint. According to this structure the no access frequency resulting in an imprint can be easily detected.

In this case the refresh control circuit may include an imprint prevention control circuit preventing the imprint by controlling the first refresh operation.

In the memory in which the aforementioned refresh control circuit controls the first refresh operation the imprint prevention control circuit preferably has a function of counting up the third count detection circuit of the memory cell block in which the second count detection circuit does not reach a prescribed access frequency and outputting a signal requesting the first refresh operation in a case where the third count detection circuit reaches a prescribed access frequency. According to this structure in a case where the third count detection circuit reaches the prescribed access frequency the first refresh operation for preventing an imprint can be easily performed.

In the aforementioned memory performing the second refresh operation with respect to the memory cells the first count detection circuit and the second count detection circuit are preferably used as a counting circuit of an access frequency resulting in a disturbance. According to this structure the access frequency with respect to the memory cells and the access frequency of each memory cell block can be detected whereby the second refresh operation can be performed when reaching the prescribed access frequency resulting in a disturbance.

In this case the refresh control circuit may include a disturbance prevention control circuit preventing a disturbance by controlling the second refresh operation.

In the memory in which the aforementioned refresh control circuit controls the second refresh operation the disturbance prevention control circuit preferably has a function of counting up the second count detection circuit and outputting a signal requesting the second refresh operation in a case where the second count detection circuit reaches a prescribed access frequency when the first count detection circuit reaches a prescribed access frequency. According to this structure in a case where the second count detection circuit reaches the prescribed access frequency when the first count detection circuit reaches the prescribed access frequency the second refresh operation for preventing a disturbance can be easily performed.

The foregoing and other objects features aspects and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the present invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

An Embodiment of the present invention will be hereinafter described with reference to the drawings. The following embodiment is described with reference to a simple matrix ferroelectric memory having memory cells formed by only single ferroelectric capacitors arranged on the intersectional positions between corresponding word lines and corresponding bit lines respectively.

With reference to a structure of the simple matrix ferroelectric memory according to the embodiment of the present invention will be now described.

The simple matrix ferroelectric memory according to the embodiment comprises a memory cell array an operation control circuit a row address buffer a row decoder a second counter a third counter a write amplifier a read amplifier an input buffer an output buffer a column address buffer a column decoder a word line source driver a voltage generation circuit a sense amplifier and a bit line source driver .

As shown in 128 word lines WL and 128 bit lines BL for example are arranged on the memory cell array to intersect with each other while memory cells formed by only single ferroelectric capacitors are arranged on the intersectional positions between the word lines WL and the bit lines BL in the form of a matrix. The ferroelectric capacitors include the corresponding word lines WL the corresponding bit lines BL and ferroelectric films not shown arranged between the word lines WL and the bit lines BL. The memory cell array is constituted by four memory cell blocks and each including a plurality of 32 word lines WL as shown in . The memory cell blocks and are provided with second counters and third counters for the memory cell blocks and respectively. The second counters and the third counters are examples of second count detection circuit and third count detection circuit in the present invention respectively. The word lines WL see of the memory cell blocks and are connected to the row decoder . The row address buffer is connected to the row decoder .

The operation control circuit includes an external access detection circuit a first counter a disturbance prevention control circuit an access control circuit an imprint prevention control circuit as shown in .

The external access detection circuit has a function of outputting an external access detection pulse CMD to the first counter and the access control circuit when receiving an external clock ECLK through an external access operation. The external access detection circuit also receives a command address including an external address signal corresponding to an internal address signal for an internal access operation. The first counter reset upon power supply has a function of counting up an external access frequency by 1 every time the same receives the external access detection pulse CMD from the external access detection circuit and outputting the resulting external access frequency to the disturbance prevention control circuit . The first counter is an example of the first count detection circuit in the present invention.

The disturbance prevention control circuit has a function of counting up by 1 a frequency of the second counter corresponding to the memory cell block or accessed among these memory cell blocks and . The disturbance prevention control circuit has a function of monitoring the second counters and when the external access frequency of the first counter reaches a prescribed frequency and each frequency of the second counters corresponding to the memory cell blocks and respectively reaches a prescribed frequency the disturbance prevention control circuit has a function of outputting a signal requesting a disturbance preventing refresh operation to the access control circuit in order to suppress the disturbance of the memory cells constituting the relevant memory cell block and . The disturbance preventing refresh operation is an example of the second refresh operation in the present invention.

When the sum of the external access frequencies with respect to all memory cells by the first counter reaches a prescribed frequency and the sum of the access frequencies of each of the memory cell blocks and counted by the second counters respectively does not reach a prescribed frequency the disturbance prevention control circuit has a function of outputting a signal to the imprint prevention control circuit .

According to this embodiment there are provided the third counters a frequency of each of which is counted up by 1 by the imprint prevention control circuit when a signal is inputted to the imprint prevention control circuit because of which the sum of the access frequencies of each of the memory cell blocks and counted by the second counters respectively does not reach a prescribed frequency when the sum of the external access frequencies with respect to all memory cells by the first counter reaches a prescribed frequency. When a frequency of each third counter reaches a prescribed frequency the third counter has a function of outputting a signal requesting an imprint preventing refresh operation to the imprint prevention control circuit in order to suppress an imprint of the memory cells constituting the relevant memory cell blocks and . The imprint preventing refresh operation is an example of the first refresh operation in the present invention.

A signal from the disturbance prevention control circuit is inputted whereby the imprint prevention control circuit has a function of counting up by 1 frequencies of the third counters corresponding to the memory cell blocks and in which a frequency of the corresponding second counter does not reach a prescribed frequency. The imprint prevention control circuit has a function of monitoring the third counters and of outputting a signal requesting an imprint preventing refresh operation to the access control circuit in order that when the frequencies of the third counters reach a prescribed frequency an imprint of the memory cells constituting the relevant memory cell blocks land is suppressed.

The access control circuit further has a function of outputting a row address signal of an internal address signal for an internal access operation to the row address buffer and outputting a column address signal of the internal address signal to the column address buffer . When signals requesting the disturbance preventing refresh operation and the imprint preventing refresh operation are outputted from the disturbance prevention control circuit and the imprint prevention control circuit respectively the access control circuit further has a function of outputting signals performing the disturbance preventing refresh operation and the imprint preventing refresh operation to the row decoder through the row address buffer see respectively.

As shown in the row address buffer is provided for supplying the row address signal transmitted from the operation control circuit access control circuit to the decoder . The row decoder is so formed as to activate the word line WL corresponding to a prescribed row address signal supplied from the row address buffer .

The write amplifier and the read amplifier are connected to the input buffer and the output buffer respectively. The column decoder is connected to the column address buffer . The word line source driver is connected to the row decoder . The voltage generation circuit and the operation control circuit are connected to the word line source driver . The column decoder is connected to the bit lines BL of the memory cell array through the sense amplifier . The write amplifier the read amplifier and the bit line source driver are connected to the sense amplifier while the voltage generation circuit is connected to the bit line source driver .

With reference to the refresh operation of the simple matrix ferroelectric memory according to the embodiment of the present invention will be now described.

In step S in the external access detection circuit determines whether or not an access is generated. If the external access detection circuit determines that the access is not generated in step S the determination as to whether or not the access is generated in step S is repeated. On the other hand if the external access detection circuit determines that the access is generated in step S the external access frequency of the first counter is counted up by 1 by the external access detection circuit in step S. Then the external access frequency is outputted to the disturbance prevention control circuit by the first counter . The frequency of the second counter corresponding to the memory cell block lor accessed is counted up by 1 by the disturbance prevention control circuit in step S. Thereafter in step S the disturbance prevention control circuit determines whether or not the sum of the external access frequencies of the first counter reaches a prescribed frequency. In step S if the disturbance prevention control circuit determines that the sum of the external access frequencies of the first counter does not reach a prescribed frequency the process is returned to step S and the processes of step S to step S are repeated.

In step S on the other hand if the disturbance prevention control circuit determines that the sum of the external access frequencies of the first counter reaches a prescribed frequency the disturbance prevention control circuit determines whether or not the sum of the frequencies counted by each second counter reaches a prescribed frequency in step S. In step S if the disturbance prevention control circuit determines that the sum of the frequencies counted by each second counter reaches a prescribed frequency in step S the imprint prevention control circuit resets the third counter corresponding to the memory cell block or in which the frequency of the second counter has reached a prescribed frequency in step S. Then in step S the disturbance prevention control circuit outputs an execution signal of the disturbance preventing refresh operation for suppressing a disturbance of the relevant memory cell block lor to the row decoder through the access control circuit . Thus the disturbance preventing refresh operation for suppressing a disturbance is executed with respect to the relevant memory cell block lor

Then in step S the disturbance prevention control circuit resets the second counter . Thereafter the process is returned to step S and the same processes are repeated.

In step S on the other hand if the disturbance prevention control circuit determines that the sum of the frequencies counted by each second counter does not reach a prescribed frequency the imprint prevention control circuit counts up by 1 a frequency of the third counter corresponding to the relevant memory cell block lor in step S. In step S the imprint prevention control circuit determines whether or not the processes of step S and step S have been executed with respect to all memory cell blocks land . Specifically in step S the imprint prevention control circuit determines whether or not the determination in step S and the count up process of each third counter in step S have been executed with respect to all memory cell blocks land . In step S if the imprint prevention control circuit determines that the processes of step S and step S have been not executed with respect to all memory cell blocks land the process is returned to step S and the same processes are repeated.

In step S on the other hand if the imprint prevention control circuit determines that the processes of step S and step S have been executed with respect to all memory cell blocks land the imprint prevention control circuit determines whether or not the sum of the frequencies counted by each third counter reaches a prescribed frequency in step S. If the imprint prevention control circuit determines that the sum of the frequencies counted by each third counter reaches a prescribed frequency in step S since the relevant memory cell block lor is not accessed for a long time the imprint prevention control circuit resets the second counter corresponding to the relevant memory cell block lor through the disturbance prevention control circuit in step S and thereafter the imprint prevention control circuit outputs an execution signal of the imprint preventing refresh operation for suppressing an imprint of the relevant memory cell block lor to the row decoder through the access control circuit in step S. Thus the imprint preventing refresh operation for suppressing an imprint is executed with respect to the memory cell block lor not accessed for a long time. A no access frequency resulting in an imprint is counted by the first counter and the second counter counting an access frequency resulting in a disturbance and the third counter . Thereafter in step S the imprint prevention control circuit resets the third counter of the memory cell block lor in which the imprint preventing refresh operation has been performed in step S. Then the process is returned to step S and the same processes are repeated.

On the other hand if the imprint prevention control circuit determines that the sum of the frequencies counted by each third counter does not reach a prescribed frequency in step S the imprint prevention control circuit determines whether or not the process of step S has been performed with respect to all memory cell blocks land in step S. Specifically in step S the imprint prevention control circuit determines whether or not the determination as to whether the sum of the frequencies counted by the third counter corresponding to each of the memory cell blocks land reaches a prescribed frequency is performed with respect to all memory cell blocks land . If the imprint prevention control circuit determines that the process of step S is not executed with respect to all memory cell blocks land in step S the process is returned to step S and the same process is repeated. In step S on the other hand if the imprint prevention control circuit determines that the process of step S is executed with respect to all memory cell blocks land the process is returned to step S and the same processes are repeated.

With reference to the disturbance preventing refresh operation of the simple matrix ferroelectric memory according to the embodiment of the present invention will be now described. is a voltage waveform diagram of a disturbance preventing refresh operation in a case of wiring data H in a selected memory cell while is a voltage waveform diagram of a disturbance preventing refresh operation in a case of wiring data L in a selected memory cell .

The ferroelectric memory continuously performs three cycles of a read operation READ a rewrite RESTORE and a rewrite RESTORE in the disturbance preventing refresh operation as shown in . More specifically the ferroelectric memory applies a voltage Vcc to a selected word line WL corresponding to the row address signal of the internal address signal while applying no voltage to the bit lines BL thereby collectively reading data stored in all memory cells linked to the selected word line WL through the corresponding bit lines BL with the sense amplifier see as shown in . In this read operation the ferroelectric memory applies a voltage Vcc to write data L in all memory cells linked to the selected word line WL. In the read operation the ferroelectric memory applies no voltage to nonselected word lines WL and bit lines BL thereby applying no voltage to the nonselected memory cells linked to the nonselected word lines WL. The read operation READ in the disturbance preventing refresh operation is an example of the second read operation in the present invention and a continuous operation of the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE is an example of the second rewrite operation in the present invention.

Next the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage Vcc to the memory cells from which data H have been read among those linked to the selected word line WL while applying no voltage to the bit lines BL thereby rewriting data L in these memory cells in the rewrite RESTORE as shown in . Thereafter the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data H have been read while applying no voltage to the selected word line WL thereby writing data H in the memory cells in the rewrite RESTORE . In the rewrite RESTORE on the memory cells from which data H have been read the ferroelectric memory applies a voltage 1 3 Vcc to nonselected word lines WL while applying no voltage to the bit lines BL from which data H have been read. Thus the ferroelectric memory applies a voltage 1 3 Vcc to the nonselected memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data H have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . In the rewrite RESTORE the ferroelectric memory applies a voltage 2 3 Vcc to the nonselected word lines WL while applying the voltage Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data H have been read. Thus the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data H have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . Therefore the ferroelectric memory applies no voltage exceeding 1 3 Vcc to the nonselected memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data H have been read as an absolute value while applying the voltages 1 3 Vcc and 1 3 Vcc generated in the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE respectively to cancel each other.

On the other hand the ferroelectric memory has read data from and simultaneously written data L in the memory cells from which data L have been read among those linked to the selected word line WL through the aforementioned read operation READ as shown in . Therefore the ferroelectric memory so performs the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE as to apply a voltage 1 3 Vcc to the selected word line WL as a voltage value absolute value not destroying the data L written in the memory cells . More specifically the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage Vcc to the selected word line WL while applying the voltage 2 3 Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data L have been read in the rewrite RESTORE with respect to the memory cells of the selected word line WL. In the rewrite RESTORE the ferroelectric memory applies no voltage to the selected word line WL while applying the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data L have been read. In the rewrite RESTORE with respect to the memory cells from which data L have been read the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the nonselected word lines WL while applying the voltage 2 3 Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data L have been read. Thus only the voltage 1 3 Vcc appears in the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data L have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . In the rewrite RESTORE the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 2 3 Vcc to the nonselected word lines WL while applying the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data L have been read. Thus the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data L have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . Therefore the ferroelectric memory applies no voltage exceeding 1 3 Vcc to the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit line BL from which data L have been read as an absolute value while applying the voltages 1 3 Vcc and 1 3 Vcc generated in the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE respectively to cancel each other.

With reference to the imprint preventing refresh operation of the simple matrix ferroelectric memory according to the embodiment of the present invention will be now described. is a voltage waveform diagram of an imprint preventing refresh operation in a case of wiring data H in a selected memory cell while is a voltage waveform diagram of an imprint preventing refresh operation in a case of wiring data L in a selected memory cell .

The ferroelectric memory continuously performs a read operation READ an additional cycle added by the imprint prevention control circuit a rewrite RESTORE and a rewrite RESTORE in the imprint preventing refresh operation as shown in . More specifically the ferroelectric memory applies a voltage Vcc to a selected word line WL corresponding to the row address signal of the internal address signal while applying no voltage to bit lines BL thereby collectively reading data stored in all memory cells linked to the selected word line WL through corresponding bit lines BL and thereafter reads data stored in a selected memory cell corresponding to a column address signal with the column decoder see in the read operation READ as shown in . In this read operation the ferroelectric memory applies a voltage Vcc to write data L in all memory cells linked to the selected word line WL. In the read operation the ferroelectric memory applies no voltage to nonselected word lines WL and bit lines BL thereby applying no voltage to nonselected memory cells linked to the nonselected word lines WL. Then the ferroelectric memory performs the additional cycle so that the sum of voltages applied to the selected word line WL reaches zero in a cycle of the imprint preventing refresh operation. In this additional cycle the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage Vcc to the bit lines BL while applying no voltage to the selected word line WL. The ferroelectric memory applies the same voltage Vcc as that applied to the bit lines BL in the additional cycle to apply no voltage to nonselected word lines WL. The read operation READ in the imprint preventing refresh operation is an example of the first read operation in the present invention and a continuous operation of the additional cycle the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE is an example of the first rewrite operation in the present invention.

The ferroelectric memory has written data H in the memory cells from which data H data 1 have been read among those linked to the selected word line WL in the aforementioned additional cycle as shown in . Therefore the ferroelectric memory so performs the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE as to apply a voltage 1 3 Vcc to the selected word line WL as a voltage value absolute value not destroying the data H written in the memory cells . More specifically the ferroelectric memory applies no voltage to the selected word line WL while applying a voltage 1 3 Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data H have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . Then in the rewrite RESTORE the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage Vcc to the selected word line WL while applying a voltage 2 3 Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data H have been read. Therefore the ferroelectric memory applies the voltages to the memory cells connected to the selected word line WL so that Vcc and Vcc applied in the read operation READ and the additional cycle respectively cancel each other and 1 3 Vcc and 1 3 Vcc applied in the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE respectively cancel each other. Thus the ferroelectric memory can set the sum of the voltages applied to the selected memory cells connected to the selected word line WL in a single imprint preventing refresh operation to 0 . The Vcc applied in the additional cycle and the 1 3 Vcc applied in the rewrite RESTORE are examples of the first voltage pulse in the present invention respectively and the Vcc applied in the read operation READ and the Vcc applied in the rewrite RESTORE are examples of the second voltage pulse in the present invention respectively.

In the rewrite RESTORE on the memory cells from which data H have been read the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 2 3 Vcc to the nonselected word lines WL while applying the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data H have been read as shown in . Thus the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data H have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . In the rewrite RESTORE the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the nonselected word lines WL while applying the voltage 2 3 Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data H have been read. Thus only the voltage Vcc appears in the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data H have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . Therefore the ferroelectric memory applies no voltage exceeding 1 3 Vcc to the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data H have been read as an absolute value while applying the voltages 1 3 Vcc and 1 3 Vcc generated in the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE respectively to cancel each other.

With respect to memory cells from which data L Data 0 has been read among those linked to the selected word line WL on the other hand the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data L have been read while applying no voltage to the selected word line WL thereby writing data H in these memory cells in the rewrite RESTORE as shown in . In the rewrite RESTORE the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage Vcc to the selected word line WL while applying no voltage to the bit lines BL from which data L have been read thereby writing data L in the memory cells connected to the selected word line WL and the bit lines BL from which data L have been read. Therefore the ferroelectric memory applies the voltages to the memory cells connected to the selected word line WL and the bit lines BL from which data L have been read so that Vcc and Vcc applied in the read operation READ and the additional cycle respectively cancel each other and Vcc and Vcc applied in the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE respectively cancel each other. Thus the ferroelectric memory can set the sum of the voltages applied to the memory cells connected to the selected word line WL to 0 in a single imprint preventing refresh operation. The Vcc applied in the additional cycle and the Vcc applied in the rewrite RESTORE are examples of the first voltage pulse in the present invention respectively and the Vcc applied in the read operation READ and the Vcc applied in the rewrite RESTORE are examples of the second voltage pulse in the present invention respectively.

With respect to the memory cells from which data L have been read the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the nonselected word lines WL while applying the voltage Vcc to the bit lines BL from which data L have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . Thus only the voltage 1 3 Vcc appears in the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data L have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . In the second rewrite RESTORE the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the nonselected word lines WL while applying no voltage to the bit lines BL from which data L have been read. Thus the ferroelectric memory applies the voltage 1 3 Vcc to the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data L have been read in the rewrite RESTORE . Therefore the ferroelectric memory applies no voltage exceeding 1 3 Vcc to the memory cells connected to the nonselected word lines WL and the bit lines BL from which data L have been read as an absolute value while applying the voltages 1 3 Vcc and 1 3 Vcc generated in the rewrite RESTORE and the rewrite RESTORE respectively to cancel each other.

According to this embodiment as hereinabove described there are provided the third counters each detecting a frequency in which the sum of the access frequencies of each of the memory cell blocks land counted by the corresponding second counters has not reached a prescribed frequency when the first counter detects that the sum of the access frequencies with respect to all memory cells reaches a prescribed frequency whereby the first counter and the second counter can be used as not only a counting circuit of the access frequency resulting in the so called disturbance in which data is lost due to reduced quantities of polarization resulting from application of a prescribed voltage to the memory cells connected to word lines WL other than a selected word line but also a counting circuit of a no access frequency resulting an imprint together with the third counter . Therefore the first counter and the second counter can be used as both the counting circuit of the access frequency resulting in a disturbance and the counting circuit of the no access frequency resulting in an imprint. Thus the third counters each detecting the frequency in which the sum of each of the access frequencies of each of the memory cell blocks land counted by the corresponding second counters has not reached a prescribed frequency is provided whereby the no access frequency resulting in the imprint can be counted. Consequently increase in circuit size can be suppressed dissimilarly to a case where a timer performing a measurement for a long time in order to measure a period during which the imprint occurs.

According to this embodiment each third counter is so formed as to detect the frequency no access frequency in which the sum of the access frequencies counted by the second counter counting the access frequency of each of the memory cell blocks land has not reached a prescribed frequency. Therefore in a case where the frequency counted by each third counter reaches a prescribed frequency the corresponding memory cell blocks land are not accessed. Thus when the frequency counted by each third counters reach a prescribed frequency the imprint preventing refresh operation is performed with respect to the memory cells of the corresponding memory cell blocks land whereby an imprint can be suppressed.

According to this embodiment each third counter is so formed as to detect the frequency in which the sum of the access frequencies of each of the memory cell blocks land has not reached a prescribed frequency. Therefore when the frequency counted by each third counter reaches a prescribed frequency the imprint preventing refresh operation is performed with respect to only the memory cells of the corresponding memory cell blocks land . Thus reduction in a period for an original access and increase in power consumption can be suppressed as compared with a case where the imprint preventing refresh operation is preformed with respect to all memory cells.

According to this embodiment when the imprint prevention control circuit and the access control circuit are so formed that the imprint preventing refresh operation is performed with respect to the memory cells included in at least one of the memory cell blocks land when the sum of the frequencies counted by each third counter reaches a prescribed frequency. Therefore when the sum of the frequencies counted by the second counter reaches a prescribed frequency the sum of the access frequencies counted by the third counter do not reach a prescribed frequency whereby the disturbance preventing refresh operation is performed with respect to the memory cells while the imprint preventing refresh operation is not performed. Thus it is possible not to perform the imprint preventing refresh operation with respect to the memory cells with respect to which the disturbance preventing refresh operation has been performed whereby reduction in a period for an original access of the memory can be suppressed and power consumption can be further suppressed.

According to this embodiment when the imprint preventing refresh operation is performed with respect to the memory cells data having an opposite polarity to data held in the memory cells is written in the memory cells and thereafter the data held in the memory cells is rewritten. Thus the memory cells in which the same data is written are not left for a long time by performing the refresh operation with respect to the memory cells whereby an imprint in which a quantity of polarization is gradually reduced over time by leaving the memory cells in which the data is written for a long time can be easily suppressed.

According to this embodiment in the imprint preventing refresh operation a positive voltage pulse and a negative voltage pulse are applied to a selected memory cell the same number of times respectively. Thus the pulses opposite to each other in polarity are applied to the selected memory cell the same number of times respectively whereby a disturbance can be suppressed and an imprint in which a hysteresis curve is shifted in a positive or negative direction horizontal direction by applying a voltage pulse having the same polarity a plurality of times can be suppressed.

According to this embodiment the memory is so formed that the disturbance preventing refresh operation is performed with respect to the memory cells included in at least one of the memory cell blocks land when the sum of the frequencies counted by the second counter reaches a prescribed frequency in addition to the imprint preventing refresh operation. Thus an imprint of the memory cells can be easily suppressed and a disturbance of the memory cells can be easily suppressed.

