---

title: Method for cold stable biojet fuel
abstract: Plant or animal oils are processed to produce a fuel that operates at very cold temperatures and is suitable as an aviation turbine fuel, a diesel fuel, a fuel blendstock, or any fuel having a low cloud point, pour point or freeze point. The process is based on the cracking of plant or animal oils or their associated esters, known as biodiesel, to generate lighter chemical compounds that have substantially lower cloud, pour, and/or freeze points than the original oil or biodiesel. Cracked oil is processed using separation steps together with analysis to collect fractions with desired low temperature properties by removing undesirable compounds that do not possess the desired temperature properties.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09206367&OS=09206367&RS=09206367
owner: University of North Dakota
number: 09206367
owner_city: Grand Forks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070702
---
This application claims priority from Provisional Application No. 60 806 305 filed Jun. 30 2006 which is incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE FC36 03GO13055 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

One of the key challenges facing modern industrialized society is the limited sources of fossil fuel that are accelerating the development of renewable sources of fuel. Several new sources have been pioneered during the past 20 years and one of the more attractive sources is fuel that is derived from biomass referred to as biofuel. It has been speculated that up to 30 percent of current transportation fuel will be replaced by biofuel in the next 5 to 10 years. Although biofuel has been successfully introduced into the marketplace certain properties of biofuel have restricted the use of larger quantities of biofuel for diverse transportation applications.

The most successful class of biofuels is biodiesel which is produced from crop oils or animals fats. Unfortunately biodiesel will not work as a diesel fossil fuel replacement for an aviation turbine due to limitations in its temperature dependent properties at the atmospheric temperatures experienced during flight. For example military specifications require that aviation turbine fuel be completely resistant to the formation of solid crystals at temperatures as low as 47 C. which corresponds to an altitude of 9500 meters or about 31 000 feet. Unacceptably canola methyl ester CME and soy methyl ester SME biodiesel have typical cloud points of 1.0 C. and 3.0 C. respectively and pour points of 9.0 C. and 3.0 C. respectively Graboski M. et al. Prog. Energy Combust. Sci 24 1998 125 164 . Similarly biodiesel will not work as a fossil fuel replacement for diesel engines in cold temperatures. The chemical properties of biofuels currently in the marketplace are such that solids form in the fuel solution at cold temperatures referred to clouding zones. Fuel clouding can cause fuel filters carburetors or any small orifices to become clogged resulting in significant damage and repair expense and possibly resulting in death of the operator and passengers.

Three general classes of strategies have been investigated to overcome these cold flow limitations. These involve one or more methods to winterize the fuel by physical removal of the chemical components that solidify above the target freeze point use of additives to inhibit solidification or chemical manipulation of the fuel composition to modify the properties of the fuel.

One type of winterization process for biodiesel fuel involves first chilling or partially distilling the fuels followed by chilling and subsequently filtering out any precipitated solids U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0231236 . In this method high melting point components of biodiesel are removed to decrease the fuel s freezing point making it comparable to petroleum based diesel fuels. This technique typically requires refrigeration of the biodiesel over lengthy time periods e.g. 16 hours or longer at the target cold flow temperature followed by filtration of the solid crystals. The removal of partially solidified triglycerides reduces the cloud point and pour point of the biodiesel however the composition does not conform to the desired standards. Further this method is time consuming and commercially expensive.

In yet another winterization approach the biodiesel is subjected to a series of fractionation processes where material of lower volatility is separated out of the fuel. Lower volatility material tends to have a higher freezing point. By removing this material the cold flow properties of the biofuel are enhanced. This method yields a pour point between 15 C. and 24 C. However this temperature range is above the range required for aviation fuel or for a diesel fuel for very cold regions. This winterization method gives very low yields 

The second general class of methods to improve the cold flow characteristics of crop oil based fuels is the addition of compounds that act to improve cold flow properties. Commercial additives developed for improving cold flow of conventional turbine and diesel fuels are largely ineffective for biodiesel. These are chemicals added in very small quantities 0.1 0.2 by volume that can lower the cloud point. Typically they do so primarily by bonding to frozen molecules when the fuel falls below the cloud point thus preventing those molecules from bonding cross linking with other frozen molecules. Therefore the additives are beneficial with respect to inhibiting nucleation and crystalline growth of biodiesel molecules. In general the properties of these additives are inadequate because they primarily affect the pour point rather than the cloud point or have a minimal impact on cloud point. The cloud point is recognized to be a more critical property than the pour point for improving low temperature flow properties because it is a low temperature operability indicator Dunn R. O. Alternative Jet Fuels From Vegetable Oils American Society of Agricultural Engineers Vol. 44 6 2001 pp. 1751 1757 .

The third class of methods to reduce the cold temperature properties of a biofuel is to chemically modify the crop oil or biodiesel. A number of inventions are based on modifying the transesterification process that converts free fatty acid oil into biodiesel. The most common approach is to use branched chain alcohols to esterify the crop oil such as isopropanol isobutanol and 2 butanol rather than methanol Lee I. et al. Use of Branched Chain Esters to Reduce the Crystallization Temperature of Biodiesel Journal of the American Oil Chemists Society 72 1995 1155 1160 . Branched esters have lower freezing points in the neat form and have been shown to improve the cloud point and pour point of biodiesel fuels. For example isopropyl soyate has a cloud point of 9 C. and 2 butyl soyate has a cloud point of 12 C. In comparison the cloud point of methyl soyate is 0 C. However no esterification process has been developed that can achieve the necessary cold flow properties for aviation turbine fuels.

In another variation of this method the transesterification reaction is carried out in methanol and or ethanol but with the addition of methyl or ethyl acetates of fatty acids and an inert solvent U.S. Pat. Publication No. 2003 0167681 . This is followed by separation and blending steps to produce a biodiesel with improved properties at low temperatures. However the freezing point ranged from 10 C. to 17 C. and is still not an adequate replacement for JP 8 aviation fuel. Detailed specifications for JP 8 can be found in MIL DTL 83133E.

While all of these inventions offer improvements over untreated crop oil for temperature performance of a biofuel product none of these methods provides for a biofuel product that meets commercial low temperature requirements. In addition these methods suffer from inherent disadvantages that limit their economic feasibility in the marketplace.

The invention described herein provides for a biofuel suitable for use in aviation turbines or biodiesel engines used on land or at sea in a wide range of temperatures including very low temperatures and an improved method for production of such a biofuel. The method uses cracking oil processing analysis and separation methods to derive a biofuel with a cloud point of less than 10 C. from plant oils biologically generated lipids and or animal fats.

The invention includes a method for producing a fuel composition derived from biomass that is stable at low temperatures. An oil or oil ester obtained from plant including algae or animal biomass is added to a reactor vessel. The oil or oil ester is heated in the reactor to a temperature from about 100 C. to about 600 C. at a pressure ranging from about vacuum conditions to about 3000 psia for a time sufficient to crack the oil or oil ester. During the process undesired material unreacted oil or oil esters and light ends are removed from the cracked oil or oil ester. Desirable fuel components of the cracked oil or oil ester are separated and collected. The desirable fuel components exhibit low cloud points and generally include C4 to C16 alkanes alkenes aromatics cycloparaffins or alcohols C2 to C16 fatty acids and C2 to C16 fatty acid methyl esters. The collected desirable fuel components are collected and combined to form a fuel composition that has a cloud point of less than 10 C.

The invention also includes a fuel composition having a low temperature cloud point where an oil or oil ester derived from biomass is cracked in a reactor processed to remove undesirable components and separated to collect desirable fuel fractions that when combined have a cloud point less than 10 C.

The invention further includes a fuel composition derived solely from plant or animal biomass that contains a hydrocarbon component and a fatty acid component where the fuel composition has a cloud point less than 10 C.

The invention further includes a fuel composition that is a blend of a biofuel derived solely from plant or animal biomass and a petroleum based fuel where the blended fuel composition has a cloud point less than 10 C.

 Biodiesel means a diesel equivalent fuel processed from biomass. Biodiesel may be transesterified oil derived from vegetable oil and or animal fat. The most common commercialized form of biodiesel is produced by the transesterification of a crop oil or animal fat using a hydroxide donor chemical such as methanol or ethanol 

 Biofuel blendstock is a mixture of chemicals derived from biomass that is mixed with other chemicals into a final fuel product. Preferred fuel mixtures involving a biofuel are mixtures of biofuel blendstock ranging in concentration from 5 to 95 by volume with a geologically transformed fuel.

 Biomass means any organic non fossil material that is derived from the mass of any biological organism excluding mass that has been transformed by geological processes in substances such as coal or petroleum.

 Biojet fuel means any fuel derived from biomass that meets the cloud point pour point and flash point specifications of military JP 8 or commercial Jet A and having acceptable operational properties when utilized as the energy motive force in a turbine.

 Cloud point means the temperature at which waxy crystals in a fuel separate or form a cloudy appearance. Cloud point is an indicator of the tendency to plug a filter or orifice at a cold operating temperature.

 Cracking means any process that changes the chemical composition of an organic chemical or chemical mixture by cleaving one or more carbon carbon bonds in one or more molecules.

 Cold stable biodiesel means a biodiesel that has a low cloud point where the mixed fuel exhibits a cloud point less than 10 C. more preferably less than 20 C. and most preferably less than 30 C.

 Diesel No. 2 means a fuel conforming to the specification requirements for Grade No. 2 D diesel fuel in ASTM D975. When used in other applications these fuels may be known as No. 2 fuel oil or No. 2 GT gas turbine fuel these fuel grades having slightly different specifications but comparable compositions.

 Diesel No. 1 means a fuel conforming to the specification requirements for Grade No. 1 D diesel fuel in ASTM D975 and is often commonly referred to as kerosene. In other applications these fuels may be known as No. 1 GT gas turbine fuel oil or Jet A Aviation Turbine Fuel these fuel grades having slightly different specifications but comparable compositions.

 Fatty acid means a carboxylic acid that is saturated or unsaturated which typically contains an aliphatic tail.

 Plant means any living organism that is a member of the kingdom Plantae or of the division Chiorphyta green algae .

 Plant oil means lipids that are derived from plant sources. Examples of plant oil include crop oils or oilseeds and vegetable oils.

 Pour point means the temperature at which a fuel will no longer flow. Pour point is a measure of the resistance of the fuel to flow at cold temperatures.

 Thermal cracking means a cracking process that involves the addition of energy in the form of thermal energy as measured by an increase in the temperature of the substance being cracked.

The present invention is directed to the production of an improved cold stable biofuel derived from plant oils biologically generated lipids or animal fats that can be used for a variety of applications as a transportation or stationary fuel or fuel blendstock that can be utilized in very cold temperatures. The cloud points and pour points of the biofuel are preferably less than 10 C. more preferably less than 20 C. and most preferably less than 30 C. This invention resolves problems with current biofuels operating at very cold temperatures through the chemical modification and processing of a crop oil biologically generated lipids animal fat biodiesel or mixture thereof. The chemical modifications based on cracking and separation techniques are designed to produce a fuel or fuel blendstock with acceptable combustion and other operating properties for turbine and diesel engines operating at very cold temperatures. Surprisingly despite the chemical property limitations of current biofuels for high altitude or very cold temperature operations and previous inventions and developments associated with utilizing cracking techniques to manipulate the properties of crop oils or their transesterified derivatives a method has not been developed for the production of a cold stable biofuel that meets the cold temperature operating requirements of an aviation turbine fuel or diesel engines in low temperature environments.

According to the present invention it has been discovered that an aviation turbine fuel can be produced that satisfies the primary cold flow specifications and combustion properties analogous to JP 8 military or Jet A commercial petroleum derived aviation turbine fuel. The invention uses thermal or catalytic cracking technologies known to those skilled in the art coupled with separation technologies utilized for fossil fuels such as distillation filtration solvent extraction and related technologies but the combination of these technologies with selection of lower cloud point properties has not been used for the specific purpose of producing an aviation turbine fuel from crop oil biologically generated lipids animal fat oil or combinations thereof.

The raw material for this new process is any plant oil biological lipid like algae animal fat or a modified material made from biomass sources. Plant oils contain a variety of fatty naturally synthesized carboxylic acids which can be purified separated and chemically modified for use as a food source or chemical feedstock or as a potential transportation fuel. Plant oils include but are not limited to flax soybean safflower sunflower sesame canola rapeseed jatropha primrose poppy camelina crambe olive coconut palm cotton corn soybean and nuts. Typical fatty acids contained in crop oils include saturated and unsaturated fatty acids. Saturated fatty acids do not contain any double bonds or other functional groups. Unsaturated fatty acids contain two or more carbon atoms having a carbon carbon double bond. Saturated acids include stearic C18 18 0 palmitic C16 16 0 myristic C14 14 0 and lauric C12 12 0 . Unsaturated acids include those such as linolenic cis cis cis C18 18 3 linoleic cis cis C18 18 2 oleic cis C18 18 1 hexadecanoic cis cis C16 16 2 palmitoleic cis C16 16 1 and myristoleic cis C14 14 1 Fangrui M. et al. Biodiesel Production A Review Bioresource Technology 70 1999 1 15. . Compositions of the major commercially available crop oils are listed in Table 1.

It is known that biodiesel derived from plant biomass using esterified soybean oil or soy methyl ester referred to as SME can be utilized as an aviation fuel only at low altitude conditions Corporan E. et al. Impacts of Biodiesel on Pollutant Emissions of a JP 8 Fueled Turbine Engine . J. Air Waste Manage Assoc 55 1995 940 949 . Also biodiesel derived from many different crop oils or animal fats has also been shown to be an acceptable diesel 2 fuel replacement. Diesel 2 is a petroleum based product that has acceptable properties at temperatures above 0 F. 18 C. . However biodiesel including the most common biodiesel using methyl esters exhibits cold flow property problems below 32 F. 0 C. .

In another variation used to produce biodiesel a transesterification reaction was carried out with methanol and or ethanol but with the addition of methyl or ethyl acetates of fatty acids and an inert solvent U.S. Patent Publication No. 2003 0167681 . However the low temperature properties of this biofuel are not adequate to qualify as a commercial replacement for JP 8 or Jet A aviation fuel.

The current invention utilizes thermal or catalytic cracking methods coupled with separation technologies and chemical analysis to produce crop oil biologically generated lipid or animal fat based fuels that can be utilized at high altitude conditions and or very cold temperatures. In the cracking process energy is used to break carbon carbon bonds. Each carbon atom ends up with a single electron and free radicals are formed as shown in . Any reactions of the free radicals can lead to various products. The breaking of large organic molecules into smaller and more useful molecules can be achieved by using high pressures and or temperatures with a catalyst catalytic cracking or without thermal cracking . Previous research has shown that crop oils and biodiesel are compatible for the cracking processes using either thermal or catalytic cracking Ooi Y. et al. Catalytic Conversion of Palm Oil Base Fatty Acid Mixtures to Liquid Fuel Biomass Bioenergy 27 2004 477 484 Katikaneni S. et al. Catalytic Conversion of Canola Oil to Fuels and Chemicals Over Various Cracking Catalysts Canadian J. Chem Eng 73 1995 484 497 . These techniques have been used in previous inventions and studies to modify the chemical composition of crop oils or biodiesel however they have not been used to produce a biofuel that operates acceptably at very cold temperatures.

A simplified block diagram of the biofuel production process of the current invention is shown in . The crop oil lipid or animal fat feedstock is produced by processes now available or that may be invented in the future. This raw feedstock may be preheated or directly fed into the cracking reactor . By varying the time temperature and pressure under which a particular feedstock remains under cracking conditions the desired degree of cracking conversion can be controlled. Temperature and time residence time are the more important process variables with pressure playing a secondary role. The products of the cracking process are dependent upon the conditions of cracking and the original composition of the feedstock oil Bhaskar B. K. Modern Petroleum Refining Process Oxford and IBH publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd. 303 405 and the gaseous environment present in the cracking reactor. The cracking conditions are varied based on detailed chemical analysis and evaluation of the low temperature stability of the feedstock and cracking products in order to produce an acceptable biojet fuel. The presence of a catalyst can be used to improve the yield of desirable products decrease the formation of unwanted products or increase the efficiency of the cracking reaction due to lower pressure temperature or residence time requirements. Catalysts include but are not limited to zeolytes and rare metals such as palladium niobium molybdenum platinum titanium aluminum cobalt gold and mixtures thereof.

In modified cracking applications a diesel fuel additive is produced with favorable combustion properties as measured by the cetane number from crop oils using cracking in the presence of hydrogen known as hydrocracking U.S. Pat. No. 4 992 605 . Another related invention utilizes hydrocracking to obtain a similar additive from tall oil or tall oil crop oil blends U.S. Pat. No. 5 705 722 . In yet another version of this technique biodiesel is subjected to catalytic cracking and then blended with diesel fuel as an additive to provide improved fuel properties U.S. Pat. No. 5 578 090 . Any of these modified cracking applications could be used as a cracking method in the present invention.

While all of these many inventions are improvements over the pure crop oil or biodiesel for performance at lower temperatures each method has inherent disadvantages that limit the feasibility of the method for the large scale production of an aviation jet fuel from crop oil or biodiesel either because the method does not render a product that meets the cloud point and pour point requirements equivalent to JP 8 or Jet A specifications or alternatively the cost of production is unfavorable. Thus there is a need to develop a method that allows a crop oil biologically generated lipid or animal fat oil feedstock to be converted into a product that will function effectively as turbine and or diesel engine fuel or fuel blendstock and which also meets the cold flow property requirements of aviation fuel. The current invention utilizes separation technologies coupled with thermal catalytic cracking techniques in order to develop crop oil biologically generated lipid or animal fat based fuels that can be utilized at high altitude conditions and very cold temperatures.

In the cracking output is subjected to a variety of processing steps dependent upon the material generated. The output from the cracking reactor depends upon the specific reactor design employed. The following are examples of reactor types known to those skilled in the art batch continuous flow through flow through packed bed and fluidized bed. Material generated in the cracking reactor consists of four general classes light ends biojet fuel chemical components unreacted raw materials and residual materials or residue .

The light ends consist of the unreacted vapor phase material that was added to the reactor to manipulate the cracking reaction such as hydrogen nitrogen or water vapor plus small molecular weight organic chemicals and hydrocarbons generated in the cracking reactor. The small molecular weight organic chemicals and hydrocarbons such as methane methanol ethane ethanol n pentane i pentane pentene pentanol n butane i butane butanol butane methyl ester ethyl ester etc. have chemical and physical properties such as being too volatile that are undesirable when present in substantial concentrations in an aviation turbine or cold flow diesel fuel. Light ends are separated from the other material that exits the reactor by gas liquid phase separation distillation condensation or other processes .

The biojet fuel chemical components are those portions of the material generated in the cracking reactor that contribute to desirable chemical and physical properties of the biojet fuel. For example jet and diesel fossil fuels such as those that meet the fuel specifications for JP 8 are primarily composed of C6 to C12 straight or branched chain alkane hydrocarbons or aromatic hydrocarbons where C refers to carbon and the number 6 or 12 refers to the number of carbon atoms in the molecule. Typical desirable compounds generated in the cracking reactor include C4 to C16 alkanes alkenes aromatics cycloparaffins and alcohols C2 to C16 fatty acids and C2 to C16 fatty acid methyl esters. Biofuel fractions selected preferably consist of C4 to C12 alkanes alkenes aromatics cycloparaffins and alcohols C2 to C12 fatty acids and C2 to C12 fatty acid methyl esters and more preferably consist of C4 to C8 alkanes alkenes aromatics cycloparaffins and alcohols C2 to C8 fatty acids and C2 to C8 fatty acid methyl esters.

Unreacted raw materials are chemicals that enter the cracking reactor but for some reason do not transform to chemical compounds with carbon chains shorter than C16. These materials have some chemical and physical properties that are undesirable in an aviation turbine or cold flow diesel fuel. Unreacted raw materials are separated from the biojet fuel chemical components by distillation or other separation techniques . These unreacted or uncracked raw materials can then be returned to the cracking reactor fed to a second cracking reactor or utilized for some other purpose.

Residual material or residue consists of chemicals produced during cracking reactions that have a higher molecular weight and or lower volatility and or lower heating value than is desirable for the biojet fuel product. Some of the residual components can be separated from the biojet fuel chemical components along with the unreacted raw materials and processed with these unreacted raw materials. Other residue components typically those of higher molecular weight will be in the form of solid material after the cracking reaction. These compounds are typically known as coke. The coke may contain valuable chemical compounds such as boiler fuel or other by products that can be extracted from the residue by various process methods including solvent extraction distillation etc. Depending upon the design of the cracking reactor the coke may not be amenable to further processing. This coke may be oxidized or combusted or otherwise removed from the cracking reactor or cracking catalysts by methods known to those skilled in the art.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention a free fatty acid crop oil biologically generated lipids or animal fat oil or its transesterified derivative is heated to a temperature ranging from 300 C. to 500 C. in a vessel known as the cracking reactor at pressures ranging from vacuum conditions to 3000 psia in the presence of a gaseous environment that may contain an inert gas such as nitrogen water vapor hydrogen a mixture of vapor phase organic chemicals or any other gaseous substance and at residence times ranging from one to 180 minutes to affect cracking reactions that change the chemical composition of the contents of the cracking reactor. The vapor leaving the cracking reactor known as the crackate is subjected to downstream processing that may include cooling and partial condensation vapor liquid separation extraction of by product chemicals by solvent extraction or other chemical physical property manipulation in situ reaction distillation or flash separation to produce an acceptable aviation turbine fuel. The liquid and solids leaving the reactor known as the residue are subjected to downstream processing that may include cooling or heating liquid solid separation vapor liquid separation vapor solid separation extraction of by product chemicals by solvent extraction or other chemical physical property manipulation to produce an acceptable fuel by product or byproducts. Unreacted and partially reacted material separated from either the crackate or the residue may be recycled to the cracking reactor or routed to additional cracking reactors.

A one gallon lab scale batch cracking reactor system was used as a cracking reactor. Output from the cracking reactor known as crackate was then processed further. The light hydrocarbons were removed through a depressurization step after condensation of liquids at atmospheric pressure and a lab scale distillation apparatus was used as a single step separator for the condensed liquids. From this equipment was produced an aviation quality fuel from canola methyl ester a type of biodiesel. These experiments were performed using the thermal cracking technique under both vacuum conditions and in the presence of a 500 psig hydrogen atmosphere. Table 2 columns 1 and 2 show typical chemical compositions obtained from the cracking and processing of canola methyl ester under vacuum and hydrogen pressure respectively. Typical cloud points and pour points of the fuels produced are shown in Table 3. Remarkably both the cloud points and pour points of the canola biodiesel subjected to thermal cracking both under vacuum conditions and in the presence of hydrogen and pressure was significantly less than 30 C. In contrast the cloud point and pour point for starting canola methyl ester feedstock was 1 C. and 9 C. respectively. These data demonstrate that the new method can be used to develop aviation biofuel and biodiesel for engines operating at high altitudes and or in very cold climates.

The apparatus described in example 1 was used to produce an aviation quality fuel from soy methyl ester a type of biodiesel. Table 2 column 3 shows a typical chemical composition obtained from the cracking and processing of soy methyl ester under hydrogen pressure. Similar to canola methyl ester the cloud point and pour point of the processed soybean biodiesel was less than 30 C. as shown in Table 3.

The apparatus described in example 1 was used to produce an aviation quality fuel from canola oil. Table 2 columns 4 and 5 show typical chemical compositions directly obtained from the cracking and processing of canola oil under vacuum and hydrogen pressure respectively. Typical cloud point and pour point of the fuels produced are shown in Table 3.

The apparatus described in example 1 was used to produce an aviation quality fuel from soybean oil. Table 2 column 6 shows a typical chemical composition obtained from the cracking and processing of soybean oil. Typical cloud point and pour point of the fuel produced are shown in Table 3.

These results clearly demonstrate that aviation and cold temperature fuels having cloud points and pour points than less 10 C. can be produced from different crop species using the method of invention described herein.

The description of the specific embodiments of the invention is presented for the purpose of illustration. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the scope of the invention to the specific forms described herein. Although the invention has been described with reference to several embodiments it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that various modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. All patents patent applications and publications referenced herein are hereby incorporated by reference.

Other embodiments are within the claims. Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

