---

title: Method and apparatus for reducing and restoring the effectiveness of a commercial skip system
abstract: A method and apparatus is disclosed which reduces or removes the effectiveness of commercial skip systems such as presently found in VCRs, PVRs, etc. which are designed to delete commercials from signal material upon playback of a previously recorded version of the signal material. In an embodiment, the effectiveness of the commercial skip system is reduced or removed by adding a flat field of selected signal level to active line portions of video lines of the signal material. Other embodiments modify the normal fade to black signal indicative of a commercial to provide a fade to non-black signal. In further embodiments, a fade to non-black signal is inserted in an overscan area of the signal picture. Still further embodiments modify audio signals or selected signals in the horizontal blanking interval which may be used in commercial skip systems to detect the presence of commercials. Still other embodiments provide techniques for overcoming the commercial skip system altering effects of the previously mentioned embodiments to at least partially restore the commercial skip system, or to enhance the reliability or effectiveness of an existing commercial skip system which has not been altered.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08254756&OS=08254756&RS=08254756
owner: Macrovision Corporation
number: 08254756
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071017
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 436 008 filed May 12 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 298 962 and entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR REDUCING AND RESTORING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF A COMMERCIAL SKIP SYSTEM incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to video signal processing in which commercials are selectively inserted into video signal material and more particularly relates to methods and apparatuses for processing a video or audio signal so as to reduce or remove the effectiveness or effects of commercial skip systems such as those presently found in video recorders.

Other methods and apparatuses of the invention relate to at least partially restoring the effectiveness of a commercial skip system which has been reduced or defeated for example by the above mentioned methods and apparatuses.

Currently there are personal video recorders PVRs and video cassette recorders VCRs which have been modified to include commercial skip circuits which detect the presence of commercials in a recorded video program and then mark the locations of the commercial for subsequent deletions. To this end in one version of a commercial skip system when the recorders are used to record a program the entire program including the commercials are recorded. If the skip system in the recorder is activated the recording is shuttled to allow the skip system to detect and then mark the beginning of the commercials in the program. In this embodiment of a commercial skip system as the marked recording is subsequently played back the marks indicating a commercial are detected and the recording is for example fast forwarded past the commercial to the point where the program is resumed. Thus the commercials are in effect skipped.

Such a commercial skip system is described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 333 091 091 5 692 093 093 and 5 696 866 866 all by Iggulden et al. This system called Commercial Advance system which has been implemented in some VCRs sold in the US market employs two basic steps for providing commercial detection and deletion that is skipping . In the first step the Commercial Advance system uses a video event detector and also may include an audio event detector to detect relevant video events and audio events. The video event detector is mainly based on the detection of black or dark video frames that are frequently observed between commercials. The audio event detector detects generally low audio signals between commercials. By detecting dark video frames and also silent scene low audio signals Commercial Advance method marks the events and stores them into an event list that can be analyzed later by its commercial detection method in the second step. The commercial detection method detects multiple groups of commercials based on the event list and a set of rules such as the typical commercial length e.g. 30 seconds and minimum number of commercials within each group of commercials.

It is readily apparent that a commercial skip system such as those disclosed in the patents 091 093 and 866 of previous mention rely on analyzing a video data stream for specific timing of detectable events such as blank or black video frames indicative of essentially two portions of the video data stream commercials and non commercials. The system stores the timing of the detectable events and then generates a classification signal based on the storage of the detectable events to thereby cause the skipping of commercials during the subsequent at least second playback of the analyzed data stream. It follows that the Commercial Advance system of patents 091 093 and 866 does not skip commercials in real time or near real time.

In prior art of interest relative to the present invention US Patent Application Publications 2003 0001977 A1 1977 and 2002 0191950 A1 1950 both to X. Wang disclose apparatus and method for preventing automated commercial detection and is comprised of a commercial transition localization device a circuit for generating a classification signal and a subsequently applied commercial transition modification device. The commercial transition localization device localizes all commercial transitions within a given video signal after a first examination of the video program and supplies the information to the commercial transition modification device in a later playback process. In a subsequent replay of the video signal the commercial transition modification device generates a new transition for each found original commercial transition and replaces the original transitions with the new transitions. The new generated commercial transitions are designed in such a way that they are in general not detectable by automated commercial detection methods used by common commercial detection and elimination systems such as the Commercial Advance system of previous mention. Thus it may be seen that the system disclosed in the patent application publications to Wang is based upon and relies on the two step non real time technique disclosed in the US Patents 091 093 and 866 discussed previously.

In a version of the system disclosed in publications 1977 and 1950 wherein the classification signal is derived automatically during recording of the video program the derived classification signal requires a memory RAM along with a microprocessor and another memory ROM for providing analysis. The classification information is stored in the RAM in association with the video signal s time code or time identification to provide the means for controlling the precise timing when subsequently playing back the video program. To provide a workable system it is readily apparent that the video signal i.e. program must be played twice. That is the video program is played a first time to allow for generation of the classification signal which has a specific timing with respect of the time code of the video program. Subsequently the video program must be played a second time to synchronize it with the previously stored classification signal whereupon the normal commercial transitions are replaced with the modified transitions as shown for example in FIGS. 1 3 of the Publication 1977 . Notice that the video signal is not modified outside of the commercial transitions.

In a second version of the system disclosed in Publications 1977 and 1950 the classification signal which identifies the commercial and non commercial portions of the whole video program is derived manually. In this version the video program is played and rewound multiple times to retrieve the exact time locations of each of the many groups of commercials and corresponding commercial transitions. Then after the entire video program is analyzed manually the manually compiled classification signal is timed with the video program s time code to allow the commercials to be detected and played upon the second playback of the video program thereby defeating the commercial skip system. As is readily apparent the system of Publications 1977 and 1950 provides for the defeat of a commercial skip system such as Commercial Advance in non real time.

It follows that the system of the Publications 1977 and or 1950 does not provide a commercial skip defeat process which operates in real time nor does it modify the video signal outside of the commercial transitions. That is the system requires the use of a classification signal the use of timecode marking on the recorded video program and the playback of the recorded video program a second time in non real time. The latter drawback produces an unacceptable delay in broadcasting the video program due to the fact that the material must be played back at least a second time. The delay is at least the duration of the video program. For example a 30 minute program with commercials will produce at least a 30 minute delay before being played back.

Further the system of the Publications 1977 and 1950 relies on a commercial transition modification device which generates a new modified commercial transition for each original commercial transition detected and replaces the original transitions with the new modified transitions. It follows then that each original commercial transition first must be detected before it can be replaced upon a second playback of the video signal.

However it is appreciated that production and or broadcast companies which depend on income from the presentation of commercials in their programs material prefer that the effects of commercial skip systems such as Commercial Advance installed in VCRs PVRs and other recorders be nullified or otherwise overcome.

The present invention provides a method and apparatus for overcoming or otherwise circumventing in real time the effectiveness of the commercial skip systems of previous mention such as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 333 091 5 692 093 and 5 696 866 of previous mention.

To this end the present invention provides method and apparatus for modifying a video signal in real time whether it is recorded in digital or analog format so that the commercial skip system is defeated or rendered less effective in identifying the presence of commercials whereby the video program is played back without substantially skipping the commercials. As described below the present invention provides various embodiments which modify the video signal in signal regions including outside of the commercial transitions. The digital or analog recording formats may be used in recorders with any combination of optical devices e.g. CDR DVDR magnetic hardware e.g. hard disk drive recorders tape devices e.g. analog or digital tape recorders or solid state memory devices.

Thus the present invention provides for modifying a regular video program when supplied broadcast etc. on the fly by modifying various video sources in the production or broadcast location or by modifying various production techniques. This results in a reduction of the effectiveness of a commercial skip system without the use of a classification signal the use of timecode marking on a recorded video program the need for playback of the recorded video program at least a second time or the producing of an unacceptable delay in the broadcasting or modifying of the video program due to having to playback the video program at least a second time. It is readily understood that such a delay is at least the duration of the program for example a 30 minute program complete with added commercials will cause a delay of 30 minutes in a production or broadcast of the program for the prior art process.

The present invention also provides method and apparatus for modifying in real time the video signal that is program video in such a way that the commercial skip system falsely detects or senses the presence of commercials when no commercial exists. This causes certain portions of the program video to be skipped upon playback of the recorded program which in turn discourages a user from the use of the commercial skip system.

Further the present invention provides for circumventing or reducing including for example in real time the effectiveness of a commercial skip system which detects and uses for example a back porch reference a sync signal reference etc. to determine the presence of a commercial in program material.

An alternative embodiment of the present invention provides method and apparatus for reducing including for example in real time the effectiveness of the various techniques mentioned above for reducing or removing the commercial skip system so that the commercial skip system and feature is at least partially restored.

In one embodiment of the invention the effect or effectiveness of the commercial skip system is reduced or removed by adding a selected signal to selected active video lines of the video signal. For example a flat field of about 5 to about 30 or more white level may be added to active line portions of selected lines of the video signal. The added flat field thus constitutes a raised pedestal or offset of from about 10 to 30 IRE units which raises accordingly the level of the video signal such that a fade to black signal indicative of the beginning of a commercial does not occur. Since the commercial skip system relies on sensing a program scene fading to black in order to mark the time location of a commercial the system fails to perform its intended function of skipping that is deleting commercials in the program material being played back.

As may be seen the above embodiment modifies the video signal in portions thereof which are located outside of the commercial transitions for example in the active video signal.

Raising the level of the active video portions of the video signal however causes a corresponding increase in brightness in the viewed program. This brightness change can be compensated for by adjusting the brightness control of the television set upon playback of the video program. In a modification of the above technique further described below the level of the active video portions are such that the brightness change on playback is not objectionable and compensation therefore is not necessary during playback.

Another embodiment of the invention for removing or at least reducing the effectiveness of the commercial skip system comprises modifying the fade to black signal in such a manner as to produce only a fade to non black signal such as for example a gray level signal. A chroma signal added to a black level luminance signal also sufficiently reduces the effects of a commercial skip system.

Other non black signals include for example a station or network logo a gray level signal plus a color signal a color signal alone a random or varying luminance signal and or a random color signal.

The fade to non black signal may take up selected pixels of selected video lines of selected video fields. In addition the intensity of the fade to non black signal may be varied as the program video is fading to the non black signal.

In another embodiment of the invention a non black signal such as mentioned above is inserted in the overscan area of the video picture. By way of example the overscan area may be a few top and or bottom video lines in an active video field which are not normally seen since they are not in the active video area that is are in the overscan region outside of the observable picture displayed on a television set. The overscan area also includes the beginning and or end of selected video lines outside of the active video line portions and generally within the horizontal blanking interval HBI . However this overscan area may encroach a microsecond or more into the beginning and or end of the active video portion.

In a modification of the embodiment using a fade to non black signal when the normal fade to black signals are to be inserted at the beginning of a commercial a partial fade to black is inserted instead. For example a switcher or fader device may provide only 80 or 90 of a fade to black signal thereby providing in essence a fade to non black signal.

Depending upon whether the commercial skip system employs a detector circuit which detects a back porch reference or a sync tip reference other modifications of the video signal may be made to at least reduce the effectiveness of the commercial skip system. For instance if a back porch reference is used by the commercial skip system to detect commercials then lowering a portion of the back porch so as to cause an erroneous reference level for the detection circuit can reduce the commercial skip system effectiveness.

If a sync tip signal is used as a reference then increasing the sync level can also provide an erroneous reference level and attendant reduction of skip system effectiveness.

In still a further embodiment the program video is modified by inserting false fade to black signals from time to time so as to stimulate fading from a program video to black as for a commercial. So for example instead of cuts from scene to scene inserting a fade to black followed by a cut to the scene is a way of causing positive signals which falsely indicate the presence of a commercial in the program video. The end result is that the VCR or PVR skips portions of the program video which in turn discourages a user from employing the commercial skip feature built into the VCR or PVR.

In yet further embodiments of the invention method and apparatus are provided for overcoming audio signal level sensing techniques employed in a type of commercial skip system which detects a higher than normal average audio signal level indicative of the presence of a commercial in the respective video signal. To this end the present invention further contemplates a unique technique for detecting the presence of commercials utilizing audio information in the audio signal.

The present invention further contemplates method and apparatus for defeating or at least reducing the effectiveness of the various commercial skip system defeating embodiments described above so that the commercial skip system is at least partially restored.

To this end given the above discussed skip system defeating embodiment in which the video signal pedestal or offset has been increased to reduce or defeat the skip system a negative signal such as about a 5 to about 15 white signal is added to selected portions of active video lines of the video signal to at least partially restore the commercial skip system.

In another skip system restoring embodiment which counters the above discussed skip system defeating embodiment in which a non black signal is inserted or added to selected portions of the video signal such as the overscan area the fade to non black signal is modified by replacing or attenuating at least a sufficient portion of the non black signal to allow at least partially restoring the commercial skip system.

The various embodiments of the present invention are concerned with reducing or defeating the effectiveness of such a commercial skip system contained in the various types of recorders. Several of these embodiments can be adapted to enhance the effectiveness of a commercial skip system along with further embodiments for providing such enhancement.

To this end illustrates the addition of the invention to the apparatus of as a modifier circuit inserted between the program video source and the transmitter or modulator device . In accordance with the invention the modifier circuit alters the characteristics of the program video such that the effectiveness of a commercial skip system contained in the recorder in sensing and skipping commercials during record and or playback will be reduced or defeated. The modifier circuit for example may raise black levels of at least certain portions of selected video fields in the video signal to thereby cause the commercial skip system in the recorder to have the reduced effectiveness.

It follows that a commercial skip system may use the characteristic of a fade to black transition to detect and or identify a commercial and to then mark and thereafter skip the commercial during a recording and or playback process.

Since raising the level of the active video signal also raises the brightness level of the displayed scene on the television set it may be necessary to lower the brightness by turning down the brightness control on the television set upon playback of the video signal.

To this end a video signal in which a commercial skip system would normally detect commercials is supplied via input to a timing generator similar to timing generator of . Timing generator provides several output signals including for example a selected lines signal a selected pixels signal and a selected overscan lines signal on lines and respectively. Lines and are coupled to inputs of an AND gate whereby gate supplies a signal via a line with a selected logic state indicative of selected video lines and selected video pixels. The signal output from the AND gate is supplied to an OR gate along with the overscan lines signal on line . The output of the OR gate is supplied to the control input of a switch .

The video signal is also supplied to one terminal of a jumper as well as to an input of an adder . The second terminal of the jumper is coupled to a resistor and to a first input of the switch . Resistor is coupled to ground. A second input of switch is coupled to a voltage source which supplies a signal Vsig.. The output of switch is coupled to a second input of the adder and also provides an output signal on an output .

When the jumper is closed the video signal is supplied to the first input of switch and in response to the selected logic level of the control signal from OR gate inserts the waveform signal Vsig. into the video signal during the selected pixels and or the selected lines or the selected overscan lines as determined by the control signal supplied to switch . The resulting output signal on output comprises a modified video signal with a waveform of the signal Vsig. inserted during the duration of the selected pixels and or lines. When the jumper is opened the video signal on input is supplied to the adder and in response to the control signal the switch supplies the signal Vsig. to the adder during the selected pixels lines and or overscan lines. Signal Vsig. is added to the video signal during the selected pixels and or lines and the combined signals are output as a modified video signal on an output .

To this end a fader control circuit receives a video signal e.g. program video on an input A and a Vsig. signal e.g. a non black signal on an input B and in response to a control signal such as the control signal of switches from the fade to black signal to the fade to non black signal and outputs the resulting signal on an output .

When the incoming video signal for example program video fades to black at the input of the circuit the at least partially AC coupled circuit consisting of capacitor resistors and the signal Vbias causes the video signal to have a partial loss of DC restoration. The output of the partially AC coupled circuit is supplied to the amplifier and the output of the latter is supplied at point B to the switch . The switch inserts the partially AC coupled signal in place of the original input video signal for specific lines and or pixels in response to a timing control signal from the timing circuit . As a result a fade to black signal may not fade to a black level or a fade to black signal may have a lag time which occurs before the black signal settles in. Alternatively the output signal of the switch may fade to black for a short interval before a gray level settles in. The resulting video signal is supplied at the output of the switch . Therefore the system of modifies the selected active video portions of the video signal by at least partially AC coupling or partially DC restoring the video signal. This reduces the effectiveness of the commercial skip system.

In clamped video from for example the amplifier of is supplied to a resistor and thence to a capacitor which is coupled to a diode a current source and an amplifier . The diode is coupled to a voltage source Vbias via a resistor . The location of with respect of is defined by the points labeled A and B in the .

In depending on the values of the capacitor and the resistors and or and with a selected current flow setting of Iset for the current source a video signal will exhibit a certain amount of sync clipping that is related or proportional to the APL which then causes black levels to drop with a greater APL. Therefore either or both resistors or are chosen as a finite value preferably non zero so as to allow a certain amount of sync clipping to occur given a current flow setting of Iset. Vbias is set to allow that at low APL levels the blanking level is higher than normal e.g. 7.5 IRE in NTSC while at high APL the black level is at least close to a normal black level e.g. 5 IRE to 10 IRE . The output of the amplifier is then fed to a circuit such as the switch that inserts active video portions to a standard sync signal which may include a color burst signal. The resulting signal is then a video signal that may be used to reduce the effectiveness of a commercial skip signal.

Also depending on the values of the capacitor and resistors and Iset this circuit may partially DC restore the video signal. For example if resistor is close to zero ohm and the capacitor is about 39 micro farads resistor is set to about 1000 ohms Iset is adjusted to about 45 micro amps and Vbias is set to about 0.7 volt the output of amplifier will show a normal blanking level e.g. about zero volt for back porch level for a 100 flat field while a color black signal will show a raised level e.g. the 7.5 IRE black level with blanking level raised by about 10 IRE . Thus when a scene fades to black the circuit of adjusts in a seamless fashion to raise or float the black level. With active portion s of the output of amplifier inserted or switched in with standard sync and or color burst forms a processing circuit that seamlessly adjusts the black level according to the video signal s APL.

The response time of the adjustment or floating of black level may be changed by varying the values of capacitor or of Iset s current flow. Also in the example where Iset is adjusted for 45 micro amps Iset may be replaced with one end of a 135 000 ohm resistor coupled to the cathode of the diode and with the other end of the 135 000 ohm resistor coupled to a negative 6 volt supply. Of course other components or component values are possible to implement a partial DC restoration circuit that is part of a system to reduce the effectiveness of a commercial skip system. For example see .

It should be noted that taking a sample in the HBI such as in a portion of the back porch or a portion of sync tip of the output of will generate a voltage usable for biasing active portions of a video signal to result in a reduction in effectiveness of a commercial skip system. In this instance the sampled voltage varies according to an APL with a smaller voltage sample provided for large APLs and with a larger voltage sample provided for smaller APLs such as a black scene. This sampled e.g. sample and hold voltage is then gated through an active pixel timing generator not shown to sum with the program video signal which then results in a raised or floated black level while keeping substantially correct black levels for a higher APL condition such as near 100 APL.

In order for the circuits of to provide partial DC or black level restoration the resistor may be driven by a low impedance or may be deleted. Thus there is a lossy resistance in series with the DC restoration diode to provide achieving partial DC restoration or black level restoration for example as means for reducing the effectiveness of the commercial skip system.

In the video signal is clipped via the negative peak clipping circuit at a selected clip level which may be for example about 10 to about 15 IRE. The resulting signal supplied to the amplifier then is essentially the active video signal without the normal sync and color burst signals. The sync and color burst signals are added back into the negatively clipped video signal via the switch whereupon the video signal from the circuit of contains raised active video portions which cause a reduction in the effectiveness of the commercial skip system.

The fader control circuit of is further depicted in . illustrates the technique used to achieve the fade signal by varying the proportions of the incoming video signal at input A versus the Vsig signal at input B via the location of an adjustable resistance contact . illustrates the generation of a normal fade to black signal by adjusting the contact to obtain 100 of Vsig at input B and 0 of the video signal at input A. illustrates an alternative technique of providing an output which partially fades to black by selecting a proportion of 90 of the Vsig and 10 of the video signal. It is readily apparent that the percentages of the signals may be varied via the contact to provide a desired effect but the general desire is to not fade to black completely before the commercial is subsequently faded in. The fader or switcher control circuit as described in may be used in a broadcast facility to provide the modified signals for reducing the effectiveness of the commercial skip system in real time.

An alternative commercial skip system may employ commercial detection circuitry which not only receives a video signal but also receives and uses audio signal information to provide commercial detection. illustrates a commercial detection system which includes sensing the audio information to provide for commercial detection such as for example in a commercial skip system of the type which detects an increase in audio signal level as well as a change in the video signal level to determine the presence of a commercial. To this end a video signal is supplied to a fade to black detector or a black field detector whose output is supplied to a logic circuit . An audio signal is supplied to an audio energy determining circuit whose output is supplied to the logic circuit via a threshold detector . The determining circuit is designed to generate an average audio energy function for example an RMS root mean square voltage measuring circuit such that when commercials are present the circuit assigns a higher value to the normally higher average audio signal levels that commercials produce in comparison to the program video for example a movie . The threshold detector is set to trigger an output of for example a high logic level for the higher than average audio level signals from the determining circuit . The logic circuit may consist of a central processing unit CPU which makes a decision based on a video fade to black signal or a black field signal and to a higher than normal audio signal level. Normally program video will fade to black followed by the higher than normal audio level whereupon the logic circuit will output a signal indicative of the presence of a commercial.

In certain situations when the video signal decreases to a substantially black video level in the detector the logic circuit may look for a low in audio energy or for a loss of audio level to determine that a commercial is either about to begin or to end. For example the video fades to black which includes a short interval of audio silence followed by a larger than normal audio volume whereupon a commercial then begins.

The audio processor circuit may be a simple or a more sophisticated that is multiband audio processor which may include an automatic gain control AGC circuit an audio peak limiting circuit or an audio level compressor circuit. Alternatively the audio processor circuit may include an overcompensation circuit such that a large audio signal is not evened out or averaged but is turned down lower than the desired average level. Such an overcompensation in gain reduction is achieved for example by increasing the DC gain following the rectifier circuit in an AGC amplifier.

The output of the modifier circuit may be coupled to a recorder containing a commercial skip system the effectiveness of which will be reduced or defeated in accordance with the invention. also illustrates a system whereby a transmitting cable facility or a broadcast facility has the capability of controlling the commercial skip system associated with for example a consumer s VCR PVR or other recording apparatus.

Referring to if a portion of the H sync signal is modified then a commercial skip system will measure a different value B A . For example the H sync tip level has been reduced and during dark scenes in the video signal the difference B A is less than 40 IRE units in amplitude or lower and thereby may cause the commercial skip system to mis mark the beginning of a commercial.

In a portion of the H sync signal is increased whereby a fade to black signal in the video signal indicating a commercial will be greater than 40 IRE units. Thus the commercial skip system will not mark the beginning of a commercial.

Referring to a black reference level zero 0 is altered since as previously mentioned a commercial skip system may use a portion of the back porch to compare with the active video portion. For instance normally the back porch level is BP and a fade to black before a commercial will yield B BP which is about 0 to 7.5 white. By altering a portion of the black porch such as lowering a portion of the back porch as seen in BP a fade to black before a commercial will yield B BP a number greater than 0 to 7.5 white e.g. greater than 10 IRE units . As a result of the lowered back porch portion the commercial skip system will not see a situation that denotes a fade to black.

Alternatively a portion of the back porch level may be raised as depicted by dashed line and symbol BP to cause B BP to yield 0 to 7.5 white level during a program. This condition will cause a commercial skip system to erroneously mark or identify non commercial portions of the program video as the beginning of a commercial.

It should be noted that the modifications to a portion of sync or to a portion of a back porch can be implemented via insertion and or variable gain means in place of the adder circuit 78.

By way of explanation when program video fades to black for an upcoming commercial a number of black active video fields will occur. By sensing a video field that is below a predetermined level for example black level the signal i.e. a modifying signal may be added to the next video field to disrupt the commercial skip system.

Accordingly the technique employed by this embodiment senses the signal level of the video signal i.e. program video in real time throughout the active portion of the video signal. Any video signal level above a predetermined level is considered a non black program video level whereupon no modifying signal is added.

To this end referring to a video source supplying program video is coupled to an amplifier and also to an input of a summing circuit . The output of amplifier is coupled to a sync separator timing circuit and to a filter . Filter is optional but for example can be a luminance bandwidth filter or a full video bandwidth filter. A purpose for filter is to reduce noise. The output of filter is coupled to a clamp amplifier which preferably clamps the program video to a reference level such as blanking level or a sync tip level. The output of clamp amplifier then is coupled to a comparator . A reference voltage Vref is coupled to one of the inputs of comparator wherein for example Vref may be set to correlate to above black level or about 10 to 15 percent of peak white. Vref may comprise a value slightly greater than a minimum luminance level wherein the minimum luminance level may be derived by the filter and negative peak detector . The output of comparator then becomes for example logic high for any pixel that is above 10 or 15 percent peak white. An AND gate assures that the logic high signal from comparator correlates to a selected portion of the active field and or active line in response to video active line and video active field timing signals supplied to AND gate by active line and active field timing circuits and respectively.

The output of AND gate is coupled to a one shot or flip flop which generates a pulse extending to the VBI. This extended pulse is transferred to a latch to indicate that a previous field had a non black signal. Latch is clocked by a timing Circuit . After the logic pulse of flip flop is transferred to the latch every field a reset pulse from a delay circuit clears the output of flip flop or one shot .

An inverting output of the latch is supplied to an AND gate which also receives the timing signals from the active line and active field timing circuits . The output signal from the AND gate is supplied to a switch and restricts the addition of a signal Vsig. via the switch during selected portions of active fields and or active lines. The signal Vsig. is coupled to one input of the switch the other input being ground.

In the case of a full field being a non black signal the output of the circuits of the comparator AND gate and flip flop will be high in this example. But since the inverting output of the latch is used a logic low from AND gate switches the switch to the ground input. Thus a logic low i.e. a zero level is coupled to the video signal i.e. program video via the switch and the ground input since an attenuator amplifier supplies a logic low to the summing circuit of previous mention. The program video then is supplied from the summing circuit via an output terminal.

However if a full field is truly at black level then the outputs of comparator AND gate and flip flop will be low and the inverting output of the latch will be high. Thus a high logic level or signal is added in this example to the video signal via the switch the signal Vsig. and the attenuator amplifier during a selected portion of the next active field of the program video signal. To enhance the playability of the signal it is preferable that Vsig. be an amplitude or position modulated signal such as a varying ramp signal which raises for example pixel or line levels as a function of time. The modulated signal may increase and decrease in level that is may have varying increasing rates. Of course it is readily apparent that a field store such as for example the delay circuit of may be used to correctly time the added signal to the existing active field rather than to the next active field.

To this end in an input video signal i.e. program video is supplied to a timing circuit which then outputs a signal which is correlated to a portion of the active video signal. A black level field detector receives the input video signal and senses any pixel of a value above black level during a selected portion of a video field determined by the timing circuit and then outputs in real time a selected i.e. low logic level for the next video field. Should there be a portion of a field that has no pixel value above black level the black level field detector will then output an alternative i.e. high logic signal for the next video field. In this instance the output of detector is then combined with the video input signal via an inserting or summing circuit which then outputs the modified black level fields in the video signal to confuse the commercial skip system. It is preferable to combine the delayed signal output from the detector with a delayed input video signal. To this end a delay circuit is illustrated in dashed line and delays the input video signal before supplying it to the summing circuit .

To this end a video signal is received by an automatic black level circuit which also receives for example the first modifying signal as a signal Vsig equivalent to the Vsig of . The circuit thus outputs a video signal in real time in which the black level fields include the first modifying signals. An additional signal adding circuit receives the video signal with shifted black level fields and adds the about 8 IRE boost signals to the previously shifted black level fields as controlled by a Vsignal input .

It follows that the embodiment of results in reduced visibility of the combined modifying pedestal and boost signals by a viewer because about an 8 IRE black level boost that has been readjusted in the television set plus about a 9 IRE pedestal in normally black level fields is barely perceptible to the viewer while causing about a net 17 IRE shift in the black level as seen by the commercial skip system. The approximately 17 IRE shift in black level fields reduces the effectiveness of the commercial skip detector and thus system. Of course values or levels other than 9 and 8 IRE for the first modifying and boost signals respectively may be used.

More particularly the dashed line represents the television set s new black level after the brightness control has been adjusted down slightly . The boost signal added to the portions of the active video signal results in a slight increase in the level as depicted at Vsig. with respect of the television set black level depicted in dashed line. However the commercial skip system has a black level reference denoted by the dashed line and therefore senses a larger signal level shift for the black level fields. This causes an erroneous reading of a reference black level by the commercial skip system thereby reducing in real time the effectiveness of the commercial skip system.

In still other embodiments of the invention other means for reducing or modifying the video signal in accordance with the invention for reducing the effectiveness of a commercial skip system may include first a change in frequency response and or second a non linear transfer function of for example an amplifier situated for example in a broadcast facility. See the circuit of for example. These other means thus can be used to reduce the effectiveness of a commercial skip system and may be implemented in any combination of analog digital RF or software technologies.

To illustrate in the first means of employing a change in frequency response a horizontal line tilt or vertical field rate tilt is created. This tilt or overshoot on a black level signal will cause a higher than normal signal which can be used to reduce the effectiveness of a commercial system. The change in frequency response may be implemented in the modifier circuit of .

To illustrate further an altered frequency response may be implemented via with the elements and of . Capacitor is chosen to cause a lift in frequency response at a selected frequency and preferably another capacitor not shown connected in parallel to resistor is used to shelve the lift at another frequency. Note that the signal from signal source Vbias is an AC ground. Implementing this frequency response alteration when supplied to a commercial skip system will cause tilt or overshoot in the video waveform supplied from the output of the switch or the amplifier which can reduce the effectiveness of a commercial skip system.

Such a frequency response alteration also may be implemented in the RF domain to achieve the results discussed in the previously mentioned paragraph.

Similarly in the second means which employs a non linear transfer function a non linear amplifier included for example in the modifier circuit of may be used to reduce the effectiveness of a commercial skip system. In this embodiment the transfer function or gamma of for example the amplifier is altered to likewise alter the commercial identifying signal supplied to a commercial skip system. An example of altering the transfer function would be to increase the gain for black or dark gray levels. As a result black levels will be boosted to a new higher signal level which generally will reduce the effectiveness of a commercial skip system.

Alternatively illustrates a nonlinear transfer function that compresses or drops some of the black level. This transfer function may be used to at least counter a nonlinear transfer function such as denoted in . also may be used to lower the black levels of a video signal to thereby improve rather than reduce the reliability of a commercial skip system.

In an alternative embodiment of the invention a substantially complementary frequency response curve e.g. undershoot or complementary non linear amplifier e.g. depressed black level may be used to at least partially offset the tilt or boosted black levels of the two previously mentioned means and thereby provide some restoration in effectiveness of a commercial skip system. The complementary effect described in the preceding paragraph also may be used to improve the reliability of a commercial skip system which has not been altered via any of the effectiveness reducing embodiments of the present invention such as those of B C etc. as is further described below.

In regard to alternative embodiments of the invention for at least partially restoring the commercial skip system or at least restoring the capability of commercial detection modified versions of for example and or may be used. To illustrate in either offset signal Vsig. may be inverted in polarity or amplifier may be inverted in gain. Then the output of amplifier will add a negative signal to selected pixels of selected lines of selected fields of the video signal thereby to restore at least part of the commercial skip system s capability. The output thus is a signal that at least partly restores the commercial skip system operation whereby a signal such as the video signal on input has been modified to reduce or defeat the commercial skip system which includes a commercial detector.

Similarly to the conversion of to at least partially restore a commercial skip system may have signal Vsig. modified for example a negative signal to add or to replace a commercial skip system defeat signal for selected pixels of selected lines of selected video fields to at least partly restore the commercial skip system. Here for example the video signal on input had been modified to add positive signal levels at selected time intervals to reduce or defeat the commercial skip system. By modifying signal Vsig. to a negative or inverted signal the outputs and or will have selected portions of the video signal lowered in level to thereby at least partly offset a portion of the added positive levels to at least partly restore the commercial skip system to properly detect commercials.

Referring to a video signal is supplied to a timing circuit a clamp circuit and an adder . The timing circuit supplies a signal coincident with selected active video lines to a control input of a switch . The output of the clamp circuit is a clamped or DC restored signal and is supplied to the input of a track and hold circuit formed of the switch a capacitor and a buffer amplifier . The clamp circuit preferably contains a luminance filter or a chroma reject filter. The output of the buffer amplifier preferably comprises a continuous stream of luminance signal values in response to the timing circuit .

The output of the buffer amplifier is supplied to a negative peak detector or minimum video level detector which determines the minimum luminance signal value which then is supplied to an inverting amplifier . The output of the inverting amplifier is supplied to an optional filter such as a low pass filter and thence to a switch . A timing signal coincident with active portions of selected video lines is supplied to the control input of the switch which in response gates through a negative voltage during the active portions. The output of the switch is supplied to an optional filter which in turn couples a negative level shifting signal to one input of the adder which also receives the video signal. The output of the adder is a combined signal in which the incoming video signal is altered to restore the normal black level in the video signal.

Although the embodiment of is employed hereinabove to restore the effectiveness of a commercial skip system which has been confused or made unreliable by an embodiment of the invention of for example C etc. the system of can also be used to improve or enhance the effectiveness of an existing effective commercial skip system.

More particularly in the process of transmitting a video signal a frequency response distortion or other types of distortion may occur in the video signal between the point of transmission and the point of reception of the signal. At the reception location or facility the receiving apparatus generally will incorporate the distortions as a positive level shift. It follows that such a transmission distortion can cause an existing usually effective commercial skip system to be unreliable. A system such as for example the system of or a system for lowering black levels may be used to compensate for such distortions to at least restore the reliability of the existing commercial skip system or to enhance the effectiveness or restore the normal black level of a commercial skip system which has been defeated or degraded.

To this end the system of or a system for lowering black levels can be incorporated for example in a dual deck recorder wherein a user may wish to dub a second cassette from a previously recorded set of programs on a first cassette. There are products available which will incorporate a commercial skip system in the dual deck recorder whereby the commercial skip system is incorporated into the dubbed copy. The system of then can be used to enhance the effectiveness of the skip system. It is understood that the modification of signals via can be effected in the RF digital or analog domain.

The system of or a system for lowering black levels also may be used in baseband video signals which are supplied to a recorder that incorporates the commercial skip system. If there are transmission distortions in the black level due to transmission or other signal processing errors e.g. incorrectly set black level then the system can be used to help in restoring or otherwise enhancing the effectiveness of the existing commercial skip system.

Accordingly another alternative embodiment of the present invention provides a technique for enhancing the effectiveness that is the reliability of an existing commercial skip system. To this end the various methods and apparatuses of previous description in respect of for example systems for lowering video signals or black levels such as illustrated in etc. can be applied as well to enhance the reliability of the existing commercial skip system in a manner similar to the descriptions of the substantially complementary frequency response curve technique the complementary non linear amplifier technique of lowering black levels or the embodiment of of previous discussion.

Although the present invention has been described and illustrated in detail it to be understood that the same is by way of illustration and example only and is not to be taken by way of limitation.

For example the PVR or VCR may include a storage unit or units which may include a hard drive a CD ROM a tape transport a DVD ROM a DVD R CDR CDRW or memory unit such as RAM or ROM.

That is it is also within the scope of the invention that digital and or analog recorders may include a dual deck or multiple deck system wherein such devices may be comprised for instance of a hard drive or memory CDROM DVD or tape for playback e.g. playback devices with hard drive DVDR CDR or tape or memory for recording e.g. recording devices . Any of the playback devices mentioned above can comprise the program source in and or B. Likewise any of the recording devices as described above can comprise the recorder as denoted in and or B. For instance a recording of a program containing commercials may be played back so that a dub of the recording may contain skipped commercial s . Modifying methods of previous description in accordance with the invention e.g. raising a black level may be used to reduce the effectiveness of skipping commercials in a dubbed copy of the recording. Likewise methods of the alternative embodiments of the invention e.g. reducing a black level as described in the present application may be used to enhance the effectiveness of skipping commercials in a dubbed copy.

Further it is within the scope of the present invention that a set top box or computer receiving information such as for example via phone line cable satellite Internet DSL or fiber communication or the like can be denoted in and or B. In this instance the set top box or computer may receive a signal containing program information which also may contain commercial information for example as part of video on demand VOD pay per view PPV or pay per download PPD commands or the like. A commercial skip system may than be included in the set top box or computer via either software and or hardware. It is readily apparent that any method such as raising or lowering the effective black level mentioned in this invention in the hardware and or software domain will modify the data related to the video information so as to reduce or to restore the effectiveness of a commercial skip system such as for instance when program information is based on a VOD PPV or PPD process.

It is apparent that the recorders containing the commercial skip system may be implemented by selected devices such as typically set top boxes PVRs VCRs and or multiple deck recorders. Also the set top boxes may include tuner recorder hard drive DVDR etc. inside.

Likewise it is apparent that a selected embodiment of the present invention is applicable for example when the reception of information e.g. video data is based on delivery systems such as phone lines high speed connections DSL Internet satellite cable fiber wireless WiFi 802.11 USB IEEE 1394 or the like.

In addition a computer or computer component or software program may emulate a PVR or VCR for an equivalent purpose of recording programs with a commercial skip feature. The computer also may include a network or pocket computer. Further the signal modifications and apparatuses or invention embodiments may be implemented in any combination of the analog RF software and or digital domain.

Although the various embodiments of the invention have been described herein with reference to reducing or restoring the effectiveness of a commercial skip system the invention concepts are equally applicable in similar technology concerning pre recorded tapes DVDs video on demand etc. where program video movies etc. are downloaded etc. In this technology the present invention may be used to reduce or restore the skipping of previews of coming movies promotional material movie trailers messages etc. as well as any commercials.

Thus it is to be understood that the spirit and scope of the present invention is limited only by the terms of the appended claims and their equivalents.

