---

title: Antenna co-location in portable devices for simultaneous receive and transmit
abstract: Systems and methods are disclosed for the co-location of radio frequency (RF) antennas in portable devices, portable devices and their docking stations and related systems, and devices with restrictive space constraints to allow for simultaneous receive (RX) and transmit (TX) operation without degradation. The systems and methods disclosed overcome RX channel degradation, receiver performance, and other problems seen in prior solutions. More particularly, transmit and receive antennas are oriented to provide for cross-polarization of their electro-magnetic fields, are oriented to allow one or both antenna to fall within null regions of the other antenna, and/or oriented with both cross-polarization and null region considerations in mind. Other variations and implementations are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07941194&OS=07941194&RS=07941194
owner: Silicon Laboratories Inc.
number: 07941194
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071116
---
This invention relates to radio frequency communications and more particularly to radio frequency receive and transmit operations in portable devices portable devices and their docking stations and related systems and devices with restrictive space constraints.

Devices and related systems exist that provide radio frequency RF receive RX functionality and RF transmit TX functionality within the same frequency band s within receive bands in which harmonics of the transmit may occur or within closely spaced bands in the frequency spectrum. Such prior systems have used a transmit antenna and a receive antenna that are physically separate. In such devices however the transmit and receive functionality are not operated at the same time because when the receive circuitry and the transmit circuitry and their associated antennas are co located within a single device or a device and its related systems interference from the transmitter will cause degradation in the receiver performance. In other words signals transmitted by the transmit circuitry over the transmit antenna tend to inject unwanted signals into the receive antenna and thus the receive circuitry causing a degradation in receiver performance. For example some portable devices and related systems have an FM transmitter and an FM receiver use an electrically small stub antenna for the FM transmitter and a larger antenna for the FM receiver such as a wavelength antenna in the form of a headphone wire. As stated however such systems typically use some rudimentary method to reduce or avoid interference such as bi modal or half duplex approach to receive and transmit never transmitting when attempting to receive and vice versa.

Existing devices with both RX TX functionality and RX TX antennas have attempted to address the interference from these simultaneous RX TX operations in a number of ways. First some devices operate in half duplex or bi modal mode turning off the transmitter circuitry when the receiver circuitry is running and vice versa. One disadvantage of this option is that the receiver and transmitter cannot operate simultaneously limiting the usefulness of the functionality. Second some devices separate the transmit circuitry and antenna a large distance from the receive circuitry and antenna so that the two functions can operate simultaneously and without degradation. One disadvantage of this second option is that device system size is increased considerably to provide a distance that is adequate to ameliorate or eliminate the degradation in performance. In addition this second option is not practical for many portable devices such as portable navigation devices PNDs handsets and portable media players PMPs because the size requirements for these portable devices are too constrained to allow for adequate spacing between the receive circuitry the transmit circuitry and their respective antennas. Third some devices partition the frequency band to allow the transmit function to generate transmit frequencies only in channels that are far removed from the receive function and its channels. This option severely limits the number of channels in which the transmit and receive functions can operate. Finally some devices use complicated filtering to prevent the transmit signals from affecting the receive channels. This filtering solution requires a large and costly bill of materials BOM and causes parts of the receive band to become unusable for transmit functions or some parts of the receive band unusable for receive functions. This final filtering solution is thus typically costly and complicated. In short each of these prior solutions suffers from significant disadvantages.

Systems and methods are disclosed for the co location of radio frequency RF antennas in portable devices portable devices and their docking stations and related systems and devices with restrictive space constraints to allow for simultaneous receive RX and TX TX operation without degradation. The systems and methods disclosed overcome RX channel degradation receiver performance and other problems seen in prior solutions. More particularly with respect to an FM band implementation the degradation in the FM receive channel quality caused by an FM transmitter operating simultaneously within a close distance or within the same device system is greatly reduced or even eliminated. Thus the disclosed systems and methods allow for co existence of RX and TX operations within a single portable device system such as a portable navigation devices PNDs handsets portable media players PMPs and other systems related to these devices. As described below other features and variations can be implemented if desired and related systems and methods can be utilized as well.

Systems and methods are disclosed for co locating receive RX and transmit TX antennas in portable devices and related systems to allow for simultaneous RX and TX operations. To reduce the impact of and or prevent nearby transmit signals from affecting the receive channels for the receiver it is desirable for the transmit power to be attenuated at the receiving system RX antenna and or receiving circuitry. The systems and methods described herein achieve high levels of such signal attenuation by aligning the TX antenna and the RX antenna so that one or both of the antennas fall within the null of the other are cross polarized with respect to each other or both thereby reducing or even eliminating the interference from the transmitter circuitry antenna to the receiver circuitry antenna.

As described herein electrically small antennas are used for both the RX antenna and the TX antenna. These electrically small antennas are placed in a selected geometry within the device or device module so as to achieve reduced interference that helps to allow the receiver and transmitter to work simultaneously in the vicinity of each without significant performance degradation. As used herein electrically small refers to an antenna that is 1 10 or smaller in size and preferably 1 20 or smaller in size as compared to the wavelength of the frequencies intended to be received and or transmitted. With respect to the stub antennas described below the length of the stub antenna is 1 10 or smaller than the wavelength of frequencies being received and or transmitted. With respect to the loop antennas described below the circumference of the loop antenna is 1 10 or smaller than the wavelength of frequencies being received and or transmitted. Other antenna configurations could also be used as desired with the effective length of the antenna still being selected so as to provide an electrically small antenna. For example various configurations and shapes e.g. serpentine L shaped of trace antennas laid out on a circuit board or semiconductor integrated circuit could be utilized. As described below other features and variations can be implemented if desired and related systems and methods can be utilized as well.

As also described herein the co located TX and RX antennas are placed in close proximity to each other. For the embodiments contemplated herein this close proximity refers to the receive and TX antennas being co located with respect to each other within about one wavelength of the frequencies being received and or transmitted. For FM band therefore the RX and TX antennas would be located within about 3 meters of each other. With respect to handheld portable or small devices and their related systems the co located antennas are preferably placed within about 1 10 or less of a wavelength due to typical device size limitations. For FM band the TX and RX antennas would be placed within about 10 30 cm or less of each other and more preferably within 10 15 cm or less of each other. While the antenna configurations and location techniques are useful for a wide variety of environments they are particularly useful for RX and TX antennas co located in close proximity and used for simultaneous RX and TX operations with respect to handheld portable or small devices and their related systems.

It is also important to note that while much of the discussion below is directed to audio broadcast channels in the FM band FM audio broadcast signals are only one example application for the antenna co location techniques described herein. More generally these techniques are applicable to coexistence and simultaneous operation of RX circuitry and TX circuitry within a common frequency band such as the FM band whether or not frequency modulated signals are being utilized. As such the receivers and transmitters discussed herein can be understood as receivers and transmitters operating within a common frequency band and FM band receivers and FM band transmitters are example embodiments. Further one application for these FM band receivers and FM band transmitters is with respect to FM audio broadcast channels and signals.

As discussed and used herein the FM band relates to the frequency band utilized for FM audio broadcasts. Within the United States and Europe as well as most of the rest of the world FM radio stations are broadcast in the frequency band from about 87.5 MHz to about 108.0 MHz. A 200 KHz channel spacing is used in the United States while a 100 KHz channel spacing is used in Europe. In Japan the FM band for FM audio broadcasts is from about 76 MHz to about 90 MHz. These and other common broadcast bands such as weather band and short wave radio bands are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 272 375 entitled INTEGRATED LOW IF TERRESTRIAL AUDIO BROADCAST RECEIVER AND ASSOCIATED METHOD which is commonly owned by the Assignee of this Application and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The techniques described herein are equally applicable to simultaneous transmit and receive operations within one of these broadcast bands within two or more of these broadcast bands and or some other frequency range where TX and RX frequencies are relatively close together.

It is noted that example receive path circuitry for terrestrial broadcasts including FM radio broadcasts are described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 272 375 entitled INTEGRATED LOW IF TERRESTRIAL AUDIO BROADCAST RECEIVER AND ASSOCIATED METHOD which is commonly owned by the Assignee of this Application and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. It is further noted that example transmit path circuitry including FM band transmissions are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 394 716 filed Mar. 31 2006 and entitled TRANSMITTER ARCHITECTURE which is commonly owned by the Assignee of this Application and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Still further example transceiver circuitry including FM band transceiver operations are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 396 097 filed Mar. 31 2006 and entitled TRANSCEIVER HAVING MULTIPLE SIGNAL PROCESSING MODES OF OPERATION which is commonly owned by the Assignee of this Application and which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

If the RX antenna is placed within the null region for a TX stub antenna or a TX loop antenna the RX antenna will see less radiation from the TX antenna. As contemplated herein where the RX antenna is also electrically small it is possible to locate the RX antenna within these null regions. For larger antennas that are typically used in prior devices for receive operations it is not possible to position the antenna within the null region unless is it placed at a considerable distance from the TX antenna.

To cross polarize stub and or loop antennas the polarization reference directions are made to lay in perpendicular planes to each other. If the RX antenna is placed so that its fields are cross polarized with a TX stub antenna or a TX loop antenna the RX antenna will see less radiation from the TX antenna.

The use of electrically small antennas for both the RX antenna and the TX antenna allows the portable device to take advantage of null alignment and or cross polarization procedures. The relatively small antenna size allows for one or both of the antennas to be placed in the radiation nulls of the other antenna. And the relatively small antenna size allows for the fields of the antennas to be more easily cross polarized at relatively small distances. As described above electrically small refers to an antenna that is 1 10 are smaller in size and preferably 1 20 or smaller in size than the wavelength of the frequencies intended to be received and or transmitted. With respect to the stub antennas described below length of the stub antenna is 1 10 or smaller than the wavelength of frequencies being received and or transmitted. With respect to the loop antennas described below the circumference of the loop antenna is 1 10 or smaller than the wavelength of frequencies being received and or transmitted. Other antenna configurations could also be used as desired with the effective length of the antenna still being selected so as to provide an electrically small antenna.

It is noted that the above antenna solutions preferably use resonated antennas such that both the TX antenna and the RX antenna are resonated at the desired RX TX frequencies. To resonate the antennas at different frequencies a variable matching network can be utilized.

The use of electrically small antennas causes the antennas to be small enough to effectively fall within the minima or null of the other antenna. By identifying these nulls the antennas can be positioned so that interference from the TX antenna to the RX antenna can be reduced or minimized. In addition the electrically small antennas can be positioned so that their radiation is cross polarized thereby reducing or minimizing the interference from the TX antenna to the RX antenna. As discussed above the antennas can be positioned with consideration given only to nulls only to cross polarization or both to nulls and cross polarization. Using these techniques the receiver performance can be improved during simultaneous operation of the transmitter.

It is noted that other considerations and techniques could be also be used as desired in locating the antennas. It is noted further that the need for simultaneous transmit and receive in the same frequency band is not a common requirement for many devices or portable devices. Although the systems and methods described herein are applicable to a wide range of devices portable devices and related systems in which simultaneous transmit and receive operations are desired the systems and methods described herein are particularly useful for such devices in which transmit and receive is occurring within in the same frequency band.

One such application is for portable navigation devices PNDs . A PND is typically a device that uses digital maps and a GPS global position system receiver to provide navigation aids. In addition for PNDs it is desirable to both transmit within the FM audio broadcast band and receive within the FM audio broadcast band. The FM transmit operation is used for example to send voice direction information to an FM audio broadcast receiver within a vehicle stereo system so that a driver can hear driving directions determined by the PND. The FM transmit operation can also be used to send audio information such as music from compressed digital audio files to an FM receiver. For example the PND can be used as a portable music player that can send the music or other audio information for reception by a vehicle s stereo system. The FM receive operation is used for example to receive terrestrial FM broadcasts of traffic information such as traffic message channel TMC broadcasts. This traffic information can be used by the PND to route or reroute a driver around particular driving hazards or traffic hazards. The GPS receiver within the PND is typically used to determine the location of the PND with respect to one or more digital maps. And the GPS receiver will typically include a GPS antenna coupled to GPS receive circuitry to receive and process signals from a plurality of GPS satellites. It is noted that TMC information is often provided as traffic information in Radio Data System RDS information broadcast along with an FM broadcast channel. Currently traffic information broadcasts are provided for example by navigation device and map companies such as Tele Atlas which is based in The Netherlands.

The FM receive operation may also used for example to gather quantitative information about the FM band such as signal quality of various channels. As a further example the FM receive operation may also be used to gather additional RDS information such as Open Data Application ODA information. Because each of these additional operations are preferably performed constantly and or consistently while the transmitter may or may not be operational it is important for the FM receive operation to function without degradation while the FM transmit function is simultaneously transmitting.

Due to degradation in receiver performance with the simultaneous operation of a transmitter within the same FM band PNDs have not before been implemented to have simultaneous operation of FM transmit and receive. For example in a PND device or system having an FM transmitter and FM tuner the FM tuner performance can degrade significantly due to the simultaneous operation of the FM transmitter because of the close proximity of the two antennas. In particular when the FM tuner is tuned to an off air broadcast channel and the FM transmitter were to be turned on for transmission on a given FM channel the tuner will experience significant degradation in performance. This degradation can be caused for example by an automatic gain control AGC circuit with the FM receive path engaging to keep the a low noise amplifier LNA input from saturating. The PND environment is one in which a relatively weak FM signal is being received TMC broadcast while a relatively strong signal is being transmitted FM band transmit in close proximity where there is a relatively small separation between the receive frequency and the transmit frequency e.g. both within FM band .

Using the null alignment and or the cross polarization techniques described herein the FM tuner can be operated at the same time as the FM transmitter without experiencing significant degradation. This simultaneous operation allows the PND to receive TMC broadcasts while also transmitting audio information through the FM transmitter. In a vehicle implementation this simultaneous operation allows a user to listen to digital audio files stored on the PND through the FM receiver of the vehicle while the PND is also receiving TMC broadcasts. The PND can also be configured to interrupt the digital audio file playback with audible navigation prompts to the user. As described above the PND can be implemented as a single device with both an FM transmit antenna and an FM receive antenna. The PND can also be implemented as a two module system having a docking module and a portable module. The docking module can be attached to a car window and can receive the portable module when the user is driving the car. If desired the docking module can be configured to have the FM receive antenna and the portable module can be configured to have the FM transmit antenna.

As described above the antenna configurations described herein can be used with PND devices and modular systems to provide simultaneous TMC broadcast reception and FM transmit. The antenna configurations described herein can also be used for simultaneous transmit and receive operations for other applications and in other devices and frequency bands as desired. For example receiving weather band WB broadcasts with a receive antenna while also transmitting FM band signals with a transmit antenna would also be a effective solution utilizing the techniques described herein. More generally the techniques described herein are useful where a transmit and receive system function simultaneously in close proximity to each other and where the frequencies of one system are within about three times 3 the frequencies of the other system.

Further modifications and alternative embodiments of this invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of this description. It will be recognized therefore that the present invention is not limited by these example arrangements. Accordingly this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the manner of carrying out the invention. It is to be understood that the forms of the invention herein shown and described are to be taken as the presently preferred embodiments. Various changes may be made in the implementations and architectures. For example equivalent elements may be substituted for those illustrated and described herein and certain features of the invention may be utilized independently of the use of other features all as would be apparent to one skilled in the art after having the benefit of this description of the invention.

