---

title: Notifying network contacts of inquiries
abstract: A method, computer-readable medium, and user interface for displaying an inquiry indication related to an inquiring user's inquiry are described. An inquiring user prepares and submits an inquiry in an inquiry application. Upon preparing and submitting an inquiry, a notice of the inquiry is generated and routed to the inquiring user's network contacts. An inquiry indication is generated to notify network contacts that an inquiry has been submitted by the inquiring user. A network contact may select the inquiry indication to display an inquiry feature and may select an inquiry feature to view the inquiry and respond to the inquiry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07957510&OS=07957510&RS=07957510
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07957510
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070123
---
The Internet provides a vast amount of resources that may be searched to find information pertaining to specific issues or questions. However even though a vast amount of information is available on the Internet the specific information desired may not exist or may be difficult to locate. As the Internet develops several applications have evolved that allow Internet users to find information that is difficult to locate or is not available on the Internet. For example when a user cannot find the information on the Internet by performing a simple search users may prepare and post specific questions or comments for which other Internet users may respond utilizing inquiry applications such as Windows Live QnA. The responses may provide the posting user among others with the desired information.

Unfortunately responding users may not sufficiently respond to specific questions or comments thereby leaving a posting user without the desired information. In one instance users do not respond to a specific question or comment posted by another user. In another instance responding users may share limited similar characteristics interests or perspectives with the posting user and accordingly post a non useful response. Therefore while existing inquiry applications allow users to prepare and post specific questions the inquiring user may still not receive the information he desires.

Network contacts such as friends family and co workers are more likely to provide an adequate response to a specific question or comment than non network contacts. For example a person who is a network contact of a posting user is more likely to provide a response and share similar characteristics interests or perspectives with the posting user. However existing web applications do not provide the ability for a posting user to share a publicly posted question or comment with the posting user s network contacts.

Accordingly for a network contact to respond to a friend s question or comment in existing web applications it might be difficult to locate the specific question or comment. A posting user may manually e mail a link for each question to network contacts however independently communicating with network contacts is not efficient and the e mail may be disregarded by network contacts as SPAM type e mail.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments described below are directed to displaying an inquiry indication related to a user s inquiry. An inquiring user prepares and submits an inquiry such as a question in an inquiry application such as an Internet question and answer application. Upon preparing and submitting the inquiry a notice of the inquiry is automatically generated and routed to one or more network contacts of the inquiring user.

An inquiry indication such as an icon in a contact list notifies a network contact that an inquiry has been submitted by the inquiring user. Once the inquiry indication is displayed a network contact may select the inquiry indication to display an inquiry feature such as the question title. A network contact may then select an inquiry feature such as the question title having an embedded link to the inquiry in an inquiry application.

The subject matter described herein is presented with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However the claimed subject matter is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Rather it is contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the terms step and or block may be used herein to connote different elements of methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

Embodiments of the present invention provide techniques for notifying at least a portion of an inquiring user s one or more network contacts. In general embodiments described herein relate to methods computer readable media and graphical user interfaces for inquiry indication.

Accordingly in one embodiment the present invention relates to methods for inquiry indication. A method may include receiving notice of an inquiry displaying at least one inquiry indication receiving a request to display at least one inquiry feature displaying at least one inquiry feature receiving a request to display an inquiry and displaying an inquiry.

In another embodiment the present invention relates to computer readable media having computer executable instructions embodied thereon for performing the methods described herein.

In yet another embodiment the present invention is directed to graphical user interfaces for inquiry indication. The graphical user interfaces for inquiry indication may include an inquiry interface an inquiry preferences interface a network contact interface such as a web application interface or an instant message application interface an inquiry feature interface and inquiry response interface.

Having briefly described an overview of embodiments of the present invention an exemplary operating environment suitable for use in implementing embodiments of the present invention is described below.

As shown in an exemplary system includes an inquiry application and a sharing application . Inquiry application is an application that allows users such as inquiring users to prepare and post an inquiry and allows other users such as other Internet users to respond to the inquiry. The other Internet users may include network contacts of the user posting the inquiry. Network contacts are users that are listed in an inquiring user s contact list. Network contacts may include an inquiring user s friends family co workers etc. In one embodiment inquiry application may include a web application that resides on a server that is configured to support interoperable machine to machine communication between client computing devices. Exemplary inquiry applications may include applications having a public posting forum such as Windows Live QnA Yahoo Answers Askville by Amazon etc. The inquiry application may include an application programming interface API configurable to access a database. Examples of such APIs include without limitation active data objects ADO remote data objects RDO and the like.

Sharing Application is an application that resides on a server and enables communication over a network including for example blogging picture sharing and contact listing. Exemplary sharing applications include Windows Live Spaces Yahoo 360 and myspace.com .

Storage mechanism stores data pertaining to inquiry application such as questions answers comments etc. Storage mechanism stores contact information such as telephones emails and addresses of users that may be utilized with inquiry application sharing application and instant message application . The instant message application allows a user to communicate with other users in real time and displays the conversation of all participating users on one screen. The instant message application may be a stand alone application that resides on a client machine. Exemplary instant message applications include Windows Live Messenger AIM and Google Talk . Storage mechanism stores profiles and pictures to be utilized by the sharing application . Profile information may include user interests and pictures. Although storage mechanisms and are depicted as being three separate databases it will be appreciated that storage mechanisms and may be integrated into any number of data stores including one data store.

An inquiring user prepares and submits an inquiry to an inquiry application. In one embodiment an inquiring user utilizes a web browser such as Internet Explorer on a client computing device to access an inquiry application such as Windows Live QnA Yahoo Answers Askville by Amazon etc.

Web browser and instant message application reside on client computing devices and either may be utilized for displaying an inquiry indication. Accordingly a network contact may be a web browser user an instant message application user or a combination thereof. A web browser user utilizes a web browser to access inquiry application or sharing application . For example a web browser user may open Internet Explorer browser type in the URL address of an inquiry application and or sharing application to view an inquiry indication. However in most instances an instant message application residing on the client computer is utilized for displaying an inquiry indication.

An inquiry indication is displayed to notify the network contact of the inquiry or comment. An inquiry indication is displayed in the contact list provided in an e mail service not shown web browser or instant message application . The inquiry indication may be an indication icon an inquiring user name format an inquiry subject an inquiry title a link to the user inquiry a sound a format technique or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the inquiry indication may be positioned adjacent to the inquiring user s name in the contact list. In another embodiment the inquiry indication may be positioned near the inquiring user s name in the contact list. In yet another embodiment the inquiry indication may simply be positioned in the contact list. Alternatively the inquiry indication may notify the network contact of the inquiry or comment by displaying the indication in a feed of contact updates. For example in a sharing application a network contact may view a listing of updates pertaining to sharing application contacts such as the inquiring user. The updates may include for example a recently posted inquiry or comment an updated profile an added photograph an added blog entry etc. The inquiry indication may be positioned near the inquiring user s name in the listing of updates.

As previously mentioned in one embodiment a network contact may view the inquiry indication displayed within a contact list. For example a network contact may utilize a web browser which accesses inquiry application or sharing application to view their contact list and thereby view the inquiry indication. Alternatively a network contact may utilize an instant message application and may upon login view the contact list automatically.

By way of illustration a first client computing device is an inquiring user s computer second and third client computing devices are computers being utilized by network contacts and a fourth client computing device is a computer belonging to an individual that is not an inquiring user s network contact. Accordingly if the inquiring user on the first client computing device designates all network contacts to view the inquiry indication the inquiry indication is only displayed by the second and third client computing devices being utilized by network contacts. Alternatively the inquiring user on the first client computing device may choose to notify only the network contact using the second client computing device. Thus an inquiry indication is only displayed by the second client computing device.

If the inquiring user designates either automatically or manually at least a portion of the one or more network contacts to view the inquiry indication and the inquiry is submitted to inquiry application the inquiry is posted on the corresponding website and the inquiring user s name time when the inquiry was posted and the location of the really simple syndication RSS feed for the inquiry content is stored in storage mechanism . Essentially inquiry application updates a time stamp in storage mechanism to indicate a new inquiry for the particular inquiring user.

To display the inquiry indication the web browser accessing the inquiry application or sharing application or the instant message application compares its time stamps with the time stamps in storage mechanism for each network contact. In one embodiment the inquiry application sharing application or instant message application time stamps are stored time values associated with each instance a network contact logs in to the respective application. The comparison of time stamps may occur at the time the network contact logs in utilizing the web browser or instant messaging application or periodically during the time the network contact is logged in utilizing the web browser or instant message application.

If storage mechanism has an updated time stamp indicating new content the inquiry indication is displayed. Accordingly in addition to storing contact information storage mechanism also stores the software that implements the APIs used to display the inquiry indication. In one embodiment the software that implements APIs used to display the inquiry indication may be stored in another storage mechanism. The APIs used to display the inquiry indication may employ numerous methods for displaying the inquiry indication. For example in one embodiment an inquiry indication may be displayed for each new inquiry posted by an inquiring user since the last network contact login or within a particular time span e.g. within 24 hours . In another embodiment a single inquiry indication may be displayed for multiple inquiries posted by an inquiring user since the last network contact login or within a particular time span e.g. within one week . In yet another embodiment multiple inquiry indications or a single inquiry indication may be displayed for multiple or single inquiries posted by multiple inquiring users since the last network contact login or within a particular time span e.g. within one month .

Upon receiving an inquiry indication an inquiry feature may be displayed. illustrates a system for displaying at least one inquiry feature in a network user s contact list. A network contact may select the inquiry indication displayed in the contact list to view at least one inquiry feature . An inquiry feature may include an inquiry subject an inquiry title an inquiry detail s a link to the inquiry application having the user inquiry or a combination thereof. An inquiry subject may be a general topic or category of the inquiry. An inquiry title may be the title of the question or the question itself. Inquiry details may be the detailed question posted or specific details regarding the question. A URL link to the inquiry application posting the user inquiry allows the network contact to view the posted inquiry.

In one embodiment the inquiry features may include features of inquiries previously posted by the inquiring user. Alternatively the inquiry features may include features of inquiries posted by an inquiring user within a particular time period e.g. within 24 hours . In yet another embodiment the inquiry features may include inquiry features of inquiries posted since the time the network contact last logged in. The inquiry features to be displayed to a network contact may be determined by the network contact user the inquiry application provider the sharing application provider the instant message application provider the inquiring user or a combination thereof.

In an embodiment where a network contact selects an inquiry indication displayed in a contact list a request to sharing application is issued. Sharing application then transmits the request to storage mechanism and accesses the location of the inquiry content for a particular inquiring user. Sharing application uses the location of the inquiry content to retrieve inquiry features such as an inquiry title an inquiry detail a link to the user inquiry or a combination thereof. Sharing application retrieves the inquiry features by reading the RSS feed for a particular inquiring user and subsequently the web browser or instant message application accesses the inquiry features from sharing application . In one embodiment sharing application is not used inquiry application or an alternative application performs functions similar to those performed by sharing application .

If an inquiry feature displayed is a link or embedded link to the inquiry once the link is selected the network contact is linked via a URL to the inquiry application and inquiry is displayed to the network contact user. In one embodiment inquiry features are not used and the network user may be automatically linked to the inquiry application to view the inquiry upon selection of the inquiry indication. In another embodiment upon selection of the inquiry indication the inquiry may be displayed in the form of an inquiry feature and the network contact may not be linked to the inquiry application thus the network contact may respond to the inquiry via a method alternative to the inquiry application such as instant messaging blogging or e mailing.

With reference to a flow diagram is illustrated showing a method for notifying an inquiring user s network contacts of an inquiry in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Method is but one example of a suitable method the invention is not limited to this example.

Initially at block notice of an inquiry is received. The inquiry originates from an inquiring user preparing an inquiry and requesting transmission the inquiry to at least a portion of the one or more network contacts of the inquiring user. In one embodiment the inquiring user may designate specific network contacts to receive notice of an inquiry or may designate all network contacts to receive notice of an inquiry. In another embodiment the inquiring user may designate a group of network contacts to receive notice of an inquiry such as friends family or co workers. In still another embodiment the notice of an inquiry is automatically transmitted to network contacts.

Upon receiving notice of an inquiry at least one inquiry indication is displayed to the one or more designated network contacts of the inquiring user at block . An inquiry indication serves to notify a network contact that an inquiring user has submitted an inquiry. In one embodiment the inquiry indication is displayed in the contact list of the network contact. The contact list may be accessed by a network contact user via an instant message application or via a web browser accessing a sharing application or an inquiry application or the like. In one embodiment the inquiry indication may be displayed adjacent or near the inquiring user s name. In another embodiment where the notice is an email message sent to the network contact the inquiry indication is a display of the email message.

At block a request to display at least one inquiry feature is received. A network contact using a web application or an instant message application may request at least one inquiry feature to be displayed by selecting the inquiry indication. In one embodiment the inquiry indication may be selected by clicking on the inquiry indication while the cursor is over the inquiry indication. In another embodiment the inquiry indication may be selected by hovering the cursor over the inquiry indication. In yet another embodiment block may be eliminated and the network contact may select the inquiry indication having an embedded link and link to the inquiry application to view the inquiry posted by the inquiring user.

At block at least one inquiry feature is displayed. The inquiry feature to be displayed to a network contact may be determined by the network contact user the inquiry application provider the sharing application provider the instant message application provider the inquiring user or a combination thereof. Inquiry features to be displayed may be selected manually by algorithm e.g. most frequently viewed or some other manner. Additionally the layout of inquiry features may be organized by the network contact user the inquiry application provider the sharing application provider the instant message application provider the inquiring user or a combination thereof.

At block a request to display the inquiry is received. In one embodiment the network contact may request the inquiry be displayed by selecting an inquiry feature or inquiry indication such as text or a picture having an embedded link. The inquiry indication or inquiry feature may be selected by providing input such as a mouse click while the cursor is over the inquiry indication. In yet another embodiment block may be eliminated. For instance upon selection of the inquiry indication the inquiry may be displayed in the form of an inquiry feature. The network contact may then respond to the inquiry via a method alternative to the inquiry application such as instant messaging blogging or e mailing. At block the inquiry is displayed via the inquiry application.

With reference to in operation an inquiry application displays a forum allowing users to prepare and post inquiries on a client computing device. The inquiring user can prepare an inquiry on the inquiry application . Inquiry may be any question comment or series of questions or comments that may generate a discussion or generate responses to an inquiry. The prepared inquiry is displayed in user interface as indicated in . The inquiring user may also prepare inquiry details to be posted on the inquiry application . In one embodiment inquiry details may be combined with inquiry . In another embodiment inquiry details are not entered. The inquiry and inquiry details may be entered in to a text box as shown in .

Upon preparing inquiry and inquiry details if desired the inquiring user may select a continue button to continue preparing the inquiry. In one embodiment a selection to continue preparing the inquiry may be made by a right click or a menu selection. In another embodiment a selection to continue preparing the inquiry may be eliminated thereby permitting all inquiry preparation to be performed on one user interface.

Upon selecting continue button with reference to a display for entering additional inquiry information is provided. Inquiry and inquiry details are displayed along with a link embedded in text or a picture such that the inquiring user may edit the inquiry or inquiry details. In one embodiment inquiry and or inquiry details need not be displayed.

The inquiring user may tag the inquiry as illustrated in . Tagging an inquiry provides a general topic or category for the inquiry so that the inquiry may be categorized and organized by the specified tag. In one embodiment inquiry tags may determine the network contacts notified of the inquiry. For example only network contacts having an interest in sports will be notified of a sports related inquiry. In another embodiment tagging the inquiry may be eliminated.

Further in the graphical user interface of the inquiring user may designate that an inquiry indication be received by network contacts. In one embodiment the inquiring user may select specific network contacts to receive the inquiry indication. In another embodiment the inquiring user may select a category of network contacts such as family friends co workers etc. to receive the inquiry indication. In yet another embodiment the designation may be eliminated and the inquiry indication may be automatically displayed to either all network contacts a group of network contacts or a specific category of network contacts. In the embodiment with only one interface for inquiry preparation the designation of network contacts to receive an inquiry indication is on the single interface.

In one embodiment the graphical user interface may display related questions such that the inquiring user may view previous related inquiries and decide whether to submit the inquiry based upon the previous responses. Upon finalizing the inquiry details the inquiring user may select to submit the inquiry to generate responses.

After submitting the inquiry the designated network contacts are notified of the inquiry. illustrates one embodiment of a graphical user interface displayed to a designated network contact using an instant message application. Instant message application interface includes window network contact status indicator within window a contact list contact username for each contact and an inquiry indication . Each time a network contact logs on to an instant message application an server provides contact list to the network contact s instant message application and indicates inquiring users in the contact list that have submitted an inquiry into the inquiry application. In one embodiment a network contact using an instant message application has numerous contacts listed in contact list . In another embodiment a network contact using an instant message application may have only one contact listed in contact list . Inquiry indication serves to notify a network contact that an inquiring user has submitted an inquiry.

The inquiry indication shown in may alternatively take the form of a change in color surrounding the online indicator for a contact an indication icon an inquiring user name format an inquiry subject an inquiry title a link to the user inquiry a sound a highlighted contact username or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the inquiry indication is located adjacent or near the username so as to visually display the inquiring user and inquiry association. In another embodiment the inquiry indication may be located anywhere in the contact list of the instant message application so as to provide the network user with a general knowledge that an inquiring user has submitted a recent inquiry.

With reference to user interface is displayed upon selection of an inquiry indication. The client messenger interface of receives input by the network contact selecting inquiry indication . Once selected the instant message application retrieves and displays the inquiry feature window of . Inquiry feature window includes inquiry features and . Inquiry feature provides the network user with the user name of the inquiring user thereby identifying the user who submitted the inquiry. Inquiry feature displays the inquiring user s inquiry having an embedded link so that the network contact user may link directly to the inquiring user s inquiry and respond to the inquiry. Inquiry feature includes various methods in which the network contact user may contact the inquiring user to respond to the inquiry ask a question pertaining to the inquiry etc. Inquiry feature window may display a variety of inquiry features including tags and inquiry details. In one embodiment the inquiry feature window may not be displayed and selecting the inquiry indication may link the network contact user directly to the inquiry submitted to the inquiry application.

Finally illustrates a graphical user interface displaying the inquiry submitted to the inquiry application such as inquiry application of . When a network contact selects inquiry feature of having an embedded link to the inquiry the network contact user is linked to the inquiry within inquiry application. Alternatively graphical user interface may also be displayed upon selecting the inquiry indication of . Graphical user interface provides the inquiry inquiry details associated tags a link for answering the inquiry the username of the inquiring user answers previously submitted by other responders which may be other network contacts or other Internet users and related questions . In one embodiment only a text box for preparing an answer and a link for submitting an answer may appear. In another embodiment various attributes including those mentioned above and additional attributes may be viewed in graphical user interface . Even though network contacts or selected network contacts are notified the inquiry may be posted on the inquiry application to be answered by all inquiry application users.

The present invention has been described herein in relation to particular embodiments which are intended in all respects to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains without departing from its scope.

From the foregoing it will be seen that this invention is one well adapted to attain ends and objects set forth above together with other advantages which are obvious and inherent to the system and method. It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations. This is contemplated by and is within the scope of the claims.

