---

title: Distribution of information protection policies to client machines
abstract: One embodiment includes a method which may be practiced in a computing environment where resources are distributed. The method includes acts for obtaining policy information defining restrictions on resources distributed in the computing environment. The method includes sending a request to a server for metadata about one or more resource protection policies at the server. In response to the request, metadata about one or more resource protection polices at the server is received from the server. The metadata from the server is analyzed. Based on analyzing the metadata, one or more resource protection policies stored at the client are updated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08156538&OS=08156538&RS=08156538
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08156538
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071218
---
Computers and computing systems have affected nearly every aspect of modern living. Computers are generally involved in work recreation healthcare transportation entertainment household management etc.

In computing systems resources can be transferred within systems and accessed by entities within the computing system using applications. Examples of such resources may include documents files or other information. It is often desirable to control how resources are accessed and used within a computing system. For example it may be desirable to only allow certain actions to be performed on a document depending on various factors. Illustratively some users may be allowed full access privileges to a document including the ability to open save edit unrestricted forward print etc. For other users it may be desirable to limit privileges such as for example to read only or some other restriction.

Generally restrictions can be enforced by an application used to access the resource referencing resource protection policies. The applications may be configured to not provide access to a resource without reference to a resource protection policy. Currently two problems exist with managing information protection policies used to protect content. Firstly most information protection systems need to solve the problem of policy distribution to entities within an a computing system. Often times policies published by a policy server are distributed to client machines through an out of band mechanism. To create this out of band distribution mechanism is an additional overhead for enterprise administrators. Also the distribution mechanism can break at times when the out of band mechanism used for template distribution fails to execute as expected.

Secondly every protection enabled application may have its own way of locating policies on a client machine because of the lack of a standard way to obtain the policies. For instance some applications use a registry key that points to a folder that holds the policies. This makes maintenance and use of policies on machines very difficult.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one exemplary technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

One embodiment includes a method which may be practiced in a computing environment where resources are distributed. The method includes acts for obtaining policy information defining restrictions on resources distributed in the computing environment. The method includes sending a request to a server for metadata about resource protection policies at the server. In response to the request metadata about resource protection polices at the server is received from the server. The metadata from the server is analyzed. Based on analyzing the metadata resource protection policies stored at the client are updated.

Another embodiment includes a method which may be practiced in a computing environment where resources are distributed. The method includes acts for providing policy information defining restrictions on resources distributed in the computing environment. The method includes receiving a request from a client for metadata about resource protection policies at a server. In response to the request for metadata about resource protection polices at the server the method includes sending metadata about resource protection polices at the server to the client.

Yet another embodiment includes a method which may be practiced in a computing environment where resources are distributed. The method includes acts for providing policy information defining restrictions on resources distributed in the computing environment. The method includes receiving a request from an application for metadata about resource protection policies at a client. In response to receiving a request from the application for metadata about resource protection policies at the client metadata about resource protection policies at the client is sent to the application. In response to sending metadata to the application about resource protection policies at the client a request is received for resource protection policies from the application. In response to receiving a request for resource protection policies from the application resource protection policies are sent to the application.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Additional features and advantages will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the teachings herein. Features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. Features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

Some embodiments may be implemented to allow greater administrator control and to provide a known location where resource protection policies can be obtained if needed. Further some embodiments may be implemented where resource protection policies may be cached locally such that applications can obtain resource protection policies without the need to connect to an external server to determine the location of the resource protection policies.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an example environment where one embodiment may be practiced. illustrates a policy server . The policy server includes a policy store which stores resource protection policies. The policy store may be implemented using any of a number of different stores including databases files such as XML files containing all policies directories of files etc. The resource protection policies include information specifying how resources can be handled. For example in one example a resource may be a document. Resource protection policies applicable to the document may specify how the document may be accessed and what actions may be performed on the document. For example resource protection policies may specify that certain users have full access to the document allowing them read write delete unrestricted forward print etc. The resource protection policies may specify that other users have some restrictions on their handling of the document. For example resource protection policies may specify that a user is allowed to only read a document. Other policies may specify that certain users are not allowed to forward the document to others. Other policies may allow the document to be forwarded but may restrict to whom the documents may be forwarded. Those of skill in the art will recognize that other policies may be implemented as well. Additionally resources may be embodied in one or more forms including in documents as illustrated in the examples above or as other files or data structures.

The restrictions or privileges specified by polices are enforced by policy aware applications such as application illustrated in . To enforce policies the applications should have access to the policies to be enforced. The following discussion illustrates one example of how policies can be provided to the applications.

The system illustrated in illustrates that a local machine includes a policy client and the application . The policy client includes functionality for acting as a local repository of policies by storing the policies in a policy store .

In an alternative embodiment the request may be generated by the policy aware application . For example in one embodiment the policy aware application may send a request for policy information when needed for administering policy based privileges for a resource.

Notably embodiments may be implemented where the policy client includes an application programming interface API that is accessible by the task or the application .

Once the metadata is received at the policy client the policy client can analyze the metadata such as by comparing the metadata to policies stored in the policy store at the policy client . Based on the analysis of the metadata policies at the policy store of the policy client are updated. Updating the policies of the policy store may include one or more of a number of different activities. For example in one instance updating the policies at the policy store may include obtaining new policies from the policy server as will be explained in more detail below. In another instance updating policies at the policy store may include obtaining a different version of a policy from the policy server . In yet another instance updating policies stored at the policy store may include deleting one or more policies previously stored at the policy store .

Illustrating now an example of obtaining new policies or different versions of policies the policy client may send a request for policies from the policy server . The request may be embodied in a number of different forms. For example the request may be may be a request for one some or all of the policies. The policy server in response to the request returns one or more policies to the policy client . The policies can then be stored in the policy store at the policy client .

In the example illustrated in once the policy client has updated policies in the policy store or has determined that no updates are needed the policy client may send a an indication to the application or to the task as appropriate indicating that the policy client has a current repository of policies.

The application may then send a request for metadata to the policy client . In response the policy client sends metadata to the application where the metadata includes information about policies stored at the policy store . The application can then analyze the metadata and determine that a request for policies is appropriate. The application then sends a request for policies . The policies are then sent from the policy client to the application .

Referring now to a method is illustrated. The method may be practiced in a computing environment where resources are distributed and includes acts for obtaining policy information defining restrictions on resources distributed in the computing environment. The method includes sending a request to a server for metadata about resource protection policies at the server act . For example as illustrated in a request is sent to the policy server from the policy client . Notably the server may function as a known location where a user can obtain policy information.

Sending a request to a server for metadata about resource protection policies at the server in some embodiments is performed in response to receiving a request from a task. The task is configured to cause the client to obtain metadata about resource protection policies according to a predetermined schedule. For example as illustrated in a task may be implemented to send a request to the policy client to direct the policy client to send the request for metadata . Sending the request for metadata could also be triggered by an event such as logging onto the machine establishing network connectivity etc. Additionally in some embodiments the policy client includes functionality for synchronizing templates at the store so that the store on the policy client is current.

Alternatively for some embodiments as discussed previously herein sending the request to a server for metadata about resource protection policies at the server is performed in response to receiving a request from an application requiring resource protection policies to access or protect a resource. For example as illustrated in the application may send a request to the policy client which causes the policy client to send the request for metadata and to synchronize templates at the store .

The client may include an application programming interface API . The request to a server for metadata about resource protection policies at the server may be performed in response to receiving a request at the API. For example the task or application may use the API to cause the policy client to send the request .

In response to the request metadata about resource protection polices at the server is received from the server act . For example as illustrated in the metadata is received from the policy server at the policy client .

The method further includes analyzing the metadata from the server act . Based on analyzing the metadata resource protection policies stored at the client are updated. Updating resource protection policies stored at the client may include a number of different activities. For example in one embodiment updating resource protection policies includes obtaining a different version of a policy previously stored at the client from the server. For example the policy client may include a policy in the policy store . A different version of the policy may be stored at the policy store at the policy server . As such updating resource protection policies may include obtaining a new version of the policy stored at the policy store from the policy store at the policy server .

In an alternative embodiment updating resource protection policies stored at the client may include obtaining a new policy not previously stored at the client from the server. For example the policy server may include policies stored at the policy store which are not included in the policy store at the policy client . Thus updating resource protection policies may include obtaining policies from the policy store at the policy server and storing those policies at the policy store at the policy client .

In yet another alternative embodiment updating resource protection policies stored at the client may include deleting a policy previously stored at the client. For example in one embodiment the metadata from the policy server may specify that policies have been deleted from the policy store of the policy server or that policies should be otherwise removed from policy stores such as the policy store at the policy client .

In the example above when the application causes the policy client to send a request for metadata the method may further include providing an indication to the application that resource protection policies at the client have been updated. For example the indication may be sent from the policy client to the application . In response to providing the indication to the application that resource protection policies at the client have been updated embodiments of the method may include receiving a request from the application for metadata about resource protection policies at the client . In response to receiving a request from the application for metadata about resource protection policies at the client the method may include sending the metadata to the application the metadata including data about resource protection policies at the client .

In response to sending the metadata to the application the method may include receiving a request for resource protection policies from the application . In response to receiving a request for resource protection policies from the application the method may include sending resource protection policies to the application.

Referring now to another method is illustrated. The method may be practiced for example in a computing environment where resources are distributed. The method may include acts for providing policy information defining restrictions on resources distributed in the computing environment. The method includes receiving a request from a client for metadata about resource protection policies at a server act . For example the server may receive a request for metadata from the policy client . In response to the request for metadata about resource protection polices at the server the method further includes sending metadata about resource protection polices at the server to the client act . For example the server may send metadata to the client .

Metadata about resource protection policies may be sent to the client based on a number of different factors. For example metadata may be limited based on user identity information provided by the client role information provided by the client group membership information which may be provided by the client by a directory etc. physical location information provided by the client administrator marked policies at the server etc.

Referring now to a method is illustrated. The method may be practiced in a computing environment where resources are distributed. The method includes acts for obtaining policy information defining restrictions on resources distributed in the computing environment. The method includes receiving a request from an application for metadata about resource protection policies at a client act . For example the application may send a request to the policy client for metadata stored at the policy client.

In response to receiving a request from the application for metadata about resource protection policies at the client the method includes sending metadata to the application about resource protection policies at the client act . For example the policy client may send metadata to the application .

In response to sending metadata to the application about resource protection policies at the client the method may include receiving a request for resource protection policies from the application act . For example the policy client may receive the request for resource protection policies.

In response to receiving a request for resource protection policies from the application the method may include sending resource protection policies to the application act . For example the policy client may send one or more resource protection policies to the application .

Embodiments herein may comprise a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware as discussed in greater detail below.

Embodiments may also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

