---

title: Asynchronous download
abstract: The claimed subject matter provides a system and/or method that asynchronously disseminates multimedia content to disparate clients. The disclosed system can include a component that receives multimedia content supplied by a multimedia publisher, encrypts or applies a time sensitive lock to the received multimedia content, disseminates the encrypted or locked multimedia content to the disparate clients, and a time subsequent, generates and distributes to the disparate clients a counterpart to the time sensitive lock necessary to unlock and play the disseminated and encrypted or locked multimedia content on the clients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07933408&OS=07933408&RS=07933408
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07933408
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070615
---
In order to remain competitive in the home entertainment industry manufacturers and service providers are increasing efforts to develop improved entertainment systems. A rapidly evolving type of entertainment system relates to a personal video recorder system. A personal video recorder system includes a large digital data storage device such as a hard disk drive for storing recorded audio and or video programming in a digital format without a videotape . The storage device enables the viewer to efficiently implement a time shifting function so that the viewer can watch the recorded program at a more convenient time. The personal video recorder system receives broadcast programs from a service provider such as in the form of cable television satellite or other source of programming. The personal video recorder system also may employ a video compression system e.g. an MPEG 2 format in combination with an analog to digital converter for converting analog broadcast signals into a suitable digital format. Alternatively and or additionally the personal video recorder system may receive broadcast signals in digital format.

Current digital rights management schemes as applied to personal video recorders and or re broadcast services are deficient in that they typically cannot handle time released distributions of multimedia content. For example current digital rights management schemes cannot distribute multimedia content to a multitude of receptive clients for release playback and or re distribution on some future date. Rather what transpires today is that as soon as multimedia content is distributed from a secure distribution center the content immediately becomes available there currently does not exist a facility and or mechanism that can release the content in a controlled time centric manner.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The claimed subject matter relates to a novel digital rights management scheme that facilitates control of when content can be viewed and enhances distribution of such content. More particularly content is encrypted so that it cannot be viewed until a pre determined time. The content can be distributed and downloaded in advance but can only be viewed after decryption and the encryption methodology is time centric. For example content e.g. a movie or first run sitcom etc. can be downloaded in advance along with a token or key that provides for decrypting the content. The token or key can sync with a remote server and at a pre determined time unlock the content so that it can be viewed. The content cannot be viewed prior to the pre determined time. Accordingly broadcast media movies and the like can be distributed to users a priori thus overcoming constraints associated with bandwidth limitations large content high definition movies and control when the users are able to view such content. The claimed invention facilitates and effectuates efficient downloading storing of content to personal video recorder re broadcast service e.g. during off peak hours while preserving integrity of first time viewing for content providers.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed and claimed subject matter are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be employed and is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject matter as claimed is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As stated supra broadcast service can collect diverse media presentations from a multitude of multimedia producers and thereafter encrypt and or lock the collected and or obtained media presentations with for example a time sensitive lock that can include broadcast service s unique credential information e.g. IP address Media Access Control MAC address domain name and the like and or encryption key. Additionally broadcast service can distribute the encrypted and or locked media content to personal video recorder rebroadcast service and can further on a periodic basis transmit time signals and or key information necessary to unlock encrypted and or locked media presentations that have been persisted on various client machines e.g. personal video recorder rebroadcast service .

Network topology can include any viable communication technology for example wired and or wireless modalities and or technologies can be employed to effectuate the subject matter as claimed. Moreover network topology can include utilization of Personal Area Networks PANs Local Area Networks LANs Campus Area Networks CANs Metropolitan Area Networks MANs Extranets intranets the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs both centralized and distributed and or any combination permutation and or aggregation thereof. Additionally and or alternatively network topology can employ power electricity line communications wherein power distribution wires are employed for both the simultaneous distribution of data as well as transmission of power electricity .

Personal video recorder rebroadcast service like broadcast service can be any type of machine that includes a processor and is capable of effective communication with network topology . Machines that can comprise personal video recorder rebroadcast service can include desktop computers server class computing machines cell phones smart phones laptop computers notebook computers Tablet PCs consumer and or industrial devices and or appliances automotive accessories aviation equipment hand held devices and the like.

Personal video recorder rebroadcast service can be a standalone set top box or a portable recording and or playback device. Additionally and or alternatively personal video recorder rebroadcast service can be a commercial re transmitter e.g. an entity one of whose purposes is to receive media content and subsequently forwarded the received content to other rebroadcast services and or personal video recorders . Additionally personal video recorder rebroadcast service can be implemented entirely in software hardware and or a combination of software and or hardware. Further personal video recorder rebroadcast service can be incorporated within and or associated with other compatible components such as for instance televisions consumer and or industrial devices and or appliances that can include processors e.g. notebook computers desktop computers laptop computers multimedia Internet enabled mobile phones multimedia players refrigerators and the like .

Personal video recorder rebroadcast service can receive from broadcast service via network topology locked and or encrypted multimedia program content. Upon receipt of locked and encrypted multimedia program content personal video recorder rebroadcast service can persist the received content to associated volatile and or non volatile memory that can be electronically erased and or programmed and or non volatile storage that persists digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating platters with magnetic and or optically retentive services and or coatings and or magnetic tape and the like.

Personal video recorder rebroadcast service subsequent to receipt of locked and or encrypted multimedia program content can receive keys necessary to unlock and or decrypt persisted multimedia content. Alternatively and or additionally personal video recorder rebroadcast service can periodically poll broadcast service to elicit an appropriate key and or time signal needed to unlock and or decrypt stored multimedia content. Once personal video recorder rebroadcast service has obtained and or received appropriate key information from broadcast service personal video recorder rebroadcast service can activate unlock appropriate multimedia content and proceed to either playback the multimedia content to associated audio and or display instrumentalities associated with a personal video recorder e.g. a audio visual display and or transmit the unlocked and or activated multimedia content for reception by disparate and diverse receiving devices such as televisions radios Digital Video Recorders DVRs Personal Video Recorders PVRs portable multimedia players cell phones smart phones multimedia Internet enabled mobile phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs laptop computers notebook computers server class machines and the like.

Interface can receive data from a multitude of sources such as for example data associated with multimedia presentations client applications services users clients devices and or entities involved with a particular transaction a portion of a transaction and thereafter convey the received information to encryption and key generation component for further analysis. Additionally interface can receive from encryption and key generation component encrypted and or locked multimedia content encryption and time sensitive keys and or time signals needed to unlock and or decrypt locked and encrypted content for subsequent distribution to receptive clients.

Interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication pathways etc. to integrate the various components included in system into virtually any operating system and or database system and or with one another. Additionally interface can provide various adapters connectors channels communication modalities etc. that provide for interaction with various components that can comprise system and or any other component external and or internal data and the like associated with system .

Encryption and key generation component on receipt of multimedia content can encrypt and or lock the received content with one or more encryption and or time sensitive keys. For instance encryption and key generation component can encrypt and or lock the entirety of the received content e.g. encrypt each and every bit of data included in the multimedia presentation . Alternatively encryption and key generation component can encrypt and or lock selective portions of the multimedia presentation. Illustrative encryption and or locking mechanisms that can be utilized by encryption and key generation component can include public key cryptography e.g. asymmetric cryptography wherein pairs of keys a public key and a private key are generated and or disseminated the private key is kept secret while the public key is widely distributed. Encryption and key generation component can also employ single key one key and or private key encryption e.g. symmetric key encryption wherein trivially related or identical cryptographic keys are generated and used for both decryption and or encryption. It will be appreciated by those cognizant in the art that a combination of asymmetric and symmetric key cryptography can be utilized to effectuate and facilitate the claimed subject matter and accordingly will fall within the ambit and intent of the subject matter as claimed.

Once encryption and key generation component has completed or during partial completion of or concurrently with the encryption and or locking of the received content encryption and key generation component can cause interface to distribute and or disseminate the resultant encrypted and or locked multimedia content to receiving client devices e.g. personal video recorder rebroadcast service . Further encryption and key generation component can also at a time subsequent generate and disseminate key information and or time signal data that can be used by client devices to unlock and or decrypt the distributed and or persisted encrypted and or locked multimedia content.

Key generation component can generate keys necessary to unlock and or decrypt multimedia content that has previously been or is concurrently being persisted on storage media associated with personal video recorder re broadcast server . Additionally key generation component can also contemporaneously generate keys needed to decrypt and or unlock multimedia content that is concurrently being both downloaded to personal video recorder re broadcast server as well as simultaneously being displayed played on audio visual displays associated with or retransmitted by personal video recorder re broadcast server . Additionally and or alternatively key generation component can generate and broadcast a periodic time signal that can be utilized by personal video recorder re broadcast service to unlock multimedia content when for example a time sensitive lock is utilized. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that when time sensitive locks are utilized that key generation component need only disseminate an appropriate time signal since the unlocking of the time sensitive lock can be accomplished by the time signal together with associated broadcast service credentials. In other words to unlock the time sensitive lock for example both a time signal generated by broadcast service as well as pertinent credential information related to broadcast service is necessary to unlock the multimedia content. In this manner time sensitive multimedia releases can be preserved.

It is to be appreciated that store can be for example volatile memory or non volatile memory or can include both volatile and non volatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM electrically programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which can act as external cache memory. By way of illustration rather than limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM . Store of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory. In addition it is to be appreciated that store can be a server a database a hard drive and the like.

The independent components may be used to further fill out or span an information space and the dependent components may be employed in combination to improve quality of common information recognizing that all sensor input data may be subject to error and or noise. In this context data fusion techniques employed by data fusion component may include algorithmic processing of sensor input data to compensate for inherent fragmentation of information because particular phenomena may not be observed directly using a single sensing input modality. Thus data fusion provides a suitable framework to facilitate condensing combining evaluating and or interpreting available sensed or received information in the context of a particular application.

In view of the foregoing it is readily apparent that utilization of the context component to consider and analyze extrinsic information can substantially facilitate determining meaning of sets of inputs.

Users can also interact with regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse roller ball keypad keyboard and or voice activation for example. Typically the mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent to entering the information in order to initiate for example a query. However it is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not so limited. For example nearly highlighting a checkbox can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via a text message. The user can then provide suitable information such as alphanumeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a graphical user interface and or application programming interface API . In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays e.g. black and white and EGA with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

In view of the exemplary systems shown and described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flow charts of . While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter. Additionally it should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed hereinafter and throughout this specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers.

The claimed subject matter can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more components. Generally program modules can include routines programs objects data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined and or distributed as desired in various aspects.

The claimed subject matter can be implemented via object oriented programming techniques. For example each component of the system can be an object in a software routine or a component within an object. Object oriented programming shifts the emphasis of software development away from function decomposition and towards the recognition of units of software called objects which encapsulate both data and functions. Object Oriented Programming OOP objects are software entities comprising data structures and operations on data. Together these elements enable objects to model virtually any real world entity in terms of its characteristics represented by its data elements and its behavior represented by its data manipulation functions. In this way objects can model concrete things like people and computers and they can model abstract concepts like numbers or geometrical concepts.

The benefit of object technology arises out of three basic principles encapsulation polymorphism and inheritance. Objects hide or encapsulate the internal structure of their data and the algorithms by which their functions work. Instead of exposing these implementation details objects present interfaces that represent their abstractions cleanly with no extraneous information. Polymorphism takes encapsulation one step further the idea being many shapes one interface. A software component can make a request of another component without knowing exactly what that component is. The component that receives the request interprets it and figures out according to its variables and data how to execute the request. The third principle is inheritance which allows developers to reuse pre existing design and code. This capability allows developers to avoid creating software from scratch. Rather through inheritance developers derive subclasses that inherit behaviors that the developer then customizes to meet particular needs.

In particular an object includes and is characterized by a set of data e.g. attributes and a set of operations e.g. methods that can operate on the data. Generally an object s data is ideally changed only through the operation of the object s methods. Methods in an object are invoked by passing a message to the object e.g. message passing . The message specifies a method name and an argument list. When the object receives the message code associated with the named method is executed with the formal parameters of the method bound to the corresponding values in the argument list. Methods and message passing in OOP are analogous to procedures and procedure calls in procedure oriented software environments.

However while procedures operate to modify and return passed parameters methods operate to modify the internal state of the associated objects by modifying the data contained therein . The combination of data and methods in objects is called encapsulation. Encapsulation provides for the state of an object to only be changed by well defined methods associated with the object. When the behavior of an object is confined to such well defined locations and interfaces changes e.g. code modifications in the object will have minimal impact on the other objects and elements in the system.

Each object is an instance of some class. A class includes a set of data attributes plus a set of allowable operations e.g. methods on the data attributes. As mentioned above OOP supports inheritance a class called a subclass may be derived from another class called a base class parent class etc. where the subclass inherits the data attributes and methods of the base class. The subclass may specialize the base class by adding code which overrides the data and or methods of the base class or which adds new data attributes and methods. Thus inheritance represents a mechanism by which abstractions are made increasingly concrete as subclasses are created for greater levels of specialization.

As used in this application the terms component and system are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Artificial intelligence based systems e.g. explicitly and or implicitly trained classifiers can be employed in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects of the claimed subject matter as described hereinafter. As used herein the term inference infer or variations in form thereof refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines . . . can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the claimed subject matter.

Furthermore all or portions of the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a system method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Some portions of the detailed description have been presented in terms of algorithms and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and or representations are the means employed by those cognizant in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others equally skilled. An algorithm is here generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of acts leading to a desired result. The acts are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Typically though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated.

It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the disclosed subject matter discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining and or displaying and the like refer to the action and processes of computer systems and or similar consumer and or industrial electronic devices and or machines that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical electrical and or electronic quantities within the computer s and or machine s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the machine and or computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission and or display devices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed system. In order to provide additional context for various aspects thereof and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the claimed subject matter can be implemented. While the description above is in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject matter as claimed also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the claimed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital video disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

With reference again to the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the claimed subject matter.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the disclosed and claimed subject matter.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adaptor may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet .

Wi Fi networks can operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands. IEEE 802.11 applies to generally to wireless LANs and provides 1 or 2 Mbps transmission in the 2.4 GHz band using either frequency hopping spread spectrum FHSS or direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS . IEEE 802.11a is an extension to IEEE 802.11 that applies to wireless LANs and provides up to 54 Mbps in the 5 GHz band. IEEE 802.11a uses an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM encoding scheme rather than FHSS or DSSS. IEEE 802.11b also referred to as 802.11 High Rate DSSS or Wi Fi is an extension to 802.11 that applies to wireless LANs and provides 11 Mbps transmission with a fallback to 5.5 2 and 1 Mbps in the 2.4 GHz band. IEEE 802.11g applies to wireless LANs and provides 20 Mbps in the 2.4 GHz band. Products can contain more than one band e.g. dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computing environment for processing the disclosed architecture in accordance with another aspect. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the claimed subject matter for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the claimed subject matter for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed and claimed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

