---

title: Techniques to automatically focus a digital camera
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to techniques to automatically focus a digital camera. In one or more embodiments, a mobile electronics device may comprise a digital camera having a lens component and lens position component. A display may be coupled to the digital camera to reproduce an image with a first focal point. The digital camera may also include a focal point selection module coupled to the display to select a second focal point for the image and a focus control module coupled to the focal point selection module and the lens position component to provide focus control signals to the lens position component to focus the lens component on the second focal point. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08497928&OS=08497928&RS=08497928
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 08497928
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070731
---
A digital camera is an electronic device used to capture and store images electronically in a digital format instead of using photographic film like conventional cameras or recording images in an analog format to magnetic tape like many video cameras. Modern compact digital cameras are typically multifunctional with some devices capable of recording sound and or video as well as still images.

Many digital cameras provide an autofocus feature. Autofocus is a feature that allows a user of a digital camera to obtain the correct focus on a subject rather than requiring the operator to adjust focus manually. Typically a user may assist the camera by determining which area of the photograph to focus on by performing a button half press or other convoluted user interaction to achieve the desired focus. Providing a technique to allow users to more easily determine the area of the photograph they wish to focus on may be desirable. Accordingly there may be a need for improved techniques to automatically focus a digital camera.

Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques to automatically focus a digital camera. Some embodiments are particularly directed to automatically focusing a digital camera using a display device. The display device may be integrated with or separate from the digital camera. In one embodiment for example a mobile electronics device may comprise a digital camera having a lens component and lens position component. A display may be coupled to the digital camera to reproduce an image with a first focal point. The digital camera may also include a focal point selection module coupled to the display to select a second focal point for the image. The digital camera may also include a focus control module coupled to the focal point selection module and the lens position component to provide focus control signals to the lens position component to focus the lens component on the second focal point. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The mobile electronic device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile electronic device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile electronic device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile electronic device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electromagnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile electronic device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile electronic device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile electronic device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile electronic device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile electronic device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The host processor may also be coupled to various components such as a keypad a display an input output I O interface various audio visual A V devices a power supply and so forth. In some cases the host processor may further implement a digital interface to communicate digital signals between the host processor and the various coupled components. Examples of such digital signals may include without limitation digital clock signals such as from an integrated circuit IC clock source. The digital clock signal is typically a signal used to coordinate the actions of two or more circuits. The clock signal oscillates between a high and low state normally with a fifty percent duty cycle and is usually a square waveform. Circuits using the clock signal for synchronization may become active at either the rising edge or falling edge or both of the oscillating clock signal. Consequently the host processor typically delivers a clock signal to the various components coupled to the host processor in part to synchronize and control the coupled components.

The mobile electronic device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. In some cases the keypad may comprise a thumbboard arranged for operation using the thumbs of a user. The mobile electronic device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile electronic device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile electronic device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile electronic device may comprise an I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile electronic device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile electronic device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile electronic device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile electronic device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile electronic device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile electronic device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile electronic device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more radio transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services. It may be appreciated that the term transceiver as used herein may describe a transmitter a receiver or both a transmitter and receiver.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile electronic device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile electronic device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile electronic device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile electronic device .

System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile electronic device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile electronic device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS Mac OS X and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile electronic device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

As show in the mobile electronic device may comprise or implement a focus management module . Focus management module may be arranged to provide automatic focus control to a user. For example focus management module may be responsible for providing control signals to control one or more of A V devices of mobile electronic device . Although the focus management module may be shown as being implemented on the same integrated circuit as the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire focus management module may be included separate from the host processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown digital camera system may comprise or implement focus management module pointing component display digital camera and bus . The bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the digital camera to communicate with focus management module . Although focus management module may be shown as being separate from digital camera for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire focus management module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the digital camera . Alternatively some portion or the entire focus management module may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of digital camera .

Focus management module may comprise or implement focal point selection module focus control module and white balance control module . Digital camera may comprise or implement controller lens component lens position component microphone position component directional microphone memory flash control module and flash component . It can be appreciated that a limited number of elements are shown for purposes of illustration and not limitation.

Display of digital camera system may be representative of for example display of mobile electronic device . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of digital camera system . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus or other pointing device. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Digital camera system may be representative of for example one of A V devices of mobile electronics device . In one embodiment digital camera system may be implemented as an electronic device used to capture and store images electronically in a digital format. Additionally in some embodiments digital camera system may be capable of recording sound and or video in addition to still images. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Digital camera of digital camera system may comprise controller . Controller may provide control signals to components of digital camera including lens position component microphone position component and flash control module to provide functionality for digital camera system . In some embodiments controller may also provide control signals to focus management module via bus . In one embodiment controller may be implemented as for example host processor of mobile electronics device . Alternatively controller may be implemented as a separate processor from host processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Digital camera may further comprise memory . Memory may be implemented as for example memory of mobile electronics device . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from controller for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as controller . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of controller .

Focus management module of digital camera system may be representative of for example focus management module of mobile electronics device . Focus management module may be arranged to provide automatic focus control to a user by for example providing control signals to control one or more of lens position component microphone position component and flash control module for example. In some embodiments the focus management module may be implemented on the same integrated circuit as controller . In various embodiments some portion or the entire focus management module may be included separate from controller . In various embodiments focus management module may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. Focus management module may for example be implemented as computer executable instructions stored on memory to be executed by controller . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Digital camera may comprise a lens component and a lens position component . Lens component may consist of a photographic or optical lens or assembly of lenses made of a transparent material such as glass plastic acrylic or Plexiglass for example. In one embodiment the one or more lens elements of lens component may reproduce an image of an object and allow for zooming in or out on the object by mechanically changing the focal length of the lens elements. In various embodiments digital zoom may be employed in digital camera system to zoom in or out on an image. In some embodiments the one or more lens elements of lens component may be used to focus on different portions of the image by varying the focal length of the lens elements. The desired focus can be obtained with an autofocus feature of digital camera system or by manually focusing on the desired portion of the image for example.

Lens position component may be configured to receive control signals from controller and focus control module and use this control information to adjust the lens component . In various embodiments the lens position component may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context. For example lens position component may receive control information from controller indicating that a user wishes to focus on a particular portion of an object. Lens position component may use this control information to configure the lens elements of lens component into the proper configuration to deliver the desired focus.

In one embodiment display of digital camera system may be coupled to digital camera and may be arranged to capture and reproduce an image with a first focal point. The image may be viewed through lens component and reproduced on display . The image on display may comprise a substantially real time preview of the image to allow for framing and previewing before capturing a photograph. In some embodiments the focal point refers to the intended center of interest of a photograph and is typically the point where the image will be in the clearest focus.

Focal point selection module may be coupled to the display and may allow for the selection of a second focal point for the image. The second focal point may be selected for example by an operator using the display to indicate that a second focal point is desired. In some embodiments for example display may comprise a touchscreen display and may be configured to send coordinates for the second focal point to the focal point selection module . These coordinates which may in one example comprise X Y coordinates may correspond to pressure applied to an area of the display . Pressure may be applied to the display by any suitable input device including a stylus or a finger for example and this pressure may be digitized to represent the coordinates. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Focus control module may be coupled to the focal point selection module and the lens position component to provide focus control signals to the lens position component to focus the lens component on the second focal point. In various embodiments the focus control signals may represent a focal length for the lens component . In some embodiments focus control module may determine the focal length for lens component based on the coordinates for the second focal point determined by focal point selection module . Lens position component may use the control signals from focus control module to adjust the lens elements of lens component to achieve the desired focus on the second focal point.

The digital camera system may further comprise a pointing component coupled to the display and the focal point selection module . The pointing component may be configured to control a pointer on the display in response to user or operator commands. The pointing component may send coordinates for the second focal point to the focal point selection module . The coordinates may correspond to a position for the pointer on the display . In various embodiments the pointer may comprise any overlay image on display that is capable of indicated the currently selected area or focal point. For example the pointer may include an arrow box circle oval or any other suitable image. The overlay image may have varying degrees of translucency as desired for a given implementation.

In some embodiments the digital camera system may comprise a directional microphone and a microphone position component coupled to the focus control module . In various embodiments the focus control module may provide focus control signals to the microphone position component to focus the directional microphone on the second focal point. For example focus control module may provide coordinates to microphone position component . Microphone position component may use the coordinates to focus directional microphone on the sound emanating from the focal point defined by the coordinates.

Directional microphone may consist of one or more microphones whose response varies with the direction of sound incidence. In one embodiment directional microphone may be implemented as a digital directional microphone capable of creating null points at different frequencies to cancel various sounds around a desired focal point. In various embodiments the microphone position component may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In some embodiments the digital camera system may comprise a white balance control module coupled to the focal point selection module . The white balance control module may be configured to modify a white balance setting value for the image based on the second focal point. In various embodiments white balance control module may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. White balance control may refer to the adjustment of the relative amounts of red green and blue primary colors in an image such that neutral colors are reproduced correctly. Changing the white balance may change the overall mixture of colors in an image and can be used for generalized color correction.

Flash component and flash control module of digital camera system may be coupled to the focal point selection module and or controller . The flash control module may be configured to select a flash level value representing flash intensity for the flash component based on the second focal point. In various embodiments the flash control module may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. Flash component may consist of a device or group of devices that produce an instantaneous flash of light typically around 1 3000 of a second at a color temperature of about 5500K to help illuminate a scene. Flash component may be used for example to aid in capturing images of quickly moving objects to create a different temperature light than the ambient light and to illuminate scenes that do not have enough available light to adequately expose the image.

Operations for the mobile electronic device may be further described with reference to one or more logic flows. It may be appreciated that the representative logic flows do not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented or in any particular order unless otherwise indicated. Moreover various activities described with respect to the logic flows can be executed in serial or parallel fashion. The logic flows may be implemented using any desired hardware elements software elements or combination of both.

As shown in the logic flow may comprise displaying an image with a first focal point from a digital camera at block . The image may be displayed with a touchscreen display such as for example display of mobile electronics device .

The logic flow may further comprise selecting a second focal point for the image at block . The selection of the second focal point for the image may be performed using a touchscreen display. The touchscreen display may be for example display of mobile electronic device .

At block logic flow may comprise focusing the digital camera on the second focal point. Focusing the digital camera on the second focal point may further comprise generating a set of coordinates for the second focal point and focusing a lens for the digital camera on the second focal point.

In various embodiments a directional microphone may be focused on the second focal point and or a flash level value representing flash intensity for a flash component may be selected based on the second focal point.

In some embodiments the image may be captured using a touchscreen display. Capturing the image using a touchscreen display may comprise a user applying pressure to the touchscreen display to indicate that the image on the display is ready to be committed to memory. Capturing the image for example may require a double tap on the touchscreen display or pressure applied to the touchscreen display in the area of the selected second focal point.

The digital camera may be capable of zooming in or out on the image displayed on the touchscreen display in various embodiments. For example a user may desire to zoom in on an object to focus a photograph on a specific element of the object. In some embodiments the user may accomplish this goal by applying pressure to the touchscreen display in the area where the user wishes to zoom similar to the way in which a second focal point is selected. Alternatively a user may slide a pointer across the touchscreen display to zoom in or out on the object. User interface or graphic user interface GUI elements may be implemented and shown by the display to provide zoom controls and information.

In various embodiments a user may edit or crop the image on the touchscreen display by manipulating the image using the touchscreen display. For example a user who wishes to crop an image may use the touchscreen display to indicate the desired size of the cropped image by sliding the corners of the image to the desired position. As with zoom controls a GUI may be implemented for the cropping operations.

A mobile electronic device may comprise a digital camera having a lens component and lens position component and a directional microphone and a microphone position component . A display may be coupled to the digital camera to reproduce an image from the digital camera with a first focal point. A focal point selection module may be coupled to the display to select a second and a third focal point for the image. A focus control module may be coupled to the focal point selection module and the lens position component and microphone position component to provide focus control signals to the lens position component and the microphone position component . The focus control signals may be used to focus the lens component on the second focal point and the directional microphone on the third focal point for example.

In one embodiment the second focal point may comprise visual focal point . Visual focal point may comprise for example an object that a user desires to focus on when capturing a digital image. In one embodiment the third focal point may comprise audio focal point . Audio focal point may comprise a sound or series of sounds such as the voice of an individual that a user desires to focus on when capturing a digital video for example. In various embodiments the visual focal point and the audio focal point may be located remotely from each other.

In one embodiment directional microphone may be configured to track audio focal point as the position of audio focal point changes. For example if the selected audio focal point comprises the voice of an individual located in a first position the individual may move to a second remote position and the directional microphone may be configured to follow the voice of the individual to the second position without requiring the user to physically change the position of the digital camera. Tracking an audio focal point may be implemented by any suitable means known in the art such as sound source localization for example.

The embodiment described in may be applicable if a user desires to record a digital video with different audio and video focal points. For example a user may desire to record a digital video of a waterfall while another individual standing nearby describes the waterfall. In this example the user may wish to select the waterfall as the visual focal point and the individual describing the scene as the audio focal point . In this embodiment the quality of the recorded digital video may be increased as a result of increased options presented to the user.

A user of a mobile electronic device may desire to capture a digital photograph of a friend standing near a waterfall with a digital camera contained in a mobile electronic device. To view the desired image the user points the lens of the camera of the mobile electronic device in the direction of the friend and an image is displayed on the touchscreen display of the mobile electronic device. The intended focal point of the image is the face of the friend. However the digital camera may originally set the default focal point as the waterfall for example.

In the above described embodiments the user need only tap the portion of the touchscreen display of the mobile electronic device to set the focal point on a different desired location. In the given example the user may tap the touchscreen display in the area of the face of their friend to change the focal point away from the waterfall. In various embodiments the user may also capture the image by tapping the touchscreen a second time or by performing a double tap on the touchscreen. The image may also be captured using the various buttons on the mobile electronic device including a five way center button press for example.

If for example the user in the same situation desired to record a digital video of their friend and the waterfall using the mobile electronic device the touchscreen display could be used to continually change the focal point of the video in a manner similar to that described above. Additionally the touchscreen display could be utilized to control a directional microphone of the mobile electronic device. For example if the intended video target is the waterfall that is several yards away from the user and a group of individuals carrying on a conversation are standing near the user the user could use the touchscreen display to indicate that the sound of the waterfall and not the conversation of the members of the nearby group are the intended audio target. As described above a user may also wish to select different audio and visual focal points. The above described embodiments may provide a user with enhanced ease of operation and may help to ensure better picture quality and a better photographic experience.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments.

