---

title: Video advertiser-broker subsidizing VoIP calls
abstract: The advertiser-broker provides the clearing-house services between many advertisers and many VoIP operators, subsidizing wholly or partially phone calls of users of VoIP operators by showing them streaming video advertisements of advertisers who pay for the calls. With this new business, phone calls get monetized through advertisers while users pay nothing for phone calls, and VoIP operators do not need to incorporate advertisers to their business.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08234167&OS=08234167&RS=08234167
owner: Argela Yazilim ve Bilisim Teknolojileri San. ve Tic. A.S.
number: 08234167
owner_city: 
owner_country: TR
publication_date: 20070309
---
The present invention relates generally to the public Internet and more particularly to a method and business model for subsidizing Voice over IP calls by using interactive video advertisements through a third party advertiser broker.

Advertising has been a popular marketing tool for corporations. While many forms of advertising and different ad channels exist video advertising on television has been far more the popular and effective method compared to post mail email or magazine advertising as the audience is captive and attentive. Most recently with the advent of Broadband Internet access and web and streaming technologies on line web based video advertising started getting significant momentum. Particularly in banner and in stream type of video and image based advertising are used on web pages while users search for content or purchase goods on the Internet. Although video advertisement is available on the web it is not as effective as television advertisement since the audience is not captive i.e. the viewer may simply skip watching the video by closing the video window and proceeding with the task in hand .

In parallel with these advents the telecommunications services started to move from traditional switch based telephony networks to public Internet where black phones are replaced by soft phones capable of sending and receiving real time multimedia streams instead of just voice during a call. Operators like Skype and Vonage have gained significant customer base by offering Voice over IP VoIP services at low or no cost.

Because of intense competition there is a constant pressure to lower the cost of voice calls. As a consequence the operators suffer from significant ARPU drops as they try to compete fiercely on price. The overwhelming growth in Skype s business has been attributed among others to free calling phenomena. The free calling model can only survive if another Party subsidizes for the calls.

Advertising through telecommunication channels is a virgin area. It offers to companies a direct marketing possibility. Different than the common traditional advertisement channels newspapers TV radio billboards etc telecommunication channels provide the added benefits of direct marketing advantage as the end user can be classified in terms of age gender level of income location etc.

Taking advantage of these two evolutions sponsoring call through advertisement will definitely open a new and controlled channel for advertisements. With the edging technologies it is now also possible to push video based commercials to the end users just as in TV advertisements.

Systems and methods consistent with the present invention address the need stated above by providing a mechanism through which the charges for VoIP telephone calls are reduced or completely eliminated through a third party so called advertiser broker who provides the service of subsidized calling by doing business with a plurality of sponsors users and VoIP operators.

The new business method consistent with the present invention includes an advertiser broker a new type of online business on public Internet who registers VoIP users of one or more VoIP operators so that the users can initiate a VoIP call from a special soft phone provided by the advertiser broker or by the operator such that a multimedia audio video image and text advertisement is displayed before the call during ring back tone during the call or after the call. In this model advertiser broker acts as a clearing house between all subscribing sponsors and VoIP operators.

Insertion of ad or a message during a traditional phone call is well known and documented in prior art. For example Chavez et al. describes in U.S. Pat. No. 6 603 844 a system in which an advertisement in the form of an audio message which is paid for by a third party is inserted during ring back tone in a telecommunication network. Insertion of advertisements into a VoIP stream is also prior art. For example Olshansky describes in U.S. Pat. No. 6 492 437 a system where a VoIP service provider plays an advertisement during a call to generate a bill based on a subsidized billing rate. However there is no prior art on a business method such as advertiser broker in which the ad insertion is done by a third party not the telecommunications operator servicing simultaneously many operators and many sponsors.

The advertisement selected for the user is determined through the profile of user location age sex education profession interest etc. in advertiser broker user database. The sponsor subsidize for all or some calls e.g. local calls only of the VoIP user.

While this invention is illustrated and described in a preferred embodiment the invention may be produced in many different configurations. There is depicted in the drawings and will herein be described in detail a preferred embodiment of the invention with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the invention and the associated functional specifications for its construction and is not intended to limit the invention to the embodiment illustrated. Those skilled in the art will envision many other possible variations within the scope of the present invention.

Systems and methods consistent with the present invention provides a new business model through which many VoIP operators simultaneously may enjoy offering telephone service that is completely or partially subsidized by video advertisers sharing the same advertiser broker infrastructure. The VoIP operator provides telecommunications and Internet infrastructure to make multimedia calls. Usually looking for advertisers and best advertisements for its users is outside the scope of usual business of an operator.

As illustrated in advertiser broker connects to the network infrastructure of multiple VoIP operators and and multiple sponsors and . The connectivity between VoIP operator and advertiser broker is an over the Internet connection using TCP IP protocol or it s variants. Connection may be running the Session Initiation Protocol SIP for call signaling Real Time Protocol RTP for transport of call media. Alternatively this connection may be running web services over HTTP or other types of IP protocols to enable call signaling and media transport. Connection may optionally support protocols such as RADIUS or DIAMETER so that the advertiser broker can authenticate the user and verify the validity of user s subscription with the VoIP operator at the onset of a subsidized call by that user. All these protocols are well known in prior art. The connection between the sponsor and advertiser broker may be HTTP protocol File Transfer Protocol FTP database access protocol such as Light Directory Access Protocol LDAP or SQL an Application Programming Interface API or a combination of these protocols and API or other Internet protocols. Users and are subscribers of VoIP Operators and respectively. User is a telephone user attached to the traditional telecommunication network which in turn connects to one or more VoIP operators through connection which performs appropriate translations from IP protocols to traditional signaling and trunking protocols. User and register with advertiser broker as a user of VoIP operators and respectively signing up for free sponsored subsidized service advertiser broker offers. Advertiser broker provides interactions between 1 user and sponsor 2 sponsor and VoIP operator and 3 user and VoIP operator and clearing house functions for fund transfer from sponsor to VoIP operator.

Provisioning Subsystem This subsystem has functions to register and provision operators users and sponsors. User registration function enables users to register with the service on line entering user specific data such as name address profile telephone number s VOIP operator s preferences and service subscription. All user specific information is then stored in user database .

Sponsor Provisioning function is another independent function which enables a sponsor to perform self provisioning. The sponsor provisioning steps include entering sponsor s name address telephone number ad catalogue videos audios and banners and ad s target audience profile sponsor s access privileges etc. Additionally sponsor includes the total funds committed to the system over a specific time period for sponsorship and the price he she is willing to pay for each display of a particular ad. There may be other sponsor related functions that are provisioned into the system. Some of the steps during provisioning may also require human intervention e.g. a call from a call center or a manual sales contracting step . Once a sponsor is provisioned the sponsor related information is entered into sponsor database while media of the sponsors ads and ad specific other information are stored in Advertisement Catalogue Database . From there on the sponsor will have direct access to its content on advertiser broker via web portal where view edit add delete of media or other type of modifications on media or updates to sponsor related information can be done on line.

Operator Provision Function is another independent function which enables a VoIP operator to perform self provisioning. The provisioning steps include entering operator s name address telephone number telephone number blocks and user access privileges etc. which are stored in VoIP Operator database . The operator transport layer connection may require a simple configuration step at TCP IP layer such as specifying the VoIP operator s gateway proxy server s IP address to call control function or may require some integration at transport layer .

Ads and Settlements Subsystem This is one of the vital components of advertiser broker where all ads are managed and clearing house functions are performed. Ad selection logic provides the logic of dipping into the advertisement catalogue and user database to extract user profile to decide what ad to play when the user calls. This determination can be performed based on other input such as historic data of which ads are played to date information about sponsor operator and user preferences and user response to particular types of ads. Ad selection logic works in conjunction with sponsoring service function which triggers the ad selection before or during the call. Ad rating function enables users to provide reviews and ratings on ads they watched. These ratings get inserted to advertisement catalogue and provided as feedback to sponsors.

Charging and settlement function keeps track of all advertisement play records or usage records with all related data in DB user id telephone number operator time of call sponsor ad identifier sponsoring cost etc. so that information can be sorted compiled and used to generate settlement information that goes to the VoIP operator in the form of revenues and to Sponsors in the form of costs. Such settlements can be performed online using standard eCommerce practices or using paper bills and receipts. Alternatively accounting protocols such as RADIUS or DIAMETER may be used the transmit credit data to VoIP operators. The sponsors can also top up their accounts on line using Charging and Settlement function on web portal .

An exemplary illustration of web portal s user interface is shown in where skilled in art can see various functions provided for users sponsors and operators. The username password access provides functions defined for that particular type of audience. The ads and the information on each ad are available to public consumption. As a side benefits of showing the ads on web portal to public is other on line advertisers may elect to use them through other on line channels.

Service Logic Subsystem Service Logic Subsystem governs how advertisements are fed to the user over the public Internet. Media Server is a type of streaming server known in prior art to send stored video to streaming clients such a Microsoft and Real network media players for viewing. It can be controlled through protocols such as SIP and Media Gateway Control Protocol MGCP defined by standard bodies. When a user starts a call sponsoring service logic first verifies the validity of subscription of user with its VoIP operator over Connection using an authorization and authentication protocol VoIP operator supports. If the user is a valid user it then interacts with ad selection logic to determine which video to play to user and sends a control signal to Media Server to feed a particular video which in turn retrieves the video from database and sends to user s client the video. Media server also supports video control functions from client such as fast forward stop and resume.

Sponsor Service Function is triggered when a user initiates a call and completes when the advertisement plays out or the called Party picks up the phone depending on how the service is designed. When advertisement is completed sponsoring service logic triggers charging and settlement function for generation of a record in the usage database . In parallel it also triggers the call control function to perform regular call signaling towards the VoIP operator for call completion. While defines a business model where the call control function resides with the advertiser broker . However there may be other variant models defined in and . Note that when the advertiser broker keeps the call control function in it s network VoIP operator becomes merely a transport medium to carry the call. The signaling is handled entirely with advertiser broker from call start to call stop.

The advertiser broker of model shown in provides provisioning subsystem and ads and settlements subsystem the same way as detailed above. The media serving function is provided entirely by VoIP operator . In this model the user originates a call using the VoIP operator s soft client. The VoIP operator checks the advertiser broker s user database to determine if the user has a subscription to a free or subsidized call service. If the answer is affirmative Sponsoring Service Logic residing at VoIP operator s systems interact with Ad Selection Logic of advertiser broker to determine which video to play to user and sends a control signal to Media Server to feed a particular video which in turn retrieves the video from database and sends to user s client the video. When advertisement is completed sponsoring service logic in the operator s network triggers charging and settlement function in advertiser broker for generation of a record in the usage database . In parallel it also triggers the call control function to perform regular call signaling towards the VoIP operator for call completion. The key advantage of this configuration is that VoIP operator can insert an ad not only at the beginning of the call but during or even after the call since it handles call control and call signaling. In this model the advertiser broker is not responsible for playing the video only to provide the video.

The model of works only when an ad is played at the beginning of the call during or in place of ring back tone or prior to ring back tone when the call signaling and call control has not commenced. Once the sponsored service function verifies the that the user is a valid user of VoIP operator and subsequently plays the ad it then hands over the call to Call Control of VoIP operator it has no longer any control of the call.

Call signaling and call control are well known in prior art. For example SIP protocol IETF RFC 3261 provides call signaling messages such as REGISTER INVITE 180 RINGING 200 OK BYE etc. Call control entails the state transition governed by a group of control decisions about the call during signaling. For example call control is responsible for checking if the user properly registered after receiving a REGISTER message from a SIP client. Similarly call control is responsible to send a dial tone or a busy signal during a RINGING or terminate physical connections after a BYE.

In a slightly modified version of the flow is presented. In this scenario the ad is played during the call by the VoIP operator and not by advertiser broker. User opens up her multimedia capable client provided by VoIP operator and initiates a call to user s home phone number in step using the client. VoIP operator checks to determine if user is a registered user of advertiser broker eligible for a subsidized call in step . If the answer is no it continues with the normal call flow in step . Otherwise VoIP operator requests the advertiser broker to retrieve the user profile from the user database and run the ad selection logic to determine which ad of a sponsor to play at step . The ad starts on the multimedia client at step e during the call during ring back during the call or end of call . The ad keeps playing until it is completed. At step advertiser broker generates an ad usage record and inserts into its database.

Systems and methods consistent with the present invention provide a new method by which consumers may make completely free telephone calls though a third party advertiser broker who simultaneously services a plurality of sponsors operators and users providing a new revolutionary model to monetize calls so that while advertisers find a new venue to get their message across users get free calls.

The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the present invention provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention. For example while a subsidized telephone system and method are described above it will be appreciated that the system and method of the present invention would apply equally well to other forms of communications and different implementations of the business methods.

