---

title: Monitoring physical locations using rules and events processing
abstract: A monitoring system is provided. The monitoring system comprises a first storage queue containing rules ready for processing, an event storage containing events, and a plurality of first processor threads configured to execute any one of the rules contained in the first storage queue based on the contents of the event storage. The system also comprises a rules processor configured to receive a plurality of events from a plurality of monitored locations, to add the event to the event storage, to remove a first rule from the first storage queue, to provide the first rule to one of the first processor threads for executing, to receive a first result from the one of the first processor threads, and to send a first notification based on the first result.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07925606&OS=07925606&RS=07925606
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 07925606
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070918
---
Improvements in healthcare diets safety and other considerations are permitting people to live longer. Elderly people often prefer to retain their autonomy and their freedom and continue to live in their own homes as long as possible rather than moving for example to a nursing home. Societies everywhere are becoming increasingly mobile and dispersed. Children who formerly settled close to their birthplace now may settle several hundreds of miles away from their birthplace far from their parent s residence. Additionally both men and women often work outside the home. Children may feel nervous about their elderly parent continuing to live in their own homes rather than in a nursing home being concerned that if a medical crisis strikes their elderly parent it may be a long time before the crisis becomes known.

In an embodiment a monitoring system is provided. The monitoring system comprises a first storage queue containing rules ready for processing an event storage containing events and a plurality of first processor threads configured to execute any one of the rules contained in the first storage queue based on the contents of the event storage. The system also comprises a rules processor configured to receive a plurality of events from a plurality of monitored locations to add the event to the event storage to remove a first rule from the first storage queue to provide the first rule to one of the first processor threads for executing to receive a first result from the one of the first processor threads and to send a first notification based on the first result.

In another embodiment a method of monitoring locations is provided. The method comprises adding a plurality of static rules to a static rules queue each static rule associated with one of the locations adding a plurality of dynamic rules to a dynamic rules queue each dynamic rule associated with one of the locations and adding a plurality of events to an event store at least some of the events associated with the locations. The method also comprises removing a first static rule from the static rules queue for processing returning the first static rule to the static rules queue for later processing matching a first event in the event store with the first static rule the matching based at least in part on the location associated with the first event and with the first static rule and processing the first static rule based on the first event. The method also comprises removing a first dynamic rule from the dynamic rules queue for processing returning the first dynamic rule to the dynamic rules queue for later processing matching a second event in the event store with the first dynamic rule the matching based at least in part on the location associated with the second event and with the first dynamic rule and processing the first dynamic rule based on the second event. The static rules are defined with reference to a start time and an end time and the dynamic rules are defined with reference to an elapsed time since an associated event.

In still another embodiment a method for providing elder care is disclosed. The method comprises detecting a plurality of motions at an elder care location determining if the detection of motions occurs during an expected time interval based on a first plurality of rules data and sending a first notification that expected motions occurred based on the first plurality of rules data.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although an illustrative implementation of one or more embodiments are provided below the disclosed systems and or methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below including the exemplary designs and implementations illustrated and described herein but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The disclosure describes a scaleable system that concurrently monitors events at a large number of buildings and or dwellings and at multiple locations within any one of the buildings and or dwellings. The monitoring system generates positive messages for expected events at the monitored locations and negative messages for unexpected events at the monitored locations or the lack of events at the monitored locations at expected times. These events for example may include motion in a bedroom motion in a hallway opening a door of a refrigerator opening a door of a house and other events. The system sends the positive and negative messages to for example subscribers of the monitoring system who may be children of elderly people living on their own or a small business owner.

Elderly people may experience a health crisis during the night for example a stroke which prevents them from rising and moving about their residence in the morning. Additionally elderly people may fall in their bathroom and be unable to get up. The monitoring system provides a flexible event scenario description capability for describing the rules for sending positive messages and the rules for sending negative messages enabling customized monitoring rules for a large number of monitoring service subscribers. In other embodiments however the events monitoring system monitors other kinds of locations for example business facilities. The rules include static rules and dynamic rules. Static rules may be launched or triggered at pre defined times associated with expected actions for example an expected time for an elderly person to rise from bed between 7 AM and 8 AM. Dynamic rules may be launched or triggered by pre defined actions instead of times and subsequent events may be linked to the dynamic trigger based on timing referenced to the initial triggering action.

The architecture of the monitoring system readily supports scaling to a number of service subscribers for example thousands or millions of subscribers by storing the rule definition and rule state information of the many active rules on queues and instantiating the processing instructions associated with applying the rules for only a subset of the active rules at any time. Alternatively this architecture supports monitoring a large number of different rules or rule chains within a single facility or a small number of facilities for example a manufacturing plant. This processing architecture traverses the queue of active rules as rule processing threads become available the processing thread instantiates the rule based on the rule definition and rule state information removed from the queue of active rules checks an event storage including sensor messages related to the monitored location and either completes the rule processing or returns the rule to the end of the queue for additional processing later. This architecture is projected to scale better to millions of subscribers than instantiating every rule in a separate thread for example millions of threads and processing them until completion.

Turning now to an embodiment of an events monitoring system is shown. The events monitoring system comprises a monitored location an events monitoring server and a notification receiver . While one monitored location and one notification receiver are depicted it is to be understood that it is contemplated that the events monitoring system may comprise a large number for example several thousands or millions of monitored locations and notification receivers . The monitored location the events monitoring server and the notification receiver communicate with one another through a network . In some embodiments the different monitored locations may be associated with different residences or buildings while in other embodiments the different monitored locations may be distributed within a single large building for example a manufacturing facility or an office building.

In an embodiment the monitored location may be the private residence of an elderly person. The monitored location includes a sensor monitor that receives events from several sensors for example motion sensors. The events may be a transition of a sensor detecting motion or the transition of a sensor detecting the opening or a door or a window for example the opening of a refrigerator door. In an embodiment a sensor may be said to be TRUE if the sensor has generated an event. The sensor monitor sends these events to the events monitoring server via the network for example using an email service where the subject line of the email message identifies an account number of an event monitoring system subscriber. The sensors are placed appropriately throughout the monitored location to determine that the resident for example an elderly person has risen in the morning and is generally moving about the monitored location in an expected manner for example entering the living room traversing a room and entering a kitchen opening a refrigerator door.

In some circumstances multiple sensors may be placed in a single large room or at opposite ends of a long hallway. Yet other dispositions and arrangements of sensors may be provided in some embodiments. The sensors may be motion sensors vibration sensors image sensors or other types of sensors. One or more of the sensors may detect a chip or radio frequency identification tag carried by or embedded in the monitored entity or elderly person. The sensors may communicate with the sensor monitor through wired or wireless communication links.

In an embodiment multiple sensor monitors may be distributed throughout a building for example within an manufacturing building or within an office building with each sensor monitor in communication with a modest number of sensors . Alternatively one or a small number of sensor monitors may be distributed within a building with each sensor monitor in communication with a large number of sensors . It will be understood that the numbers of sensor monitors and the numbers of sensors linked to the sensor monitors within a building is a design choice that depends upon individual installation circumstances and operational requirements. All of these structures are contemplated by the present disclosure.

The notification receiver may be one or more general purpose computers cell phones personal data assistants PDAs or other electronics communication device configured to receive notifications from the events monitoring server . General purpose computer systems are discussed in greater detail hereinafter. Cell phones and PDAs are discussed in greater detail hereinafter. In an embodiment the events monitoring server may send messages associated with one monitored location out to a plurality of notification receivers for example to a computer of a first son to a mobile phone of a second son to a computer of a daughter and to a PDA of a granddaughter of the monitored elderly person. The notifications may be sent by the events monitoring server to the notification receiver in a variety of formats including an email message a simple message system SMS message a text message a pre recorded voice message a synthesized voice message and other message format.

The network is any of a public switched telephone network PSTN a public data network and or a combination of these.

The events monitoring server may be implemented on any general purpose computer system that is configured to handle the processing load. General purpose computer systems are discussed in greater detail hereinafter. The events monitoring server in an embodiment comprises a gateway manager a rule manager a rules processor a database an active static rule first in first out FIFO queue an active dynamic rule FIFO queue an events store a plurality of static rule processor threads and a plurality of dynamic rule processor threads . In different embodiments the events monitoring server may include more or fewer components. In different embodiments two or more of the components shown to be part of the events monitoring server may be combined into a single component.

The gateway manager receives events sent by the monitored location via the network and sends notifications to the notification receiver via the network . The gateway manager forwards the events to the rule manager and to the rules processor . The gateway manager may generate various logs and send them to the database for storage including event logs notification logs and other logs. In an embodiment a mail server not shown may receive the events sent by the monitored location via the network and forward the events to the gateway manager . The mail server may receive notifications from the gateway manager and forward the notifications to the notification receiver via the network .

The rule manager determines when static rules defined by entries in the database become active for example at an earliest daily monitoring time such as 7 AM which is the earliest Grandma is expected to rise and adds or pushes an appropriate static rule definition and associated state information onto the active static rule FIFO queue . Similarly the rule manager determines when dynamic rules defined by entries in the database are triggered by an appropriate event for example by Grandma entering the bathroom and adds or pushes an appropriate dynamic rule definition and state information onto the active static rule FIFO queue . Pushing rule definitions and rule state onto the active rule FIFO queue may be referred to as pushing a rule onto the queue . Both static and dynamic rules will be discussed in greater detail hereinafter.

The rules processor launches an effective number of static rule processor threads and an effective number of dynamic rule processor threads to handle the event processing load. A thread is short for a thread of execution. Threads may be thought of as light weight processes because threads are associated with less context than are processes and hence context switching for threads is less involved and time consuming than context switching for processes.

The number of threads launched by the rules processor may be determined by a configuration parameter of the events monitoring server for example set by an application programming interface API or control panel not shown of the events monitoring server . Alternatively the number of threads launched by the rules processor may be determined automatically in response to changing event processing load. The event processing load may grow or decline according to daily trends weekly trends seasonal trends as well as subscription trends.

The rules processor places events received from the gateway manager into the events store . The events store may be any of a variety of data structures including queues linked lists rings binary search trees hash tables and other data structures known to those skilled in the art. The data structures may be chosen to support efficient searching for events associated with a specific chain rule for example associated based on an account number. The rules processor grooms the events store to remove expired events for example events that are older than oldest rule or the least recently processed rule in either of the active static rule FIFO queue and the active dynamic rule FIFO queue . Note that if the event is older than the oldest rule this implies that the appropriate rules have already responded to the event and hence the event may be discarded. Grooming the events store reduces search times and conserves memory resources. In an embodiment the static rule processor threads and the dynamic rule processor threads may remove expired events for example those events which associate to only one rule.

Each of the static rule processor threads are instantiations of the same static rule processing code. Similarly each of the dynamic rule processor threads are instantiations of the same dynamic rule processing code. When one of the static rule processor threads is idle the rules processor fetches or pops a rule off of the active static rule FIFO queue and provides this rule to the one of the static rule processor threads that is idle. In an embodiment there may be a parameter associated with static rules that assure that the static rule remains on the active static rule FIFO queue for a minimum time duration for example for a minimum of one minute for a minimum of five minutes or for some other effective minimum time duration. Providing a minimum time duration that a static rule remains on the active static rule FIFO queue may promote effective utilization of processing resources. Popping a rule off of the active rule FIFO queue may involve removing both a definition of the rule and any state associated with the rule. The rule as discussed in more detail hereinafter may define a linked or chained group of rules for responding to sensor events.

The static rule processor thread searches the events store for an event associated with the rule. If there is no associated event and if a completion time limit associated with the rule has not passed the static rule processor thread may return the rule to the active static rule FIFO queue for processing again at a later time. If the completion time limit associated with the rule has passed the static rule processor thread may send a negative notification message defined by the rule to the rules processor the rules processor sends the negative notification message to the gateway manager and the gateway manager sends the negative notification message for example grandma has not risen from bed this morning to the notification receiver .

If the static rule processor thread finds an event associated with the rule the static rule processor thread processes the event in accordance with the rule for example marking the status of one of several event chain steps or gates as TRUE or completed. This may also be referred to as marking the status of a rule for example one of multiple rules all associated with the same chain rule as COMPLETED. If the static rule processor thread determines that all of the event chain rule steps or gates are completed the static rule processor thread may mark the status of the event chain rule completed and sends a positive notification message to the notification receiver through the series of the rules processor and the gateway manager as described above for example sending a grandma is up and about this morning message. The static rule processor thread does not return the rule to the active static rule FIFO queue when the rule is complete.

When one of the dynamic rule processor threads is idle the rules processor fetches or pops a rule off of the active dynamic rule FIFO queue and provides this rule to the one of the dynamic rule processor threads that is idle. In an embodiment there may be a parameter associated with dynamic rules that assure that the dynamic rule remains on the active dynamic rule FIFO queue for a minimum time duration for example for a minimum of one minute for a minimum of five minutes or for some other effective minimum time duration. Providing a minimum time duration that a dynamic rule remains on the active dynamic rule FIFO queue may promote effective utilization of processing resources. The processing of the rules by the dynamic rule processor threads is similar to that of the static rule processor threads . The dynamic rule processor thread searches the events store for an event associated with the rule. If there is no associated event and if a completion time limit associated with the rule has not passed the dynamic rule processor thread may return the rule to the active dynamic rule FIFO queue for processing again at a later time.

Time limits associated with dynamic rules are linked to a time of the trigger event associated with the dynamic rule. For example if a first dynamic rule is linked to the trigger event of motion in the bathroom and if grandma enters the bathroom at 1 33 PM time limits associated with the first dynamic rule are relative to 1 33 PM. For example a bedroom motion rule portion of the first dynamic rule may include a duration of 30 minutes a step message start time of 15 minutes and a step interval of 5 minutes. In this exemplary case if motion is not detected in the bedroom within 15 minutes after the trigger event for example by 1 48 PM the dynamic rule processor threads sends a first step notification message to the notification receiver through the intermediary of the rules processor and the gateway manager . The step notification message may be grandma has entered and remains in the bathroom. If motion in the bedroom is not detected this step notification message is repeatedly sent at the time intervals defined by the step interval for example every 5 minutes at 1 53 PM and 1 58 PM. If motion in the bedroom is not detected within the duration for example 30 minutes after 1 33 PM or 2 03 PM the dynamic rule processor threads sends a negative notification message to the notification receiver through the intermediary of the rules processor and the gateway manager for example grandma has entered the bathroom and has not exited for an excessive time duration. 

It is contemplated that some dynamic rules may be defined to have zero time duration which would typically have the effect that when such a zero time duration dynamic rule is triggered by the associated trigger event that the associated notification would be immediately sent. This processing behavior may be desirable for some events such as the opening of a window which may signal a forced entry has occurred. In an embodiment a zero time duration dynamic rule may be conditioned on one or more preceding dynamic rules within an associated rule chain for example preceding rules which collectively are associated with the resident leaving their home or the resident retiring for sleep.

If the dynamic rule processor thread finds an event associated with the rule the dynamic rule processor thread processes the event in accordance with the rule for example marking the status of one of several event chain steps or gates as TRUE or completed. If the dynamic rule processor thread determines that all of the event chain rule steps or gates are completed the dynamic rule processor thread may mark the status of the event chain rule completed and sends a positive notification message to the notification receiver through the series of the rules processor and the gateway manager as described above for example sending a grandma has exited the bathroom and resumed other activities. The dynamic rule processor thread does not return the rule to the active dynamic rule FIFO queue when the rule is complete.

To promote flexibility and ease of engaging with new subscribers the functionality provided by the events monitoring server for any particular monitored location may be defined by entries in tables in the database . These tables may include for example a rule chain table a static rule table a dynamic rule table and a rule sensor table. By changing or updating these table entries the event monitoring functionality of the events monitoring server may be changed. This may be referred to as a data driven application. This capability may allow for easy addition of new subscribers to the events monitoring system .

A rule chain generally may be composed from multiple entries in the rule chain table which share a common account number and a common rule chain identifier. The rule chain associates one or more rules together to provide an event monitoring sequence of interest. Each entry in the rule chain table identifies a rule that is defined in either the static rule table or the dynamic rule table. The rule chain entry may define the positive notification message that is to be sent when the rule chain or the event monitoring sequence completes successfully.

For example a daughter may wish to confirm that her elderly mother 1 rises from bed as evidenced by motion detected by one of two motion sensors in a bedroom between 7 AM and 8 AM as defined by a first static rule 2 moves about a living room area as evidenced by motion detected by a motion sensor in the living room between 7 30 AM and 9 AM as defined by a second static rule and 3 opens a refrigerator door as evidenced by a sensor associated with the refrigerator door between 9 AM and 10 AM as defined by a third static rule. When the three events monitored by the three static rules complete successfully the positive notification message mother is up and about may be sent to the daughter. A rule chain that associates the first static rule the second static rule and the third static rule may be defined by creating three appropriate entries in the rule chain table. An embodiment of an exemplary format for entries in the rule chain table is represented in the form of a SQL command below.

Note that in other embodiments other fields may be included in the rule chain table and fields may be formatted differently than expressed above.

A static rule generally may be defined by an entry in the static rule table and by one or more associated entries in the rule sensor table. The static rule is associated with one or more rule chains by a static rule name or identifier and by an account or customer identifier. One or more sensor rules are associated with the static rule by including the static rule name or identifier in the sensor rule entries in the rule sensor table as discussed below. The static rule may define a start time and an end time for processing the static rule.

The static rule may define a gated function to promote monitoring events generated by more than one sensor. The gated function defines how the rule is to combine the states of the monitored sensors when appropriate. The static rule may be said to define or specify a condition which may be the combination of time limit conditions and gated function conditions. If only one sensor is monitored by a static rule the gated function field may contain the NOT NULL value. An embodiment of an exemplary format for entries in the static rule table is represented in the form of a SQL command below.

Note that in other embodiments other fields may be included in the static rule table and fields may be formatted differently than expressed above.

A dynamic rule generally may be defined by an entry in the dynamic rule table and by one or more associated entries in the rule sensor table. The dynamic rule is associated with one or more rule chains by a dynamic rule name or identifier and by an account or customer identifier. One or more sensor rules are associated with the dynamic rule by including the dynamic rule name or identifier in the sensor rule entries in the rule sensor table as discussed below. The dynamic rule may define a duration and other timing parameters. As noted above in some circumstances a zero time duration may be suitable in some monitoring situations. The dynamic rule defines a gated function to promote monitoring events generated by more than one sensor. The dynamic rule may be said to define or specify a condition which may be the combination of time limit conditions for example the duration and step values and gated function conditions. An embodiment of an exemplary format for entries in the dynamic rule table is represented in the form of a SQL command below.

Note that in other embodiments other fields may be included in the dynamic rule table and fields may be formatted differently than expressed above.

A sensor rule generally may be defined in the rule sensor table. The sensor rule is associated with a static rule or a dynamic rule by an account or customer identifier and by the name of the static or dynamic rule. The sensor rule may identify a sensor type and an operator that indicates what condition causes the sensor to be TRUE. An embodiment of an exemplary format for entries in the sensor rule table is represented in the form of a SQL command below.

Note that in other embodiments other fields may be included in the rule sensor table and fields may be formatted differently than expressed above.

Turning now to a method is described that may be performed by at least some of the components of the events monitoring server . In block static rules are added to the static rules queue dynamic rules are added to the dynamic rules queue and events are added to the events store . The static and dynamic rules may be added to the rules queues at different times. For example the static rules may be added to the static rules queue at the start time identified in an associated static rule table entry and the dynamic rule may be added to the dynamic rules queue at the time that the trigger event identified in an associated chain rule table entry is received. The events are added to the events store at the times they are received.

In block a rule definition and associated state information is removed from one of the rules queues . The rule definition may identify a rule chain including a description of one or more rules and one or more sensors. In block the pending events for example events in the event store are checked to see if an event related to the rule is present for example by matching an account id and a rule name associated with the event with an account id and a rule name associated with the rule. If there is a match between a pending event and the rule in block the rule is processed based on the event for example the rule may be processed by one of the processor threads . If the event indicates that a sensor is TRUE the associated rule may be given the status of TRUE for example a bedroom motion rule may be given the status of TRUE when an associated bedroom sensor event is matched. In block the rule may be completed because the rule timed out the failure case or because all of the events associated with the rule had completed as expected the success case. In block if the rule chain is completed successfully in block an optional positive notification message is sent. Otherwise in block if the rule chain completes without success in block a negative message is sent. For some dynamic rules sending a positive notification message is not mandatory but only optional.

In block if there is no pending event that matches the rule in block the rule definition and state information are returned to the rules queue for more processing at a later time. In block similarly if the rule is not completed in block the rule definition and state information are returned to the rules queue for more processing at a later time.

An example scenario will be discussed to further illustrate the method . At 7 AM a static rule for bedroom motion may be added to the static rules queue . The static rule for bedroom motion is periodically removed from the static rules queue and the events store is searched for a bedroom motion sensor event. Not finding the bedroom motion sensor event on the events store the static rule for bedroom motion is returned to the end of the static rules queue . At 7 30 AM a static rule for common area motion for example motion in a living room area may be added to the static rules queue . The static rule for common area motion is periodically removed from the static rules queue and the events store is searched for a common area motion sensor event. Not finding the common area motion sensor event on the events store the static rule for common area motion is returned to the end of the static rules queue .

At 7 40 AM a bedroom motion event is received and added to the events store . At some later time the static rule for bedroom motion is removed from the static rules queue and the events store is searched for a bedroom motion event. The bedroom motion event is found on the events store the static rule for bedroom motion is set to a TRUE value and returned to the static rules queue . The bedroom motion event is deleted from the events store .

At 7 50 AM a common area motion event is received and added to the events store . At some later time the static rule for common area motion is removed from the static rules queue and the events store is searched for a common area motion event. The common area motion event is found on the events store the static rule for common area motion is set to a TRUE value and returned to the static rules queue . The common area motion event is deleted from the events store . If the static rule for bedroom motion and the static rule for common area motion form a complete rule chain on completion of both the static rule for bedroom motion and the static rule for common area motion before time outs associated with each static rule a positive message is sent to a subscriber for example a grandma is up and about in her house message via email to a granddaughter. The static rules for bedroom motion and for common area motion are removed from the static rules queue .

In another scenario if the static rule for common area motion has an expiration time of 8 AM and the static rule for common area motion has not been deemed TRUE before 8 AM for example if no common area motion event has been received and stored in the events store before 8 AM the static rule for common area motion is set FALSE and a negative message defined in the static rule for common area motion is sent to a subscriber for example a grandma did not move through the common area message via email to the granddaughter.

Continuing with the primary example scenario when a bathroom motion sensor event is received a dynamic rule for bedroom motion may be added to the dynamic rules queue and an associated bedroom motion timer is initiated. At some later time the dynamic rule for bedroom motion is removed from the dynamic rules queue and the events store is searched for a bedroom motion event. Not finding the bedroom motion event on the events store the dynamic rule for bedroom motion is returned to the end of the dynamic rules queue .

A bedroom motion event is received and placed in the events store . When the dynamic rule for bedroom motion is removed from the dynamic rules queue for processing the associated bedroom motion event is found in the events store . The bedroom motion event is removed from the events store the dynamic rule for bedroom motion is set to TRUE and returned to the dynamic rules queue and a dynamic rule for hallway motion which may be sequentially linked with the dynamic rule for bedroom motion is added to the dynamic rules queue and an associated hallway motion timer is initiated. If the timer associated with the dynamic rule for bedroom motion expires before the bedroom motion event is received a negative message is sent to the subscriber for example a grandma has been in the bathroom for an excessive amount of time message emailed to the granddaughter.

At some later time the dynamic rule for hallway motion is removed from the dynamic rules queue and the events store is searched for a hallway motion event. Not finding the hallway motion event on the events store the dynamic rule for hallway motion is returned to the end of the dynamic rules queue .

A hallway motion event is received and placed in the events store . When the dynamic rule for hallway motion is removed from the dynamic rules queue for processing the associated hallway motion event is found in the events store the dynamic rule for hallway motion is set to TRUE and returned to the dynamic rules queue . The hallway motion event is removed from the events store . If the dynamic rules for bedroom motion and hallway motion form a complete dynamic rule chain a positive message may be sent out to a subscriber for example grandma has entered and left the bathroom to the granddaughter. No message is necessary however and whether a message is sent or not sent is a matter of how the rule chain for monitoring the bathroom is defined by the subscriber. Some subscribers may wish to receive a notification of grandma leaving the bathroom but other subscribers may only wish to receive a notification if grandma does not leave the bathroom in a timely interval.

If the timer associated with the dynamic rule for hallway motion expires before the hallway motion event is received a negative message may be sent to the subscriber for example a grandma used the bathroom and then entered the bedroom but has not exited the bedroom for an excessive amount of time message emailed to the granddaughter. Using other rule chain definitions different subscribers can define a monitoring scenario that suits their monitoring needs. While a system monitoring the movements of an elderly woman has been described in the example scenario above one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the system may be used to monitor other buildings and or dwellings. Also while a single monitored location was the focus of the example scenario above it should be understood that events and rules from a plurality of separate buildings and or dwellings associated with a plurality of subscribers will be entered into the events store the static rules queue and the dynamic rules queue . While an extended scenario has been described above in some embodiments events and rules may be processed differently.

Turning now to a method of providing elder care is described. In block motion is detected at a monitored location for example in a bedroom of an elderly mother of an events monitoring subscriber. In block the motion event is processed based on a first version of rules stored in the database . For example the event monitoring rules associated with the elderly mother may be defined in a series of entries in a chain rule table in a dynamic rules table in a static rules table and in a sensor rules table wherein all the entries of the several tables are associated at least by a common account identification number. The processing may lead to sending a mother is up and about message to the events monitoring subscriber.

In block the event monitoring rules associated with the elderly mother are changed or updated to a second version. Because the rules are defined by entries in database tables the rules are changed simply by revising the database tables. No computer programs need be recompiled to bring the changed event monitoring functionality into effect no virtual machine need be restarted. In block motion is detected at the monitored location of the elderly mother for example the next morning. In block the motion event is processed based on the second version of rules stored in the database . The processing according to the second version or rules may lead to sending a mother is up and about and has accessed the refrigerator this morning message to the events monitoring subscriber.

Portions of the events monitoring system described above may be implemented on any general purpose computer with sufficient processing power memory resources and network throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it. For example in an embodiment the events monitoring server and the sensor monitor may be general purpose computers. In an embodiment the notification receiver may be a general purpose computer or it may be a mobile device such as a mobile phone or PDA. illustrates a typical general purpose computer system suitable for implementing one or more embodiments disclosed herein. The computer system includes a processor which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU that is in communication with memory devices including secondary storage read only memory ROM random access memory RAM input output I O devices and network connectivity devices . The processor may be implemented as one or more CPU chips.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage. The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage .

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices. The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA and or global system for mobile communications GSM radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in optical media for example optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed referred to herein as the transmission medium may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices .

The handset includes a display and a touch sensitive surface or keys for input by a user. The handset may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The handset may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The handset may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the handset to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the handset may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer handset .

The handset may execute a web browser application which enables the display to show a web page. The web page may be obtained via wireless communications with a cell tower a wireless network access node a peer handset or any other wireless communication network or system. The cell tower or wireless network access node is coupled to a wired network such as the Internet. Via the wireless link and the wired network the handset has access to information on various servers such as a server . The server may provide content that may be shown on the display . Alternately the handset may access the cell tower through a peer handset acting as an intermediary in a relay type or hop type of connection.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the handset in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the handset to send and receive information from a cellular network or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer handset . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas whereby to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedence matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast fourier transforming IFFT fast fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF transceiver portions of the antenna and front end the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset port and outputs to the earpiece speaker and the headset port . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the handset to be used as a cell phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast fourier transforming IFFT fast fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the handset to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the handset to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the handset to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the I O interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the handset . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the handset to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the handset to determine its position. In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology different from Charge Coupled Device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

