---

title: Electronic device with reconfigurable keypad
abstract: A reconfigurable keypad for enhancing user experience of an electronic device. The keypad includes a keypad display implemented as any type of display devices that can display different configurations of characters, symbols or images. The keypad display is placed adjacent an application display module. Both the keypad display and the application display module are covered with a common protective film, giving an appearance of a continuous top surface. The keypad also has a mechanism for providing tactile feedback to the user indicating whether the keypad was properly pressed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442584&OS=09442584&RS=09442584
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09442584
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070730
---
The present disclosure relates generally to keypads for receiving user inputs for operating electronic devices more specifically to keypads capable of changing its configuration according to input modes of the electronic devices.

A physical keypad includes a set of buttons or keys each mapped to represent a different number letter symbol or function. The physical keypads are often used in electronic devices such as telephones Personal Digital Assistants PDA mobile computing devices and remote controllers. The physical keypads are generally designed to be functionally adapted to the specific electronic devices. To provide the necessary functional user inputs to the electronic device the physical keypads have a set of buttons or keys arranged in a particular configuration. The physical keypad is often the main area of user interaction. Therefore the physical keypad is often designed to be aesthetically pleasing to the user.

It is generally preferable to provide the physical keypad with a minimum number of buttons or keys. A large number of buttons or keys in the physical keypads may cause confusion to the user as to which button to press. Also the amount of space in the electronic device that can be used for placing the physical keypads is generally limited. Therefore in order to put more buttons or keys in the physical keypads the size of the buttons or keys needs to be reduced. The reduced size of the buttons or keys however makes it harder for the user to find and press the correct button of key.

Therefore in some electronic devices the same button of the physical keypad is used for indicating more than one number letter symbol or function that differ depending on the input modes of the electronic device. Using the same button to indicate different number alphabet symbol or function is advantageous because the number of buttons or keys can be reduced. The buttons or keys however must be printed or engraved with more than one number alphabet and symbol. Printing or engraving more than one number letter or symbol on the buttons or keys is aesthetically less pleasing. Also physical keypads using such buttons or keys however may cause confusion to the user because the user may become uncertain which printing or engraving indicates the correct input in the current input mode. In addition overpopulating a button with symbols or text could eventually make it difficult to read due to crowding in a limited space.

Another input device often used is a touchscreen. The touchscreens display graphical user interface to the user as well as receiving inputs from the user through the touch of the screen by a finger or a stylus. The touchscreens are often used in electronic devices to replace or supplement the keypads. The touchscreens are also capable of displaying various types of virtual keypads on the screen. Because the virtual keypads displayed on the touchscreen can be changed depending on the input modes of the electronic device it is possible to display only the buttons or keys associated with the current input mode of the electronic device on the touchscreens. Therefore using the virtual keypads is more intuitive to the user and aesthetically pleasing compared to the physical keypads.

The touchscreens however have the disadvantage of high power consumption. The touchscreens use display devices such as liquid crystal displays LCD that employ backlights. The backlight consumes considerable amount of electricity. Such high power consumption is especially problematic for mobile electronic devices that use batteries. Another issue in using the touchscreen is that the touchscreen provides limited or no tactile feedback. Therefore it may be difficult for the user to tell whether the touchscreen was properly pressed or not.

Therefore among other deficiencies the present art lacks an input device that is less confusing to the user. The present art also lacks input devices that are aesthetically pleasing while consuming less power.

Embodiments disclosed employs a reconfigurable keypad module that displays different combinations of numbers letters or symbols depending on the input mode of an electronic device. In one embodiment buttons or keys relevant to the current input mode of the electronic device may be displayed. This reduces or eliminates users confusion as to operating the electronic device using the keypads. The keypad is also aesthetically pleasing because the buttons or keys of the keypads do not appear crammed with more than one number letter or symbol.

In one embodiment the keypad module is separate from the main or application display module that serves as a primary display. The main or application display module is a high resolution display. The keypad module uses a low resolution keypad display that consumes less electricity compared to the main or application display module.

In one embodiment the keypad display module is placed adjacent the main or application display module. By placing the keypad display module adjacent the main or application display module the user of the electronic device can access both display modules conveniently. Also placing the keypad display module adjacent the main or application display module allows the form factor of the electronic device to become compact. The top surface of the keypad display module is flush with the top surface of the main or application display module to give the feel of a continuous top surface. The top surface of the keypad display module and the top surface of the main or application display module may be covered with a protective film.

In one embodiment the keypad display module includes a touch panel for sensing the input from the user. The keypad display module may also include tactile switches or metal snap domes to provide tactile feedback to the user and to gate the operation of the keypad display module. Using tactile switches or metal snap domes is advantageous compared to other tactile feedback mechanisms because they are reliable and inexpensive to implement.

In other embodiment the keypad display module includes a series of mechanical switches for sensing the input from the user. The mechanical switches sense the input from the user as well as providing the tactile feedback to the user.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the disclosed subject matter.

The user interface units of the following embodiments allow keypads of different configurations to be displayed on a keypad module according to the modes of electronic devices. A user of the device is presented with buttons or keys that are relevant or essential to the current operational status of the electronic devices. The keypad module uses a display device that consumes a small amount of power. A mechanism for providing tactile feedback to the user may be included in the keypad module. The changing keypad in conjunction with the tactile feedback provides enhanced user experiences.

An electronic device includes any devices operated by electricity that requires a user interface to interact with the user. The electronic devices include both mobile devices and stationary devices. The electronic devices may be operated by batteries or external power sources. The electronic devices include among other devices mobile phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld game consoles remote controllers house appliances mobile or desktop computers and audio and video.

A main or application display module is a display module in the electronic device that serves as a primary display. The main or application display displays user and system applications images videos and the like. The main or application display module is often but not necessarily provided on a side of the electronic device that is most accessible to the user. The main or application display module includes among other displays backlit LCDs reflective LCDs electroluminescent EL displays organic light emitting diodes OLED electrophoretic displays EPD and bistable displays. The main or application display module displays various characters symbols or images associated with the operation of the electronic device.

A keypad display is a display device associated with the keypad display module. The keypad display is separate from the main or application display module and displays buttons or keys associated with the user inputs. The keypad display may include among other displays backlit LCDs reflective LCDs electroluminescent EL displays organic light emitting diodes OLED electrophoretic displays EPD and bistable displays. The keypad display has different characteristics from the main or application display module such as lower power consumption slower response speed different pixel resolution different color qualities different sizes and flexibility of the substrate.

In one embodiment the top surface of the main or application display module is flush with the top surface of the keypad module . By having the top surfaces at the same level the smartphone is less susceptible to scratches or damages that may be caused by any protruding surfaces. Moreover the plane top surface of the smartphone is aesthetically pleasing.

In one embodiment the main or application display module includes a touchscreen that allows sensing of the user inputs. Examples of touchscreen include resistive touchscreens surface acoustic wave SAW touchscreens capacitive touchscreens infrared touchscreens strain gauge touchscreens optical imaging touchscreens touchscreens using dispersive signal technology and touchscreens using acoustic pulse recognition. The main or application display module is a high resolution display that may be implemented by using various types of display technology including emissive transmissive displays and reflective displays. In one embodiment the main or application display module has a high response speed and high resolution adapted to display application views. The application views include graphical user interfaces images videos and the like.

In one embodiment the keypad module includes a keypad display. The keypad display renders numeric alphabet and character buttons or keys as well as functional control buttons or keys e.g. control wheel play stop pause fast forward and rewind . The keypad display that can also be implemented by using various types of display technology including emissive transmissive displays and reflective displays. In one embodiment the keypad display is a display device that consumes less power compared to the main or application display module. The keypad display may be turned on for a prolonged time even when the user is not actively using the smartphone . In contrast the main or application display module is generally activated intermittently only when the user is actively using the smartphone . Therefore it is advantageous to implement the keypad display using a display device that consumes less energy compared to the main or application display of the main or application display module.

In one embodiment the keypad display also has a lower response speed and a lower resolution compared to the main or application display module. Compared to the application views displayed on the main or application display module the keypad display changes less often only when the input modes of the smartphone changes and less dynamically compared to the application views of the main or application display module. Therefore the keypad display need not have the high response speed and resolution as required by the main or application display module .

In one embodiment the keypad display is a monochrome display. Color display devices tend to be more expensive and consume more power compared to monochrome displays. Also there is less advantage of providing color capabilities to the keypad display because the keypad display shows less information compared to the main or application display module .

In one embodiment the main or application display module is a backlit LCD and the keypad display is a bistable display. The backlit LCD displays dynamic images that enable the user to interactively use the application views on the smartphone . The bistable display on the other hand provides sufficient indication to identify the buttons or keys while consuming less amount of power. The bistable display for use in the keypad display includes among others E ink of E Ink Corporation Cambridge Mass. Interferometric Modulator IMOD of Qualcomm San Diego Calif. and Digital Micro Shutter display of Pixtronix Wilmington Mass. . Using the bistable display for the keypad display is especially advantageous because the keypad display does not change its images often. Because the bistable display consumes a minimal amount of power when the images remain unchanged the bistable display is especially adapted for the keypad display.

In one embodiment the main or application display module is a touchscreen that includes a touch panel for sensing the user inputs via fingers or a stylus as explained in detail below with reference to . In one embodiment the keypad module also includes a touch panel for sensing the user inputs via fingers as explained below with reference to . In another embodiment the keypad module includes a set of mechanical switches to sense the user inputs as explained in detail below with reference to .

The PCB may include among other components a processor one or more storage medium e.g. flash memory or hard drive and one or more buses connecting these components as explained in detail below with reference to .

The keypad display receives power from the battery and displays keypads in various configurations. In one embodiment the keypad display includes a backlight layer not shown to illuminate the keypad display . In another embodiment a front light not shown is provided to illuminate the keypad display . The keypad display is coupled to the PCB to receive signals to modify the keypad displayed on the keypad display . In another embodiment the keypad display is a reflective type that provides hi contrast images without any backlight. In one embodiment the keypad display is flexible so that the user can sense the tactile feedback from the tactile switches or metal snap domes after pressing the keypad display . Using tactile switches or metal snap domes are advantageous compared to other tactile feedback mechanisms e.g. a battery powered vibrator because they are reliable inexpensive to implement and do not consume power.

The touch panel is placed on the top of the tactile switches or metal snap domes and below the keypad display . The touch panel may use any type of overlays for sensing users touch including among other overlays a resistive touch panel and a capacitive touch panel. The touch panel is also coupled to the PCB via a line not shown to send the user input signals to the PCB .

One or more tactile switches or metal snap domes are located between the casing and the touch panel . The one or more tactile switches or metal snap domes react to the pressure exerted by the user s fingers to provide the tactile feedback to the user. By providing the tactile feedback the user may conveniently sense whether the keypad was properly pressed without resorting to other changes in the smartphone e.g. changes in the application views of the main or application display module responding to the input . In one embodiment the touch panel senses the location of the keypad being pressed and the tactile switches or metal snap domes also function to gate any operation intended by the user s keypad operation. That is the touch of the keypad must be followed by sufficient pressure on the tactile switches or metal snap domes to activate the tactile switch or metal snap domes . The intended operation of the smartphone is prompted only when the touch panel senses the location of the keypad being pressed and the tactile switch or metal snap domes send signals to the PCB . Such gating mechanism is advantageous because it prevents or reduces unwanted keypad inputs.

The main or application display module includes among other components a main or application display and a main or application touch panel . The main or application display displays the applications views to the user. The main or application touch panel senses the user input via a finger or a stylus. The main or application display and the main or application touch panel of the main or application display module are coupled to the PCB via a line not shown .

In the embodiment of a single protective film is placed on the top of the keypad display and the main or application display . The protective film provides protection against scratches and dirt as well as giving a smooth appearance of a continuous surface stretching from the keypad display to the main or application display . The protective cover is flexible and thin so as not to block the tactile feedback from the tactile switches or metal snap domes .

Referring next to a block diagram illustrates one embodiment of an architecture of the smartphone . The smartphone includes among other components memory a central processor a main or application display subsystem a keypad subsystem a display manager and a radio subsystem . The central processor communicates with memory the main or application display subsystem and the keypad subsystem via a bus . The central processor communicates with the radio subsystem via another bus .

In one embodiment the display manager renders images for display on the main or application display and the keypad display . The keypad display is a low resolution display. Therefore the keypad display may share the display manager with the main or application display without significantly increasing hardware or software requirements of the display manager . It is advantageous to use the display manger to render the images for both the keypad display and the main display because the number of hardware or software components may be reduced. Also by sharing the display manager the changes in images displayed on the keypad display and the main display may be more effectively synchronized. The display manager communicates with the central processor and the memory via the bus .

In one embodiment the main or application display subsystem includes among other components a main or application display a main or application touch panel manager and a main or application touch panel . The main or application touch panel senses the user input and sends a sensor signal to the main or application touch panel manager . The touch panel manager processes the sensor signal and generates a binary sensor data that is sent to the central processor and the memory via the bus .

In one embodiment the keypad subsystem includes among other components a keypad display a keypad touch panel manager and a keypad touch panel . The keypad display is coupled to the keypad manager to display the keypads in accordance with the signal from the keypad manager . The keypad touch panel senses the user input and sends a sensor signal indicating the user input signal to the keypad touch panel manager . The keypad touch panel manager processes the sensor signal into a binary sensor data that is sent to the memory and the central processor via the bus .

The display manager the main or application touch panel manager and the keypad touch panel manager may be implemented as software firmware hardware or combinations thereof Also one or more of these elements may be combined into a single module or be separated into multiple components.

The radio subsystem includes a radio processor a radio memory and a transceiver . The transceiver may be two separate components for transmitting and receiving signals or a single component for both transmitting and receiving signals. In either instance it is referenced as a transceiver . The receiver portion of the transceiver communicatively couples with a radio signal input of the smartphone e.g. an antenna where communication signals are received from an established call e.g. a connected or on going call . The received communication signals include voice or other sound signals received from the call and processed by the radio processor for output through the speaker not shown . The transmitter portion of the transceiver communicatively couples a radio signal output of the smartphone e.g. the antenna where communication signals are transmitted to an established e.g. a connected or coupled or active call. The communication signals for transmission include voice e.g. received through the microphone not shown of the smartphone or other sound signals that is processed by the radio processor for transmission through the transmitter of the transceiver to the established call.

In one embodiment the central processor executes logic by way of programming code instructions corresponding to executing applications on the memory . Numerous other components and variations may be made to the hardware architecture of the smartphone thus an embodiment such as shown by is merely illustrative.

The display manager includes among other components a keypad library a keypad display renderer a keypad display driver and a main display driver . The keypad library stores various keypad configurations that can be invoked by the operating system . Specifically the keypad library includes a standard library and a custom library . The standard library stores a preconfigured set of keypad configurations that may be invoked by the operating system . The custom library is a custom set of keypad configurations that may be loaded and stored for use from the application programs A N or from the user s individual settings.

The keypad display renderer loads the keypad configurations from the application keypad library according to the instructions from the operating system . The keypad display renderer generates characters symbols or images for display on the keypad display .

The keypad display driver is a display driver that is adapted specifically to the keypad display . The keypad display driver receives the information regarding the characters symbols or images from the keypad display renderer and generates timing signals to the keypad display device to form the corresponding characters symbols or images on the keypad display .

The main display driver is a display driver that is adapted specifically to the main or application display . The main display driver generates timing signals to the keypad display device to form images the main display . In one embodiment the keypad display driver is integrated with a main display driver .

One or more components of the display manager may be implemented as software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. Also one or more components of the display manager may be implemented as a single component instead of separate components.

As shown in the above example keypad configurations the keypad display displays different combination of buttons or keys or icons depending on the input modes. Therefore the user is less likely to experience confusion with crammed buttons or press wrong buttons. Also the appearance of the keypad is simplified and aesthetically enhanced.

In one embodiment the electronic device may include more than one keypad displays. A number of smaller keypad displays may be juxtaposed or be tiled on the surface of the electronic device. Then a protective film may be covered over the keypad displays to give the appearance of a single input module.

The keypad display may also have an arbitrary shape. The keypad display may be shaped in circle triangle or any other geometric shapes to suit the form factor of the electronic device. Also the keypad display may span more than one side of the electronic device. For example the keypad display may cover both the top surface and the side surfaces of the electronic device.

The software for components such as the display manager may be written or coded using a programming language. Examples of programming languages may include C C BASIC Perl Matlab Pascal Visual BASIC JAVA ActiveX assembly language machine code and so forth. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code object code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code and the like. The software may be stored using any type of computer readable media or machine readable media. Furthermore the software may be stored on the media as source code or object code. The software may also be stored on the media as compressed and or encrypted data. Examples of software may include any software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application programming interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B is true or present .

Also use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of embodiments of the present invention. This was done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the embodiments of the present invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Displaying different keypad configurations on a keypad display simplifies the appearance of the keypads and minimizes the user s confusion in operating the electronic devices. Also the keypad displayed to the user is simplified giving an aesthetically pleasing appearance. Further by using a display device adapted for keypads the power consumption is reduced. The keypads also provide tactile feedback to the user which allows the user to more easily sense whether a button on the keypad is properly pressed.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a user interface and electronic device through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus of the present invention disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

