---

title: Method and apparatus for coordinating transmission of short messages with hard handoff searches in a wireless communications system
abstract: A method and apparatus for coordinating the time at which a mobile station performs searches for alternative systems to which a hard handoff will occur. The mobile station receives a command which instructs the mobile station as to when to tune to alternative frequencies in order to search for indicates of the presence of an alternative system. In another system which includes the present invention, predetermined times are defined with respect to a reference point in time that is common to both the origination base station and a mobile station. The mobile station tunes to alternative frequencies to perform searches only during these predetermined times. In addition, the mobile station coordinates the transmission of reports, which indicate the results of searches for alternative systems such that these reports are only transmitted from the mobile station when the mobile station is tuned to the origination frequency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07653157&OS=07653157&RS=07653157
owner: Qualcomm Incorporated
number: 07653157
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070302
---
The present Application for Patent is a Continuation and claims priority to patent application Ser. No. 11 330 734 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR COORDINATING TRANSMISSION OF SHORT MESSAGES WITH HARD HANDOFF SEARCHES IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Jan. 11 2006 pending which is a Continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 7 010 068 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR COORDINATING TRANSMISSION OF SHORT MESSAGES WITH HARD HANDOFF SEARCHES IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM issued on Mar. 7 2006 which is a Continuation of U.S. Pat. No. 6 535 563 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR COORDINATING TRANSMISSION OF SHORT MESSAGES WITH HARD HANDOFF SEARCHES IN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM issued on Mar. 18 2003 all of which are assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to communications systems. More particularly the present invention relates to a method and apparatus for performing hard handoff between different wireless communication systems.

In a code division multiple access CDMA spread spectrum communication system a common frequency band is used for communication with all base stations within that system. An example of such a system is described in the TIA EIA Interim Standard IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System incorporated herein by reference. The generation and receipt of CDMA signals is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 901 307 entitled SPREAD SPECTRUM MULTIPLE ACCESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS USING SATELLITE OR TERRESTRIAL REPEATERS and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 459 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING WAVEFORMS IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM both of which are assigned to the assignees of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference.

Signals occupying the common frequency band are discriminated at the receiving station by using a high rate pseudo noise PN code. The PN code modulates signals transmitted from the base stations and the mobile stations. Signals from different base stations can be separately received at the receiving station by discrimination of the unique time offset that is introduced in the PN codes assigned to each base station. The high rate PN modulation also allows the receiving station to receive a signal from a single transmission station where the signal has traveled from the base station to the receiving station over several different distinct propagation paths commonly referred to as multipathing . Demodulation of multipath signals is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 490 165 entitled DEMODULATION ELEMENT ASSIGNMENT IN A SYSTEM CAPABLE OF RECEIVING MULTIPLE SIGNALS and in U.S. Pat. No. 5 109 390 entitled DIVERSITY RECEIVER IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM both of which are assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference.

The use by all base stations within a particular system of a common frequency band allows simultaneous communication between a mobile station and more than one base station. This is commonly referred to as soft handoff . One implementation of a soft handoff method and apparatus is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 501 entitled SOFT HANDOFF IN A CDMA CELLULAR TELEPHONE SYSTEM and U.S. Pat. No. 5 267 261 entitled MOBILE STATION ASSISTED SOFT HANDOFF IN A CDMA CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM both assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. Similarly a mobile station can be simultaneously communicating with two sectors of the same base station known as softer handoff as disclosed in U.S. patent application entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING HANDOFF BETWEEN SECTORS OF A COMMON BASE STATION U.S. Pat. No. 5 625 876 issued Apr. 29 1997 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. An important feature is that both soft handoffs and softer handoffs make the new connection before breaking the existing one.

If a mobile station travels outside the boundary of the system with which it is currently communicating it is desirable to maintain the communication link by transferring the call to a neighboring system if one exists. The neighboring system may use any wireless technology examples of which are CDMA NAMPS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA or global mobile systems GSM . If the neighboring system uses CDMA on the same frequency band as the current system an inter system soft handoff can be performed. In situations where inter system soft handoff is not available the communication link is transferred through a hard handoff where the current connection is broken before a new one is made. Examples of typical hard handoff situations include 1 the situation in which a mobile station is traveling from region serviced by a CDMA system to a region serviced by a system employing an alternate technology and 2 the situation in which a call is transferred between two CDMA systems which use different frequency bands inter frequency hard handoff .

Inter frequency hard handoffs can also occur between base stations of the same CDMA system. For example a region of high demand such as a dense urban area may require a greater number of frequencies to service demand than the suburban region surrounding it. It may not be cost effective to deploy all available frequencies throughout the system. A call originating on a frequency deployed only in the high congestion area must be handed off as the user travels to a less congested area. Another example is a system that encounters interference from another service operating on an interfering frequency within the system s boundaries. As users travel into an area suffering from interference from another service their call may need to be handed off to a different frequency.

Handoffs can be initiated using a variety of techniques. Handoff techniques including those using signal quality measurements to initiate a handoff are found in U.S. patent application entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HANDOFF BETWEEN DIFFERENT CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS now U.S. Pat. No. 5 697 055 issued Dec. 9 1997 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. Further disclosure of handoffs including measurement of round trip signal delay to initiate handoff is disclosed in U.S. patent application entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR HARD HANDOFF IN A CDMA SYSTEM now U.S. Pat. No. 5 848 063 issued Dec. 8 1998 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. Handoffs from CDMA systems to alternate technology systems are disclosed in U.S. patent application entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MOBILE UNIT ASSISTED CDMA TO ALTERNATIVE SYSTEM HARD HANDOFF U.S. Pat. No. 5 594 718 issued Jan. 14 1997 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. In the 718 patent pilot beacons are placed at the boundaries of the system. These beacons are transmitted within the frequency band that is being monitored by the mobile that approaches allowing the mobile to monitor the pilot beacon without retuning to another frequency band. When a mobile station reports these pilot beacons to the base station the base station knows that the mobile station is approaching the boundary and in response prepares for the possibility of an intersystem hard handoff.

When a system has determined that a call should be transferred to another system via hard handoff a message is sent to the mobile station directing it to do so along with parameters that enable the mobile station to connect with the destination system. The system from which the mobile station is departing has only estimates of the mobile station s actual location and environment so the parameters sent to the mobile station are not guaranteed to be accurate. For example with beacon aided handoff the measurement of the pilot beacon s signal strength can be a valid trigger for the handoff. However those base stations in the destination system that can effectively communicate with the mobile station are not necessarily known. However those base stations with which the mobile has effectively communicated and which are considered to be good candidates based upon additional criteria are maintained in a list within the mobile station. Inclusion in the list is based upon allocation of forward link resources by the base station in question. Allocation of forward link resources by all possible candidate base stations is wasteful of system resources and reduces available system capacity since only a relatively few candidates are typically required.

One method for increasing the probability of successfully completing a hard handoff is disclosed in U.S. patent application entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING MOBILE ASSISTED HARD HANDOFF BETWEEN COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS U.S. Pat. No. 5 999 816 issued Dec. 7 1999 assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference. In most current systems the mobile station has only one radio frequency RF front end circuit. Therefore only one frequency band can be received at a time. Therefore in order for the mobile station to communicate with the destination system contact with the origination system must cease. In the 746 application mobile stations tune temporarily to the frequency of the hard handoff destination system and search for available pilot signals hereafter referred to simply as pilots on that frequency for inclusion of the associated base stations in the active set. After the searching task is completed the mobile station will retune to the original frequency to resume current communications. While tuned to an alternate frequency any frames of data generated by the mobile station or transmitted by the base station will be corrupted. Typically the base station will provide only a subset of the possible offsets commonly referred to as an enable list for the mobile station to search.

A method for minimizing the duration of the search is disclosed in a U.S. patent application entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING MOBILE STATION ASSISTED HARD HANDOFF USING OFF LINE SEARCHING U.S. Pat. No. 6 134 440 issued Oct. 17 2000. In this application which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and which is incorporated herein by reference the receiver stores information received on the frequency band used by a potential hard handoff candidate base station. This information is not processed until after the receiver is tuned back to the frequency band used by the origination base station. By storing the information for processing after the receiver has retuned to the frequency used by the origination base station the receiver can be tuned to the frequency of the origination base station more of the time. Thus less information is lost. Nonetheless when the origination base station is transmitted at relatively high data rates information will be lost. When such information is lost the base station must retransmit the information or the receiver must make due without that information. Accordingly there is a need for a method and apparatus that further reduces the amount of information that is lost while tuning to alternate frequencies such as when attempting to identify potential hard handoff candidates.

The method and apparatus disclosed herein minimizes the amount of down time in the communication link between a mobile station and an origination base station while searching for a suitable system to which a mobile station assisted hard handoff will be executed.

In one example of the disclosed method and apparatus the mobile station tunes to an alternate frequency and samples the incoming data storing those samples in memory. During the time that the mobile station is tuned to the alternate frequency all data being transmitted to the mobile station on the forward link is lost. Any reverse link data transmitted by the mobile station would be transmitted on the alternate frequency. Therefore such reverse link data would not be received at the origination base station. When a sufficient number of samples have been stored the mobile station tunes back to the origination frequency. At this time forward link data is again received by the mobile station and reverse link data can be successfully transmitted to the origination base station. After retuning to the origination frequency a searcher in the mobile station will subsequently be employed to search for pilot signal offsets utilizing the stored data collected from the alternate frequency. In accordance with the method and apparatus disclosed herein due to the relatively short period of time required to sample and store information on the alternative frequency the active communication link is not broken. Neither is the active communication link affected by the subsequent off line search. Alternatively the processing may be done in real time while the receiver is tuned to the alternate frequency. However such real time processing typically increases the amount of time that the receiver will be tuned to the alternate frequency and thus will also increase the amount of information that will not be received by the receiver over the origination frequency.

In accordance with the method and apparatus disclosed herein error correction coding used by the receiver allows information that cannot be received due to the receiver being tuned to the alternate frequency to be determined based upon the information that is received over the origination frequency. The method and apparatus disclosed herein further improves the receiver by increasing the amount of transmit power when information is being transmitted that will be used by the receiver to determine the content of information transmitted when the receiver was tuned to the alternate frequency. Alternatively redundant information which is conventionally transmitted over the origination frequency when lower data rates are being used is removed to provide a window in time during which the receiver can be tuned to the alternate frequency.

The following is a detailed description of a method and apparatus that includes embodiments of the present invention. depicts a communication system in which mobile station is actively communicating with a fixed communication system on a forward link and reverse link through an origination base station . Origination base station is part of an origination system and transmits and receives information over forward link and reverse link respectively on a first frequency f. Mobile station is shown to be traveling from the origination system into a destination system which transmits and receives information on a second frequency f. The destination system includes destination base stations and which are not in active communication with mobile station . However pilot signals hereafter referred to simply as pilots from destination base stations and can be received by mobile station if mobile station is tuned to frequency f. Both the origination and destination systems are part of the fixed communication system that allows the mobile station to communicate with other communication devices such as conventional telephones wired to the public switch telephone network or other wireless communication devices. It should be understood that the fixed communication system may comprise any device or combination of devices that provides wireless communication between the mobile system and other communication devices.

In accordance with one example of the method and apparatus disclosed herein the mobile station is triggered to tune to an alternate frequency. For example the origination base station may use mobile station to perform a mobile station assisted interfrequency hard handoff. One example of a mobile assisted interfrequency hard handoff is disclosed in U.S. patent application entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERFORMING MOBILE ASSISTED HARD HANDOFF BETWEEN COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS U.S. Pat. No. 5 999 816 filed Dec. 7 1999 assigned to the assignee of the present invention. In such mobile assisted interfrequency hard handoffs the origination base station transmits a Tune Message to mobile station . The Tune Message directs the mobile station to tune to an alternate frequency f in this case and to search for a set of available pilots the pilots of destination base stations and for example.

Alternatively other events may trigger the mobile station to search for hard handoff candidates. For example the mobile may detect a signal such as a beacon signal being transmitted by base stations within another system. Such a beacon may be transmitted within the frequency band being monitored by the mobile station. The beacon indicates to the mobile that a hard handoff candidate may be nearby. In response the mobile will tune to an alternate frequency that is associated with the detected signal.

Upon being triggered to tune to an alternate frequency f mobile station tunes to the alternate frequency f and performs the activity which is appropriate to the trigger. For example if the trigger were a Tune Message the mobile station would tune to an alternate frequency and perform a search for hard handoff candidates. Once the activity is completed mobile station retunes to frequency f and resumes communication with origination base station . If the activity performed by the mobile station results in information that is to be transmitted such as the results of a search for pilots of candidate hard handoff systems the mobile station transmits a message indicating the results to origination base station of the origination system. The origination system determines whether further action should be taken based upon the results. Other devices or systems may also be involved in determining whether additional action is required. For example if the mobile station is searching for hard handoff candidates then the determination is made by the origination system in conjunction with the destination system as to whether to perform a hard handoff and if so to which destination base station s in the destination system.

While mobile station is tuned to frequency f all forward link traffic from origination base station is lost. Additionally in most conventional systems the same local oscillator is used by the transmitter section and the receiver section of the mobile station. Therefore any attempt to transmit reverse link data to the origination base station while the receiver is tuned to f would be futile. That is such transmissions would not be received by the origination base station because these transmissions would occur on frequency f and origination base station does not monitor frequency f.

In one example of the method and apparatus disclosed herein when mobile station is directed to tune to frequency f by origination base station the mobile station does not process the information in real time as was done in the prior art. Rather mobile station records samples of the signal on frequency f and stores those samples in memory. It will be understood that any memory device that is capable of saving the information for processing at a later time can be used such as a random access memory RAM . As soon as a desired number of samples have been taken mobile station retunes to frequency f and resumes communication with origination base station over the forward and reverse links . In this way the amount of time that the receiver spends tuned to frequencies other than the frequency over which the mobile is communicating with the origination base station is significantly reduced.

Information transmitted over the forward link is organized in frames that are transmitted over a period of approximately 20 milliseconds. In accordance with well known conventional techniques for transmitting information over digital wireless communications networks the information within the frame will be organized as a one or more error correction blocks depending upon the rate at which the data is being transmitted by the origination base station. Each such block is encoded to generate an error correction sequence. If any of the information within the sequence has been corrupted or lost i.e. referred to collectively as received in error the remaining information within the sequence may be used to derive that portion of the sequence that was received in error i.e. correct the errors . The amount of information that can be corrected depends upon the particular error correction encoding algorithm that is used. Wireless communications systems commonly rely on convolutional encoding schemes and Viterbi decoders to perform error correction. In addition information within a block is commonly interleaved to enhance the ability of the error correction scheme to correct errors that are caused by relatively long sequences of information being received in error. Interleaving is a process whereby information within the error correction sequences that is adjacent is dispersed within the error correction sequence i.e. the sequence is scrambled . For example if the sequence is an error correction sequence then the interleaved error correction sequence might be such that no two numbers that are adjacent in the original sequence are adjacent in the interleaved sequence. Algorithms for interleaving information are well known in the art. In some instances several error correction code blocks may be transmitted together in one 20 millisecond frame. Typically this occurs in relatively high data rate situations. Nonetheless each block is encoded independently. Typically the resulting error correction sequences would be interleaved independently as well.

Once data is captured the search is performed off line i.e. while the mobile station is tuned to frequency f . Accordingly communications resume between mobile station and origination base station more quickly than is possible if the information that is received is processed while the receiver remains tuned to frequency f. The duration of time that erasures are introduced by being tuned to frequency f is significantly less with the present invention than with the methods of the prior art. In an IS 95 system the tuning and retuning can be performed in approximately 4 ms. The memory size requirement in such a system allows for 512 chips of data sampled at twice the chip rate with 4 bits sample for both the I and Q channels. This results in a storage requirement of 1024 bytes. It will be obvious to one skilled in the art that alternate values can be substituted for those above each with known tradeoffs in complexity and performance. The capture time in such an embodiment of the present invention is approximately 0.5 ms. An IS 95 data frame is 20 ms in duration. Therefore for this example the total erasure time of approximately 5 ms does not even corrupt an entire frame.

In accordance with one embodiment the search for an alternate frequency f is aligned with lower rate frames such as 1 8 rate frames. In this case the amount of data erased will often be so insignificant as to be correctable by coding and interleaving such that no errors result.

In an alternative embodiment to reduce memory requirements a smaller sample size can be recorded from frequency f. Those results can be used to compute partial results in an off line search. Return trips to frequency f by mobile station can be performed until the search results are complete. Examples of search implementations are described below.

The method and apparatus results in a further improvement because the off line search need not be performed in real time . The search can be performed as fast as current technology allows the circuits to run or within power budgets a tradeoff common in the art. As such the system can be designed so that both the erasure rate and search time are greatly reduced in comparison with the methods of the prior art.

Because of the possibility of rapid variations in the received signal due to the changing environment in which mobile station operates it may be desirable to repeat the process of sampling the alternate frequency f a number of times if a large number of offsets are to be searched. Repeating the process allows for use of fresh data while the improvements provided by the present invention reduce the frame error cost associated with repeat ventures to the alternate frequency.

This method of sampling and storing information allows mobile station to begin establishing contact with a target base station while user data is still being transferred by the origination base station over the origination frequency. In addition mobile station can identify the time offsets at which the multipath signals are being received by the mobile station from the target base station before actually executing the hard handoff. Thus the amount of time required to acquire the target base station upon execution of the hard handoff is significantly reduced.

The process in disclosed above like all of the embodiments described in this description can be implemented in a computer program product having software to execute the process.

Because information received over the target frequency was collected and stored within the time segments and the duration of the acquisition process performed after execution of handoff is reduced and may be eliminated in some cases. The abbreviated acquisition process is performed using the preliminary data collected. For example the mobile station can use the information collected to greatly narrow the search window over which the mobile station looks for assignable multipath signals. In some cases the mobile station receiver will know the exact offsets for each of the multipath signals that are of interest within the target frequency band.

In accordance with one example of the method and apparatus disclosed herein immediately before and immediately after tuning the mobile station receiver to an alternate frequency data is transferred over the original frequency in a manner that effectively increases the instantaneous data rate with respect to the nominally selected data rate. Increasing the data rate with respect to the nominal data rate prevents information from being lost during the break in the reception which occurs when the mobile station is not tuned to the original frequency. That is by increasing the amount of data that is transmitted before and after the receiver is tuned to the alternate frequency a window is created during which the receiver in the mobile station can cease receiving information over the original frequency without any reduction in the total amount of data that is transmitted from the origination base station to the mobile station . This window is used to collect data on alternate frequencies of interest. The data rate may be increased over the nominally selected rate by a variety of means. The example given below is elegant because it may be implemented within the strictures of the IS 95 system.

One limiting factor in determining the data rate of a system is the desired link performance. The desired link performance is generally determined by the number of errors that can be tolerated in the resulting received signal. The error rate is a function of the ratio of the energy per bit to the noise power density e N at which the signal is received. The energy per bit e is the amount of signal power received integrated over the duration of one bit. For example the energy per bit is the same if a bit is received at 50 decibels with respect to a milliwatt dBm for a duration of one microsecond as if a bit is received at 47 dBm for a duration of 500 nanosecond. The noise power density N is a measure of the background noise to which the bit energy is subjected. Thus if background noise level remains the same but the power at which the bit is received is doubled the same data can be transferred in half as much time at the same e Nand hence the same link performance. It is upon this principle that boost mode operates and additional flexibility is added to the channel.

Boost mode is a means and method by which the data rate of a system may be temporarily increased. Boost mode operates within the strictures of an IS 95 system but is generally applicable to many systems. is a time line showing exemplary operation in boost mode. Five frames are shown in with time running from left to right. When the base station determines a need for boost mode the base station sends a boost mode command during the frame . The boost mode command designates an elected frame pair. In this case the base station has elected the second and third frame following the frame in which the command is received. During the frame data may be transferred in the standard manner. Also during the frame the mobile station processes the boost mode command. During the frames and the boost mode command is executed. During the first half of the frame the base station transfers data to the mobile station in boost mode. During boost mode the effective data rate is increased. During the second half of the frame the mobile station is free to perform an off frequency function such as the acquisition fragment process described above. Likewise during the first half of the frame the mobile station is free to continue performing the off frequency function. During the second half of the frame the base station transfers data to the mobile station in boost mode. During the frame standard data transfer may be resumed.

According to IS 95 each frame is 20 milliseconds in duration. Therefore the duration of the freed time created by this method is approximately 20 milliseconds. Typically the mobile station may require about 3 milliseconds to change to the target frequency band and about 3 ms to change back thus leaving about 14 milliseconds in order to perform the off frequency function. If the system is performing acquisition several boost mode frames may be performed in close succession. Because the field conditions are time variant acquisition data which is not timely used becomes obsolete.

The specific format of the boost mode command depends upon the off frequency operations which may be performed. If the boost mode command is specifying that the mobile station performs an acquisition fragment the boost mode command may have the following format frequency designation pilot signal designation search window size. The frequency designation designates the frequency band or channel at which the mobile station should perform the acquisition fragment. The pilot signal designation designates the sequence that the mobile station should use during the searching process. The search window size designates the set of time offsets over which the mobile station should correlate the sequence to the incoming data. If the relationship between the receipt of the boost mode command and the elected frame pair is not inherent in the message the boost mode command may also specify the elected frame pair. In it was assumed that upon receipt of the boost mode command the mobile station performs the specified task in the second and the third frame following receipt of the boost mode command.

The boost mode data transfer operates elegantly within the strictures of IS 95. Increasing the power at which the base station transmits the forward link signal during boost mode can be used in two distinct ways. First by transmitting with greater power the duration of a symbol can be reduced and so more information can be transmitted in the same amount of time. Second by transmitting with greater power the integrity of the information that is received will be greater and therefore the information will be received with fewer errors. This is especially true in cases in which a fade occurs during a frame. If the frame is transmitted with more power the fade will be less likely to cease errors. Therefore even without increasing the rate at which the data is transmitted the rate at which error free data will be received will be significantly higher. By decreasing the likelihood that errors will occur in the transmission the error correction capability of the receiver can be used to derive the content of the frame which was lost while the mobile station was tuned to an alternate frequency. Each of these two advantages can be used independently or they may be used together i.e. either the power can be raised and the information transmitted at the same rate with fewer errors or the power can be raised in order to support transmission at a greater rate .

The multiplier and the switch may be implemented in a variety of media including software and hardware. Typical embodiments of the method and apparatus comprise computer software that executes on a standard microprocessor or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC. Thus the method and apparatus disclosed herein is relatively easy to implement.

The mobile station decodes the data within a boost mode frame in the same manner in which it decodes a standard frame. Valid data is produced because of the means by which the data is encoded. If a boost mode frame comprises full rate data one half of the symbols are not transmitted. For example during the first elected frame of the second eight power control groups are not transmitted. Note however that due to the pattern used by the block interleaver the first eight transmitted power control groups contain all of the odd numbered symbols and that the second eight power control groups contain all of the even numbered symbols.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art given the symbols corresponding to just one output of the encoder the original bit sequence can be recovered by a standard convolutional decoder such as a Viterbi decoder and the mobile station architecture does not need to be modified in order to operate in boost mode. However the redundancy and hence the immunity to data loss such as due to fading gained by the encoding process has been lost. If the mobile station does not intervene with the standard data reception process the energy of the symbols which are not transmitted produce low level noise values which may be input into the decoding process but by the nature of the decoding process will not greatly affect the decoded output. Alternatively the mobile station may intervene and decode the symbols which are not transmitted as erasures at the mobile station . Either way the full rate data bits may be recovered with comparable performance to standard data transfer if the forward link signal level is raised by the boost mode multiplier to overcome the loss of redundancy.

As noted above according to IS 95 the forward link channel is typically punctured with power control commands. In this way the forward link channel carries a power control subchannel at the expense of the performance of the forward link channel. Because of the loss of redundancy the mobile station may not be able to decode the data based on only the even numbered symbols or only the odd numbered symbols if the symbols are also subject to power control puncturing. Therefore when a full rate frame is subject to the boost process the MUX no longer punctures the power control commands on the forward link channel. In addition the mobile station interprets each symbol it receives as data rather than replacing the power control bits with erasures before passing them to the decoding process.

Instead of puncturing the power control commands on the forward link channel the base station simply delays transmission of the power control command. For example referring again to the base station punctures the power control commands which would have been transferred in the frame and transmits them in the frame immediately following the second frame of the elected frame pair. Likewise the power control commands which would have been punctured onto the second frame of the elected frame pair are punctured onto the frame following the frame . This operation is advantageous because the reverse link channel will also be interrupted by the off frequency task and therefore the power control commands generated by the base station for the reverse link frames corresponding to the elected frame pair will not produce valid power control information. Therefore the power control commands which are created based upon the reverse link elected frame pair may be discarded by the base station and the delayed but valid power control commands are impressed upon the subsequent frames in place of the invalid commands.

Operation of the lower rates is even more elegant. For 1 2 rate frames in accordance with IS 95 the first eight power control groups contain all of the symbols from 1 to 192. Note that the second half of the frame is simply a repeat of the first half of the frame. Therefore even if the energy of one half of the frame is not transmitted the mobile station still receives all of the symbol data. If the forward link signal level is increased by the boost multiplier to overcome the loss of one half of the signal energy the mobile station can decode the half rate data with comparable performance as if the entire frame were transmitted.

Likewise note that for 1 4 rate frames accordingly to IS 95 the first four power control groups contain all of the symbols from 1 to 96 and that the symbols in the first four power control groups are simply repeated in the remaining 12 power control groups. Note that for 1 8 rate frames in accordance with IS 95 the first two power control groups contain all of the symbols from 1 to 48 and that the next power control groups repeat the same symbols seven more times. Therefore if the forward link signal level is increased by the boost multiplier to overcome the loss of one half of the signal energy the mobile station can decode the quarter rate and eighth rate data with comparable performance as if the entire frame were transmitted. The base station may also disable the power control subchannel for the lower rate data frames.

The increase in power due to the boost mode multiplier increases the interference to the other mobile stations at least during one half of the frame. During the other half of the frame no interference is added to the system. Therefore the average interference added by boost mode is the same as would have been added under normal operating conditions.

In the ideal situation during a boost mode frame the output power on the forward link channel is doubled. However in some cases such operation may not be necessary or possible. Also in some cases it may be sufficient to increase the power by less than double to achieve the desired system performance. In other cases depending on the current system operating parameters including the mobile station forward link power control index the base station may choose to deny the current mobile station a full doubling of the forward link channel power in favor of reducing the interference generated to the other mobile stations. For example typical base station designs limit the range of the forward link power control to approximately 3 dB below and 6 dB above the nominal level. If the boost mode multiplier would dictate a change outside of the allowed range the affects of the boost mode multiplier may need to be limited.

In general the invention can be implemented in any system in which the symbols are arranged so that a copy of each bit of information is passed during a subportion of a standard data unit. For example in the description above the interleaving pattern places a first set of symbols which comprises an encoded copy of each information bit from a rate one half convolutional encoder in the first half of each frame. In terms of a base station mobile station system described above either the forward or reverse link or both may be capable of operation in boost mode. For example in the ideal situation both the forward and reverse link channels enter boost mode simultaneously so that data is not lost on either link due to the boost mode operation.

Several alternative embodiments of the general principles given above will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. For example based on the explanation above it is clear to see that boost mode operates more elegantly when data is transmitted at less than full rate. Therefore in one embodiment the base station imposes a restriction on the data source to force the data to be less than full rate during the elected frame. For example the base station may impose a restriction on a variable rate vocoder or it may decrease the amount of digital data retrieved from a queue. In yet another embodiment the base station sends the boost mode command after it examines the elected frame and detects that the elected frame is less than full rate. For example the boost mode command may designate an elected frame pair which the base station already knows is comprised of less than full rate frames. In yet another embodiment the base station may attempt to predict the occurrence of low rate frames. For example digitized voice is statistically patternistic. In digital voice typically a series of low rate frames are interspersed with bursts of full rate frames. Upon detection of a series of low rate frames the base station may predict that an elected frame may comprise a low rate frame. During periods of high rate data the base station may choose to delay issuing the boost mode command. Thus the base station may predict a frame which is likely to comprise data at less than full rate.

In addition it is not necessary that the boost mode command consume system resources. For example in the boost mode command is seen to consume frame such that no user data is transferred during that frame. However just as the power control commands are punctured onto the power control subchannel on the forward link channel the boost mode command may be also punctured within the forward link channel. Alternatively the boost mode command may be transferred to the mobile station over a separate control channel.

Boost mode may be performed for other reasons besides performing temporary off frequency tasks at the mobile station . For example the system may use boost mode to create a time during which the mobile station may receive messages on a different channel operating at the same frequency such as a control channel. Alternatively the freed time may be used to perform an auxiliary function within the base station. If the auxiliary function is performed within the base station the base station may not need to notify the mobile station with the boost command.

In another example boost mode may be used to provide extra time to execute a permanent transition to a target frequency band. For example referring again to note that during the time segment data is transferred over the origination frequency at the higher boost mode data rate. The data transferred during the time segment would have continued to be transferred over the original channel during the time period indicated by a dashed region under normal operating conditions. Thus the service interruption period begins at the right hand edge of the dashed region rather than at the right hand edge of time segment . During the time indicated by dashed region the mobile station receiver may change the input frequency to the target frequency band and begin the acquisition or abbreviated acquisition process. In this case the base station sends the mobile station a boost mode transition command which designates an elected frame and a handoff frequency band. The base station sends boost mode data over the first half of the elected frame and terminates transmission during the second half of the elected frame.

In yet another example boost mode may be used to provide information concerning a valid handoff target frequency. As a mobile station moves about the coverage area of a system the system is not aware of the exact location of the mobile station . In order to determine whether the mobile station is in a location at which it should perform a hard handoff the mobile station may collect data samples at the target frequency using a similar method to the acquisition fragment process described above. The samples are examined to determine whether mobile station is receiving valid signal levels from target base stations.

In some instances such as the handoff determination application just described it may be advantageous to execute boost mode frames in a periodic or patternistic fashion. In such a case the boost mode command may designate a start time the pattern or period and an end time.

In some cases the mobile station itself may determine the time at which a boost mode frame should be executed. For example the mobile station may make such a determination based on a reverse link data characteristics or forward link performance characteristics. In such a case the mobile station sends the base station a boost mode command designating one or more elected frames.

Likewise it is not necessary that boost mode comprise an elected frame pair. Boost mode may be performed during a single frame or it may be performed over a series of frames. The elected frame pair need not be two continuous frames. If the off frequency task requires more time than that which is created within an elected frame pair the base station may execute a first boost mode frame pause the transmission of forward link channel for a number of frames and then execute a second boost mode frame.

Also the invention may be implemented such that more than half a frame or less than half a frame of freed time is created. For example if an elected frame carries eighth rate data in boost mode the data may be transmitted at approximately eight times the nominal level thereby creating freed time equal to 7 8 of a frame duration.

In one embodiment of a system which includes the present invention the time at which the mobile station will cease receiving the forward link signals on the origination frequency from the origination base station and tune to another frequency in order to search for signals being transmitted at such other frequencies is determined by a command from the origination base station . The time can be either expressly identified within the command or a period of time which is relatively long with respect to the amount of time required to perform a search can be identified within the command. If a relatively long period of time e.g. 80 ms is identified then the mobile station can select exactly when a search will be performed within this identified period of time. This command is preferably transmitted on the origination frequency. In an alternative system the mobile system will only tune to other frequencies at predetermined times with respect to the start or end of a frame or another reference point in time which would allow the origination base station and the mobile station to coordinate the time at which the mobile station will cease receiving transmissions from the origination base station . The timing of the search can then be coordinated with the time at which short messages are to be sent from the origination base station over the origination frequency.

In addition once the mobile station performs a search of alternative frequencies the mobile station reports back to the origination base station the results of the search. Since the origination base station will not be able to receive information from the mobile station until the mobile station is retuned to the origination frequency the mobile station must also ensure that such report messages are sent only when the mobile station has retuned to origination frequency.

For example messages such as control signaling messages which are less than 5 ms in duration are commonly transmitted to mobile stations on the origination frequency. In accordance with one embodiment of the system the origination base station ensures that short messages are transmitted only during a first portion such as the last half of a 20 ms frame. Therefore the origination base station commands the mobile station to tune to other frequencies only during portions of the frame other than the first portion such as the first half of the 20 ms frame such that this first portion does not overlap with the those portions of the frame during which either the short messages will be sent from the base station or report message will be sent from the mobile station. This is particularly important in cases in which a frame is divided into multiple subframes.

For example there is one proposal that is currently being considered by communication industry standards bodies in which a conventional 20 ms frame is divided into four 5 ms frames for transmission on a dedicated control channel. These 5 ms frames may then be grouped into a 20 ms frame. However each such subframe is encoded with an error correction code such that errors within a particular subframe can be corrected based on the content of only that subframe. Corrections to the particular subframe can only be made if a sufficient amount of correct data within that particular subframe is received. In this case tuning the mobile station to another frequency for as little as 3 ms may make it impossible to recover information that is sent during a particular 5 ms subframe since the information that is contained within such subframes is independently encoded i.e. the size of a block of data for error correction coding is equal to the amount of data that is transmitted in the 5 ms subframes . Therefore by ensuring that the origination base station coordinates the time at which short messages are sent with the time at which the mobile station will not be tuned to the origination frequency both the mobile station and origination base station can be assured that short messages intended for the mobile are successfully received by the mobile station . In addition by coordinating the time at which the mobile station sends report messages to the base station with the time at which the mobile station is tuned to the origination frequency transmission by the origination base station of the report messages will not be interrupted by the search itself or any subsequent searches.

The previous description of the preferred embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. The various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without the use of the inventive faculty. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

