---

title: Alpha-aminoamide derivatives useful in the treatment of cognitive disorders
abstract: The present invention is in the field of pharmacotherapy of cognitive deficits in learning and memory by administering an α-aminoamide, particularly safinamide. Examples of disturbances in cognition that can be treated with compounds of the invention are the ones associated with disorders such as autism, dyslexia, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, schizophrenia, obsessive compulsive disorders, psychosis, bipolar disorders, depression, Tourette's syndrome, Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and disorders of learning in children, adolescents and adults, Age Associated Memory Impairment, Age Associated Cognitive Decline, Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, Down's Syndrome, traumatic brain injury Huntington's Disease, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), HIV, stroke, vascular diseases, Pick's or Creutzfeldt-Jacob diseases, multiple sclerosis (MS), other white matter disorders and drug-induced cognitive worsening.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08741957&OS=08741957&RS=08741957
owner: Newron Pharmaceuticals S.P.A.
number: 08741957
owner_city: Bresso (MI)
owner_country: IT
publication_date: 20070613
---
This is the 371 U.S. national stage of International Application No. PCT EP2007 005197 filed Jun. 13 2007 which claims the benefit of European patent application no. 06012352.8 filed Jun. 15 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to pharmacotherapy of cognitive disorders i.e. deficits in learning and memory by administering an aminoamide particularly safinamide. Examples of disturbances in cognition that can be treated with the compound of the invention are those associated with disorders such as autism dyslexia attention deficit hyperactivity disorder schizophrenia obsessive compulsive disorders psychosis bipolar disorders depression Tourette s syndrome Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI and disorders of learning in children adolescents and adults Age Associated Memory Impairment Age Associated Cognitive Decline Alzheimer s Disease Parkinson s Disease Down s Syndrome traumatic brain injury Huntington s Disease Progressive Supranuclear Palsy PSP HIV stroke vascular diseases Pick s or Creutzfeldt Jacob diseases multiple sclerosis MS other white matter disorders and drug induced cognitive worsening.

Cognitive brain disorders are characterized clinically by progressive loss of memory cognition reasoning executive functioning planning judgment and emotional stability gradually leading to profound mental deterioration.

Neuropsychological cognitive deficits are common in people with functional neuropsychiatric disorders. Among these schizophrenia is a chronic severe and disabling form of psychosis. Scientists have estimated that up to 75 of schizophrenic patients are cognitively impaired. Traditional treatments for schizophrenia are not effective to treat cognitive deficits in schizophrenia when used at high doses. While it has been reported that more recently developed treatments for schizophrenia known as atypical anti psychotics may have some effect on cognitive deficits the effect may not be lasting or not lead to an improvement in daily functioning. There are currently no drugs approved for the treatment of cognitive deficits in schizophrenia.

More in general across several pathological conditions with the increase of medical screening for dementia an increasing number of patients are being identified who do not meet the diagnostic criteria for dementia but nonetheless have significant memory or cognitive impairment defined as Mild Cognitive Impairment.

Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI is a condition characterized by mild recent memory loss without dementia or significant impairment of other cognitive functions to an extent that is beyond that expected for age or educational background. Criteria for diagnosis of MCI are memory complaint abnormal activities of daily living abnormal general cognitive functioning abnormal memory for age not demented.

The number of patients falling in the categories of MCI Age Associated Memory Impairment Age Related Cognitive Decline or similar diagnostic categories is staggering. For example according to the estimates of Barker et al. Br J Psychiatry 1995 November 167 5 642 8 there are more than 16 million people with Age Associated Memory Impairment in the U.S. alone.

An advisory panel to the US Food and Drug Administration ruled on Mar. 13 2001 that MCI a condition separate from dementia in Alzheimer s Disease AD is a valid target for new drug therapies regardless of whether a particular drug also slows the progression to dementia. However so far the drugs that are being used in the treatment of this disease only have mild temporary effects.

A variety of medications including nonsteroidal anti inflammatory drugs hormones especially estrogen vitamins e.g. vitamin E and herbal preparations especially have been advocated as treatments for memory loss. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors labelled for use in Alzheimer s disease are also being tested for MCI. While some of these agents hold promise robust effects from carefully executed well controlled clinical trials are still nonexistent. For all these reasons the unmet medical need in MCI is still very high.

Brain disorders characterized by cognition deficits are also those associated with progressive neuronal degeneration or cell death secondary to trauma infarction hypoxia infection or hydrocephalus and are characterized by memory impairment but also other cognitive deficits with a pattern that lead to the diagnosis of dementia. Diseases associated with cognitive deficits and dementia are Alzheimer s Disease Parkinson s Disease Huntington s Disease HIV vascular diseases Pick s or Creutzfeldt Jacob diseases multiple sclerosis MS Progressive Supranuclear Palsy PSP and other white matter disorders. Among these diseases Alzheimer s Disease represents the fourth most common medical cause of death in the United States. In 2005 Alzheimer s Disease was estimated to affect more than 4 million people in the United States a number expected to increase within the next 20 years. A large number of drugs have been studied for their effect on improving the cognitive and behavioural aspects of Alzheimer s disease. The FDA has approved five drugs to treat Alzheimer s disease but at best these drugs only provide mild relief and do not attack the cause of AD. The five approved drugs for the treatment of AD are tacrine donezepil rivastigmine galantamine and memantine. Unfortunately these drugs cause only limited and time depending benefit on cognitive deficits.

Parkinson s Disease PD is a chronically progressive neurological disease clinically characterized by motor disturbances including rigidity bradykinesia gait disturbances postural instability and tremor which generally occurs during rest but some patients have postural and action tremor components. The neurological hallmarks of PD are degeneration of dopamine neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta which results in a drastic depletion of dopamine in the striatum to which these neurons project. Cognitive impairment is also a characteristic of the disease which occurs even in non demented and early stage PD patients and it is not strictly correlated to the motor symptoms of the disease.

It has been clearly recognised that in PD there are deficits related to attention alertness perception motivation intelligence and finally cognition and memory. These deficits in a large percentage of patients roughly 50 in particular in early PD patients are not extensive and are not severe enough to be classified as dementia. Moreover in a high percentage of these patients the deficits do not progress to dementia. In some individuals cognitive decline can develop in the presence of mild Parkinson disease related cortical pathology and conversely widespread cortical lesions do not necessarily lead to cognitive decline Braak H et al Neurology 64 1404 1410 2005 .

At present the most widely used medication in PD is levodopa which is still considered the golden standard in spite of the severe motor complications that are evident after long term use of the drug. Since the early 1990s Dopamine Agonists DA have gained popularity both as early therapy to delay the use of levodopa and as adjunctive therapy to levodopa when the efficacy of DA alone is not sufficient to control motor impairment of the patients.

Unfortunately pharmacological intervention aimed at curing Parkinson s induced motor impairment by restoring dopaminergic tone not only do not substantially cure cognitive deficits but very often have negative effects on cognition.

Evidences of no effect on cognition or even impairment are reported in the literature with levodopa. This negative findings are described by extensive literature. The following is a non exhaustive list 

Also the effects of Dopamine Agonists DA a widely prescribed class of compounds for treating PD on cognition in Parkinson s patients are often negative.

The effect of pergolide a mixed D1 D2 agonist on cognitive functions was evaluated in early mild Parkinson s Disease Brusa L et al. J Neural Transm. 2005 February 112 2 231 7 . Cognitive assessment was performed after the wash out phase and repeated after eight weeks end of study without showing amelioration of cognitive test scores.

In another cohort of mild PD patients pramipexole a mixed D2 D3 agonist slightly but significantly worsened verbal fluency impaired short term verbal memory and attentional executive functions in comparison to levodopa although not exceeding normal values. Brusa L et al. J Neural Transm. 2003 110 373 380 .

Another dopaminergic drug apomorphine had a negative effect on reaction times without influencing performance accuracy in visual spatial working memory WM Costa A et al. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2003 15 2 55 66 .

These data suggest that dopaminergic agents and in particular levodopa and dopamine agonists whereas have proven efficacy in ameliorating motor function in PD patients have controversial effects on cognition even worsening some specific tasks.

On the other hand a sizeable literature supports the hypothesis that cholinergic drugs may improve cognition in particular in Alzheimer s Disease. More recently Emre M. et al. New England Journal of Medicine 2004 351 2509 2518 report the first large multicentre comparison of a cholinesterase inhibitor rivastigmine in a double blind randomized placebo controlled trial of patients with PD related Dementia PDD . Patients receiving rivastigmine responded better on the two primary outcome measures Alzheimer s Disease Assessment Scale Cognitive Subscale and Clinical Global Impression of Change as well as on all secondary outcome measures including Neuropsychiatric Inventory activities of daily living executive functions and MMSE. The differences were moderate however. More patients in the rivastigmine group 17 dropped out due to adverse events than in the placebo group 8 most commonly due to nausea. Even if objective assessment of parkinsonism did not differ between the groups subjective worsening of tremor was reported more often in the rivastigmine 1.7 than in the placebo arm as expected by a drug acting on the cholinergic system. These data suggest that the above described pharmacological intervention can provide some benefit but this is often obtained at the expenses of severe debilitating side effects such as worsening in tremors. In fact Parkinson s disease tremor usually improves with anticholinergic medications. Anticholinergics include trihexyphenidyl benztropine and procyclidine. However the side effects of anticholinergic therapy such as dry mouth blurry vision urinary difficulty confusion and negative effects on cognition may limit the use of these agents.

All together these data show that cognitive impairment is still an area of high unmet medical need with no effective drugs. The moderate and inconsistent effect observed with some drugs e.g. cholinesterase inhibitors leave space to more effective and safe treatments. In particular in PD where cholinesterase inhibitors cause worsening of tremors and interventions useful at restoring disease related motor impairment such as levodopa or DA often worsen cognitive functions the need of new drugs that ameliorate cognition without worsening the motor disturbancies of the disease is very high.

In accordance to this invention it has been found that aminoamide compounds of the formula I and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts in particular safinamide are effective in treating cognitive disorders that are observed in the above variety of diseases and can be administered orally without the toxic side effects caused for example by anticholinesterase activity associated with compounds such as phenserine rivastigmine donezepil and galanthamine.

 aminoamide compounds of the formula I and in particular safinamide are not cholinesterase inhibitors. Therefore toxic effects such as nausea vomiting dizziness bradychardia increase in tremor such as the one observed with rivastigmine in PD patients Emre M. et al. NEJM 351 2509 2518 2004 are not expected after administration of aminoamide compounds of the formula I and in particular safinamide.

Safinamide is instead a selective MAO B inhibitor devoid of activity on MAO A and glutamate release inhibitor in condition of pathological glutamate overflow. Safinamide is not a glutamate receptor antagonist as it has no affinity for any of the glutamate receptors. Its mechanism of action is described in several publication of which the following is a non exhaustive list 

Biochemical and Electrophysiological Studies on the Mechanism of Action of PNU 151774E a Novel Antiepileptic Compound Salvati P. et al. J. Pharmac. Exp. Ther. 288 1151 1159 March 1999.

Characterization of MAO B inhibitory properties of Safinamide NW 1015 in animals models and healthy volunteers. C. Caccia et al. Abs 862.16 31st Annual Meeting Society for Neuroscience 2001 San Diego Calif. Nov. 10 15.

Neuroprotective effects of safinamide and its methylated analogue in rat cortical neurons. Curatolo L. et al. Poster G 36 Congresso Nazionale SINS Torino 8 11 Settembre 2001.

Safinamide NW 1015 is a novel combined MAO B and glutamate release inhibitor with neuroprotective effects in animal models of Parkinson s Disease. R. Maj et al. Poster n. B91 XXX Congresso Nazionale SIF Genova 30 Maggio 2 Giugno 2001.

It has also been suggested that safinamide might have long term neuroprotective effects in addition to symptomatic effects in neurodegenerative disorders and in particular PD and ischemia. This effect has been demonstrated in animal models F. Vaghi et al 27 th annual meeting Neuroscience New Orleans 1997 Oct. 25 30 abs n 212.9 . However it has been shown Journal of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics 1998 285 397 403 that safinamide per se does not ameliorate cognition in the rat passive avoidance test in normal rats a test in which nootropic agents which are claimed to ameliorate cognition in humans are active.

Clinical data in PD patients have shown that safinamide significantly ameliorated UPDRS scores after 3 month treatment. The improvement is particularly evident when safinamide is associated to a dopamine agonist Stocchi F et al. Neurology 2004 Aug. 24 63 4 746 8 .

We have now unexpectedly discovered that in a six month double blind clinical trial in non demented patients with early PD safinamide associated to a dopamine agonist DA is able not only to significantly ameliorate UPDRS scores which are related to the motor symptoms of the disease as compared to the group treated with the DA alone control group but also to ameliorate cognitive worsening observed in controls and or improve cognition as compared to pretreatment at the check of both three and six months after start of treatment. More in detail what was surprisingly found was that safinamide added to a stable dose of a DA was able of a counteracting the worsening in cognition observed with the DA alone as compared to baseline a worsening that is in line with what described in the literature above quoted b ameliorating the performance of patients in a series of tests as compared to the baseline performance observed before treatment start.

This is a novel finding as previous disclosures have associated compounds of the formula 1 to degenerative diseases and in particular PD and ischemia where the neuroprotectant role of the compounds and safinamide in particular due to their MAO B inhibitory activity and anticonvulsant activity would play a role and cause disease modifying effects. The compounds of the formula 1 claimed in WO 90 14334 were shown to inhibit convulsions and lethality caused by bicuculline and mercaptopropionic acid and inhibit MAO activity. It was already suggested at the time of that disclosure that MAO B inhibitors might have a neuroprotectant effects Strolin Benedetti M and Doster P Biochem. Pharmacol. 1988 38 555 561 .

The mechanism by which safinamide causes a positive effect on cognition observed in the present invention is not elucidated. It is however very unlikely that a neuroprotective effect such as the one described for safinamide in animal models would be measurable in only 12 weeks a relatively too short period of time and neuronal cell death is not reversible. What is expected by a neuroprotectant agent is to possibly slow down disease progression and in long term trials such as two year trials demonstrate that the worsening observed in control patients is attenuated significantly by drug treatment.

So as compared to previous disclosures this effect which becomes apparent in such a short time is completely unexpected.

A wide range of relatively subtle cognitive deficits can be observed in patients with Parkinson s disease PD . Deficits have been recognized in different cognitive domains such as memory visuospatial processing attention concept formation and executive functions.

The similarities of some cognitive deficits to those reported following focal lesions of the prefrontal cortex together with dopamine s role in the modulation of complex circuits linking the basal ganglia with prefrontal cortex have led to the hypothesis that changes in the levels of dopamine stimulation may modify cognitive performance.

However in patients with PD both levodopa and dopamine agonists has been reported to improve impair or not affect frontal cognitive performance and to improve impair or not affect memory functions as above reported.

These data suggest that levodopa and dopamine agonists whereas have proven efficacy in ameliorating motor function in PD patients have controversial effects on cognition even worsening some specific tasks. The reason for these discrepancies might reside on the fact that excessive dopamine receptor stimulation can be detrimental to cognitive function Murphy B L et al PNAS 1996 vol 93 and Ruzicka E et al. J Neurol. Neurosurg. Psychiatry 57 998 1001 1994 . It has been suggested that there might be a critical range of dopaminergic activity for optimal cognitive functioning and that exceeding this range might result in dysregulation of cognition.

The effects of MAO B inhibitors on cognitive functions have been suggested to be mainly related to their neuroprotectant effect but also it has been hypothesized that it might be due to an increase availability of neurotransmitters and in particular dopamine in relevant brain areas. Shortage of dopamine has been in fact suggested to be involved in the pathophysiology of memory impairment in PD patients J Neural Transm. 1994 41 259 266 Trends in Pharmacological Sciences 2005 26 27 35 .

However rasagiline a MAO B inhibitor used in PD therapy was reported not to ameliorate cognition but simply not to worsen it rasagiline 1 mg dose once daily improved symptoms of PD including motor fluctuations without significantly increasing the occurrence of cognitive and behavioural adverse events in early and moderate to advanced PD patients as quoted from re analysis of TEMPO and PRESTO pivotal studies on Agilet rasagiline presented at the Mental Dysfunction in Parkinson s Disease Conference Salzburg Austria 2004.

So again what may be critical is the optimal tuning of different mediators and dopamine in particular selected brain areas. Unexpectedly safinamide ameliorated cognition in association with a dopamine agonist that per se in the present trial caused a worsening of some cognitive functions in line with the above quoted literature.

This cannot be due to its MAO B inhibitory effect. This in fact would naturally cause an increase in dopamine availability and we might be quite sure that this happened considering that in the same trial safinamide ameliorated the motor score UPDRS over the effect of the dopamine agonist and UPDRS is strictly related with the dopaminergic tone. In fact we can suggest that the worsening observed in DA agonist treated patient might be due to an already high level of dopaminergic stimulation in the prefrontal cortex over the optimal level that is suggested to ameliorate cognition. Nevertheless when added to this DA agonist regiment safinamide was able to revert the impairment. This is totally unexpected for a MAO B inhibitor.

In addition also the glutamate release inhibitory effect of safinamide cannot explain the present positive findings on cognitive functions of PD patients.

Glutamate is the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian CNS and mediates neurotransmission across most excitatory synapses. Glutamate stimulates a number of postsynaptic receptors including NMDA and AMPA receptors.

As supported by a large bulk of literature evidence reduction of glutamate receptors activity and in particular NMDA receptors clearly disrupts learning and memory. And in fact NMDA and AMPA receptor agonists not antagonists have been studied for their potential of enhancing cognition Weiser T 2004 in Cognitive enhancing drugs Buccafusco J J editor pp 89 96 Birkhauser Austria .

It is somehow curious therefore that an NMDA receptor antagonist memantine was the first glutamatergic drug to reach the clinical scene for cognition and AD. This example and its peculiarity is specifically mentioned by Youdim M B and Buccafusco J J Trends in Pharmacological sciences 2005 26 27 35 . Memantine is currently approved in US for the treatment of moderate to severe AD. One hypothesis is that this effect can be linked to the neuroprotective action of the drug. Another hypothesis is that glutamate receptors of the NMDA type are over activated in a tonic rather than a phasic manner in AD. This continuous mild activation may lead to neuronal damage and impairment of synaptic plasticity learning . It is likely that under such conditions Mg 2 ions which block NMDA gated channel under normal resting conditions cannot longer do so. One hypothesis is that memantine is a glutamate antagonists with features of improved magnesium as it mimics Mg2 and attenuates this deficit and restores synaptic plasticity by taking over the physiological role of Mg2 Danysz W and Parsons C G. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry 2003 18 Suppl 1 S23 32 Danysz W Parsons C G Mobius H J Stoffler A Quack G. . 2000 2 2 3 85 97 .

If this hypothesis is true it relates the activity of an NMDA antagonist as cognitive enhancer to a specific mechanism of action linked to the Mg2 binding site. This does not generally applies to all NMDA antagonists that as above reported generally negatively affect cognition nor to a compound like safinamide that inhibit glutamate release and do not act via the glutamate receptors.

One drug described to be a glutamate release inhibitor is riluzole. In preclinical testing this compound has been shown to improve cognition for example following experimental brain injury in the rat but its effect was likely mediated by a neuroprotective mechanism. And in fact the compound has been shown to be neuroprotective also in models of cerebral ischemia and PD Benazzouz A et al. Eur. J. of Pharmacol. 1995 284 299 307 J Neurotrauma 1996 13 767 80 .

Riluzole approved for ALS in the US in 1996 is in clinical trials for PD and AD but the rationale of these trials is based on its neuroprotectant effect.

For all these reasons there is not a clear cut relationship between the mechanisms of actions of safinamide and its positive effects on cognition observed in association with a DA that per se caused an impairment on the cognitive function as demonstrated in the present invention. This is particularly true considering that neuroprotection that is the mechanism more likely associated to a positive effect on cognition caused by MAO B inhibitors or the NMDA antagonist memantine or riluzole cannot be advocated due to the short duration of the trial herein described. Nor it can be advocated its possible ehancing effect of dopamine levels in relevant CNS areas due to MAO B inhibition as safinamide was not given in monotherapy but associated to a DA that per se already caused an impairment on cognition likely due to dopaminergic over stimulation.

Finally it is important to mention that memory is represented by several distinct processes and different types of memory are associated with different brain regions. For these reasons many neurotransmitter substances are involved in cognition including acetylcholine noradrenaline dopamine serotonin GABA glutamate histamine peptides and their receptors. These mediators works together but due to modulation of one system on the other sometimes the combined activity on more than one target might be unpredictable. Practical applications of combining agents with different therapeutic targets are not prevalent in the literature.

More specifically there is no example in the literature to our knowledge of compounds with a MAO B inhibitory activity associated to glutamate release inhibitory effect and no examples that such a drug should have a positive effect on cognition.

From the lack of previous demonstration that such association of mechanisms is indeed positive for cognition the present finding is unexpected.

In addition to the beneficial effects on both motor and cognitive aspects of the disease the safety profile of safinamide in combination with the DA was extremely favourable. This represent a further therapeutic advantage of the present invention considering that cholinesterase inhibitors which proved a moderate beneficial effect in ameliorating cognition deficit in PD patients worsen some aspects of motor performance and cause a variety of unwanted side effects. One embodiment of the present invention is that safinamide or more in general a compound of the formula I is useful in preventing or ameliorating the negative effect caused by a dopamine agonist on cognitive performance of a PD patient.

Considering the marked effect observed in association with a DA and considering that all treatments in PD cause an increase of dopaminergic tone one embodiment of the present invention is that safinamide and more in general compounds of the formula I are useful for treating cognitive impairment associated with the use of levodopa and other medicaments used for treating PD.

More in general the present invention provides a rapid and highly effective method superior to existing treatments for treating cognitive disorders by utilizing an aminoamide compound of the general formula I .

It has been found that aminoamide compounds of the formula I and in particular safinamide are able of improving Cognitive Function and Treating Cognitive Impairment in a mammal e.g. human non human primate or rat . Improving cognitive function includes promoting cognitive function affecting impaired cognitive function in the subject so that it more closely resembles the function of an aged matched normal unimpaired subject including affecting states in which cognitive function is reduced compared to a normal subject and preserving cognitive function affecting normal or impaired cognitive function such that it does not decline or does not fall below that observed in the subject upon first presentation or diagnosis e.g. to the extent of expected decline in the absence of treatment . In one embodiment of the invention the mammal has normal cognitive function which is improved. In one embodiment the mammal exhibits cognitive impairment associated with aging. In one embodiment the mammal is a human with cognitive impairment associated with a disease or disorder. In one embodiment the mammal is a human exhibiting cognitive function impairment associated with disorders such as autism dyslexia attention deficit hyperactivity disorder schizophrenia obsessive compulsive disorders psychosis bipolar disorders depression Tourette s syndrome and disorders of learning in children adolescents and adults Age Associated Memory Impairment Age Associated Cognitive Decline Parkinson s Disease Down s Syndrome traumatic brain injury Huntington s Disease Progressive Supranuclear Palsy PSP HIV stroke vascular diseases Pick s or Creutzfeldt Jacob diseases multiple sclerosis MS other white matter disorders and drug induced cognitive worsening. In one embodiment the impairment of cognitive function is caused by or attributed to Alzheimer s disease. In another embodiment the impairment of cognitive function is caused by or attributed to mild cognitive impairment MCI .

Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds of the invention include for example acid addition salts with inorganic acids e.g. nitric hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric and phosphoric acids and the like or organic acids e.g. acetic propionic glycolic lactic oxalic malonic malic tartaric citric succinic benzoic cinnamic mandelic methanesulfonic p toluenesulfonic and salicylic acids and the like.

Some of the compounds of formula I can have asymmetric carbon atoms and therefore can exist either as racemic mixtures or as individual optical isomers enantiomers . Accordingly the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the aminoamide of formula I is also meant to include within its scope all the possible isomers and their mixtures and any pharmaceutically acceptable metabolite bioprecursor and or pro drug i.e. a compound which has a structural formula different from the one of the the aminoamide of formula I and yet is directly or indirectly converted in vivo into a compound having formula I upon administration to a mammal particularly a human being.

Preferred compounds of formula I are those wherein A is a group chosen from CH CH CH S and CH O wherein n is an integer from 1 to 5 

Preferred compounds of formula I which can be used as monotherapy or in combination with other compounds of formula I in an effective amount for treating one or more cognitive disorder in a patient are S 2 4 2 fluorobenzyloxy benzylamino propanamide or S 2 4 3 fluorobenzyloxy benzylamino propanamide.

Compounds of formula I are known from WO90 14334 WO94 22808 WO97 05102 WO 97 05111 WO 99 35123 and WO99 035125 as compounds active on the central nervous system and useful as anti epileptic anti Parkinson neuroprotective antidepressant and antispastic hypnotic agents see also Pevarello P. et al. 1998 J. Med. Chemistry 41 579 590 .

In one embodiment the patient being treated is a mammal including humans in need of alleviation or inhibition of symptoms of cognitive disorders.

Specific examples of cognitive disorders are autism dyslexia attention deficit hyperactivity disorder anxiety schizophrenia obsessive compulsive disorders psychosis bipolar disorders Tourette s syndrome Mild Cognitive Impairment MCI and disorders of learning in children adolescents and adults Age Associated Memory Impairment Age Associated Cognitive Decline Down s Syndrome HIV vascular diseases.

Particularly the mammal in need of the above mentioned treatment is administered a dose of an aminoamide of formula I as above defined which ranges from about 0.3 to about 100 mg kg of body weight per day. Treatment as used herein includes any care by procedures or applications to a mammal and particularly a human that are intended to a prevent the disease or disorder from occurring in a subject that may be predisposed to the disease disorder but has not yet been diagnosed with having it b inhibiting the disease disorder or condition i.e. arresting its development c relieving the disease disorder or condition i.e. causing regression of the disease disorder or condition.

In another aspect the invention includes an aminoamide of formula I administered as the active agent of a pharmaceutically acceptable composition having activity in the treatment of cognitive disorders which can be prepared by conventional procedures for instance by mixing the active agent with a pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutically inert organic and or inorganic carrier or excipient materials.

In one embodiment of the invention the mammal has cognitive function which is further deteriorated by the administration of a drug used to treat PD. In that case the compound is given in combination with such agent. Combination therapy or co therapy includes the administration of an aminoamide compound of formula I of the invention and at least a second agent for example 

One embodiment of the present invention is the association of the compound of the formula I and in particular safinamide with anticholinergic agents that are used in PD for treating tremors. In fact Parkinson s disease tremor usually improves with anticholinergic medications. Anticholinergics include trihexyphenidyl benztropine and procyclidine. However the side effects of anticholinergic therapy are numerous and include negative effects on cognitive functions.

The compounds of the present invention are also useful in association with other drugs such as cholinesterase inhibitors and or acetylcholine modulators but not limited to that are useful in improving cognitive function in pathological conditions such as Alzheimer s Disease PD and all conditions above mentioned.

Administration of these therapeutic agents in combination typically is carried out over a defined time period usually minutes hours days or weeks depending upon the combination selected . Combination therapy may be but generally is not intended to encompass the administration of two or more of these therapeutic agents as part of separate monotherapy regimens that incidentally and arbitrarily result in the combinations contemplated by the present invention. Combination therapy is intended to embrace administration of these therapeutic agents in a sequential manner or simultaneously. Simultaneous administration can be accomplished for example by administering to the subject a single capsule having a fixed ratio of each therapeutic agent or in multiple single capsules for each of the therapeutic agents. Sequential or substantially simultaneous administration of each therapeutic agent can be effected by any appropriate route including but not limited to oral routes intravenous routes intramuscular routes and direct absorption through mucous membrane tissues. The therapeutic agents can be administered by the same route or by different routes. For example a first therapeutic agent of the combination selected may be administered by intravenous injection while the other therapeutic agents of the combination may be administered orally.

Alternatively for example all therapeutic agents may be administered orally or all therapeutic agents may be administered by intravenous injection. The sequence in which the therapeutic agents are administered is not narrowly critical. Combination therapy also can embrace the administration of the therapeutic agents as described above in further combination with other biologically active ingredients and non drug therapies e.g. surgery or radiation treatment . Where the combination therapy further comprises a non drug treatment the non drug treatment may be conducted at any suitable time so long as a beneficial effect from the combination of the therapeutic agents and non drug treatment is achieved.

The aminoamide compositions of the invention can be administered in a variety of dosage forms e.g. orally in the form of tablets troches capsules sugar or film coated tablets liquid solutions emulsions or suspensions rectally in the form of suppositories parenterally e.g. by intramuscular or intravenous injection or infusion and transdermally in the form of a patch ointment emulsion lotion solution gel cream aerosol and nasal spray.

Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable therapeutically inert organic and or inorganic carrier or excipient materials useful in the preparation of such composition include for example water gelatin gum arabic lactose starch cellulose magnesium stearate talc vegetable oils cyclodextrins polyalkyleneglycols and the like. The aminoamide compositions of formula I can be sterilized and may contain further components well known to those skilled in the art such as for example preservatives stabilizers wetting or emulsifying agents e.g. paraffin oil mannide monooleate salts to adjust osmotic pressure buffers and the like.

Additionally the solid oral forms can contain together with the active agent diluents e.g. lactose dextrose saccharose cellulose corn starch or potato starch lubricants e.g. silica talc stearic acid magnesium or calcium stearate and or polyethylene glycols binding agents e.g. starches arabic gums gelatin methylcellulose carboxymethylcellulose or polyvinyl pyrrolidone disaggregating agents e.g. a starch alginic acid alginates or sodium starch glycolate effervescing mixtures dyestuffs sweeteners wetting agents such as lecithin polysorbates laurylsulphates and in general non toxic and pharmacologically inactive substances used in pharmaceutical formulations. The pharmaceutical preparations may be manufactured in any known manner for example by means of mixing granulating tabletting sugar coating or film coating processes.

The oral formulations comprise sustained release formulations which can be prepared in a conventional manner for instance by applying an enteric coating to tablets and granules.

The liquid dispersion for oral administration may be e.g. syrups emulsions and suspension. The syrups may further contain as a carrier for example saccharose or saccharose with glycerine and or mannitol and or sorbitol.

Suspensions and emulsions may contain as a carrier for example a natural gum agar sodium alginate pectin methylcellulose carboxymethyl cellulose or polyvinyl alcohol. The suspensions or solutions for intramuscular injections may contain together with the active compound a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier e.g. sterile water olive oil ethyl oleate glycols e.g. propylene glycol and if desired a suitable amount of lidocaine hydrochloride. The solutions for intravenous injections or infusion may contain as a carrier for example sterile water or preferably they may be in the form of sterile aqueous or isotonic saline solutions.

The suppositories may contain together with the active agent a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier e.g. cocoa butter polyethylene glycol a polyoxyethylene sorbitan fatty acid ester surfactant or lecithin.

Compositions including aminoamides of formula I are generally in the form of a dose unit containing for example 20 to 7000 mg of active ingredient per unit dosage form. Suitable treatment is given 1 or 2 or 3 times daily depending upon clearance rate. Accordingly the desired dose may be presented in a single dose or as divided doses administered at appropriate intervals for example two to four or more sub doses per day.

The pharmaceutical compositions including an aminoamide of formula I can contain per dosage unit e.g. capsule tablet powder injection teaspoonful suppository and the like from about 20 to 7000 mg of the active agent.

Optimal therapeutically effective doses to be administered may be readily determined by those skilled in the art and will vary basically with the strength of the preparation with the mode of administration and with the advancement of the pathological condition or the specific memory or cognition disorder treated. In addition factors associated with the particular subject being treated including subject age weight diet and time of administration will result in the need to adjust the dose to an appropriate therapeutically effective level.

The advantages derived from the uses and the methods of the invention as above defined are many and include the possibility to treat basically all types of cognitive disorders symptoms with a surprisingly favourable profile of safety.

Cogtest Computerized Cognitive Test Battery for Clinical Trials is designed to provide with the highest quality computerised cognitive tests for use in clinical trials. All cognitive tests in the Cogtest battery have been developed by academic neuropsychologists and clinical trials specialists. This ensures that the most recent developments in cognitive neuroscience including neurophysiological functioning neuroimaging and pharmacogenic evidence are incorporated into the Cogtest library of procedures and into pharmaceutical clinical trials.

The Cogtest PD battery has been prepared based on a review of the available tests in the Cogtest library and selection of those tests that would most usefully comprise a battery suitable for Parkinson s Disease. However the same tasks are used in other pathological conditions for testing the two main domains of cognition reaction time and power.

The battery takes from 20 30 minutes to administer and is applicable across different cultures and countries. The following tests were included in the battery 

The Auditory Number Sequencing task is a test of working memory and executive function. The participant will be presented with clusters of numbers e.g. 936 of increasing length from 2 digits to a maximum of 8 digits . They will be asked to tell the tester the numbers in order from lowest to highest. This task has been adapted from the original Cooper Digit Ordering Task Cooper J A et al. 1991 Brain 114 2095 2122 which has been shown to be sensitive to pharmacological interventions for example in PD patients Cooper J A et al. 1992 Brain 115 1701 1725 Cooper J A et al. 1993 Neuropsychologia 31 933 949 Gabrieli J D E et al. 1996 Neuropsychology 10 322 332 Hoppe C et al. 2000 . The Clinical Neuropsychologist 14 38 55 

The overall goal of the task is to determine how accurately subjects recall the spatial locations of briefly presented visual targets. The task involves showing the targets at various positions on a display device and having subjects touch the screen at the location where they recall the target had appeared. After instructions there are 2 conditions 1 Direct Touching of the targets while they are still on the screen 2 Delay condition where there is a delay between target presentation and the opportunity to respond with equal numbers of trials randomized involving either 2 second or 12 second delay between target presentation and the opportunity to respond. During the delay between presentation and recall a number of distracters of variable location appear that need to be actively touched by the subject. The distracter condition helps prevent both the subject s visual fixation location and hand position from remaining near the target.

This test is similar to the paper and pencil cancellation tests or the cross out subtest of the WAIS III where subjects are required to crossout target stimuli embedded among distracters. In this computerized test the participant touches the target stimuli shapes directly on the touch screen. An added feature of this test is that the subject is not told in advance which of the stimuli is the target . Instead the subject must learn which is the correct target by choosing one of the stimuli and observing feedback that indicates whether the choice was right or wrong. This feature is similar to that used in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test WCST where the correct rule is learned by subjects only from examiner feedback. The variables measured are Total Experiment Time from the end of the Get ready screen to the end of the last response in msec Total Correct responses Total Perseverative Errors erroneous pressing of the shape that was the target of the last set but is not for this set Strategic efficiency variable the cumulative distance of territory transversed i.e. between the location of correct presses on screen for each set according to literature Weintraub S. Mesulam M. M. 1987 . Archives of Neurology 44 621 625 .

The tapping speed test assesses simple motor speed and manual dexterity. The Cogtest version is similar to the Finger Tapping Test or Finger Oscillation Test of the Halstead Reitan Neuropsychological Battery which has been extensively used in many neuropsychological studies and is sensitive to the motor effects of antipsychotics and to the effects of many neurological illnesses including cerebrovascular and Parkinson s diseases in which it shows good sensitivity to lateralized brain dysfunction. In addition to capturing the total number of taps with the index finger of each hand it also captures the latency to each and every response generating an index of the variance in tapping speed.

The summary variables are Mean Tap Rate per trial Right hand the mean inter tap interval in msec Standard Deviation Tap Rate over all trials Right hand the mean inter tap interval in msec Total taps Right hand Mean Tap Rate per trial Left hand the mean inter tap interval in msec Standard Deviation Tap Rate over all trials Left hand the mean inter tap interval in msec Total taps Left hand according to literature Reitan R. M. 1979 Manual for administration of neuropsychological test batteries for adults and children. Tucson Ariz. Reitan Neuropsychology Laboratories Inc. Reitan R. M. Wolfson D. 1985 The Halstead Reitan Neuropsychological Test Battery Theory and clinical interpretation. Tucson Neuropsychology .

The Tapping Speed test has been included for two reasons. First there is a need to incorporate a measure of performance that can serve as a covariate by which motor effect can be partialed out from cognitive effects. Second the inclusion of Tapping Speed fulfils the recommendation made in the CPMP EWP s guidance that timed performance tasks be included as secondary outcome measures. Drug effects on tapping speed would in and of themselves provide useful evidence of drug efficacy. Such a task perhaps also has the propensity to serve as a laboratory model of bradykinesia.

The Reaction Time test is a classic test used to assess psychomotor speed. The appearance of the stimulus is completely visual unlike Set Shifting Test where an auditory tone is also heard and occurs after a random delay from the presentation of a crosshair centred both horizontally and vertically on the screen that is used to centre the participants eyes prior to the onset of the stimulus. There are two different phases to this test namely the practice phase and the main trials phase. The practice phase enables the participant to become familiar with the test and to reach a stable baseline before advancing to the main trials. 24 stimuli are presented and the participant needs to achieve a criterion of at least 20 correct in order to advance. Feedback is provided throughout the course of this phase. The participant has three such attempts to pass this phase otherwise the test advances to the end screen and then the test quits. If the practice criterion is achieved then the main trials are presented. Two sets of 50 trials are presented in the same manner which allows the participant a brief rest midway through the test session. Response is by pressing spacebar. The summary Variables are How many times the practice session is done Number of early responses Number of trials in which no response occurred Number of the trials completed Number of trials completed for the right Total number of correct answers Mean of correct reaction times Mean of incorrect reaction times Standard deviation of the correct reaction times.

The Reaction Time test is a classic test used to assess psychomotor speed and this test in particular measures choice reaction time. In this test participants are instructed to respond by pressing keys on the left or the right hand side of the keyboard corresponding to the side of the screen on which a red or green circle the stimulus appears. The appearance of the stimulus is completely visual unlike Set Shifting Test where an auditory tone is also heard and occurs after a random delay from the presentation of a crosshair centred both horizontally and vertically on the screen that is used to centre the participants eyes prior to the onset of the stimulus. There are two different phases to this test namely the practice phase and the main trials phase. The practice phase enables the participant to become familiar with the test and to reach a stable baseline before advancing to the main trials. 20 stimuli are presented randomly to the left or the right of the screen and the participant needs to achieve a criterion of at least 16 out of 20 in order to advance. Feedback is provided throughout the course of this phase. The participant has three such attempts to pass this phase otherwise the test advances to the end screen and then the test quits. If the practice criterion is achieved then the main trials are presented. 100 trials are presented in the same manner i.e. stimuli appear randomly to the left or the right of the crosshairs after a random pause varying between 750 ms and 1500 ms. There are no cut off criteria and no feedback offered during this phase of the test. The subject should place his right index finger on the red key which will replace the key of a British keyboard. He she should place his left index finger on the green key which will replace the z key of a British keyboard. Response is by pressing either key corresponding to which side of the screen the circle appears. The examiner moves the test by pressing the left button of the mouse.

A double blind Phase III study placebo controlled parallel group randomized multinational was conducted comparing 2 oral doses of Safinamide versus placebo. The placebo group was constituted by patients treated with a stable dose of a dopamine agonist. The dopamine agonist could have been any of the ones used in clinical practice according to clinical procedures in the different countries. 269 patients 90 per arm were enrolled and treated for six months. Primary efficacy variable was UPDRS III. All the randomized patients were tested for cognitive impairment with Cogtest at Screening Baseline week 12 and week 24 or early discontinuation .

Baseline data revealed significant impairment across cognitive domains for the entire sample compared to Cogtest Healthy Volunteer Sample. Executive function and the non verbal working memory showing most impairment.

The control group treated with the DA alone showed deterioration over time in line with what expected by this kind of treatment. Both groups treated with low and high dose of safinamide showed significant improvement from baseline for several cognitive variables at three and six months evaluation times. This effect was most marked for executive function reasoning and problem solving .

As explicative example of the effect of safinamide data in the Strategic Target Detection test showed a significant improvement in the observed score Z score in both treated groups low and high dose of safinamide from baseline to both three and six months.

