---

title: Height adjustable armrest
abstract: A vertically adjustable armrest includes a tubular support constructed for attachment to a chair, an armrest assembly telescopingly positioned in the tubular support, the armrest assembly including a sleeve and a post, the sleeve including an opening adapted to receive an operative member on one side, and the post including positional detents extending down the length of a first vertical surface. The height adjustment mechanism is slidably received in the armrest assembly and includes an actuator rod having an angled ramp, an inclined surface, and a pair of angled surfaces, a locking member having teeth which are biased to selectively mate with the post detents, an inclined surface, and at least one pair of lateral followers. The actuator rod operatively engages the locking member with the inclined wedge mateably engaged with the inclined surface and the angled surfaces slideably engaged with the lateral followers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07841665&OS=07841665&RS=07841665
owner: Steelcase Inc.
number: 07841665
owner_city: Grand Rapids
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070601
---
This application is related to co assigned application Ser. No. 11 757 169 filed Jun. 1 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 604 298 which issued on Oct. 20 2009 on even date herewith entitled CHAIR BACK ATTACHMENT AND METHOD OF ASSEMBLY and also related to co assigned application Ser. No. 11 757 138 filed Jun. 1 2007 on even date herewith entitled SEATING UNIT WITH ADJUSTABLE LUMBAR DEVICE the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Adjustable armrests allow users to comfortably support their forearms while working. This can be particularly important to people working in an office environment where they may stay seated for long periods of time. In an attempt to adapt a chair armrest to a particular user and to a task involved various adjustment mechanisms have been provided. However in an effort to make highly adjustable armrests more comfortable and secure complicated latching and securing mechanisms are added. Unfortunately more complicated mechanisms can be difficult for a user to operate. Also multi part mechanisms cart lead to quality problems during manufacture warranty problems in service and additional manufacturing expense.

A need exists for a chair and an armrest assembly which is adapted for vertical height adjustment which is relatively easily manufactured which is reliable In operation and which provides a wide variety of adjustable positions for the user.

In one aspect of the present invention an armrest construction for chairs includes a tubular support constructed for attachment to a chair an armrest assembly telescopingly positioned in the tubular support and a height adjustment mechanism slidably received in the armrest assembly. The armrest assembly includes a sleeve and a post. The sleeve includes an opening adapted to receive an operative member on one side. The post includes detents extending down the length of a first vertical surface. The height adjustment mechanism includes an actuator rod an operative member a locking member and a resilient member. The actuator rod includes an angled ramp an inclined surface and a pair of angled surfaces and the locking member includes teeth an inclined surface and a pair of lateral followers. The actuator rod operatively engages the locking member with the inclined wedge mateably engaged with the inclined surface and the angled surfaces slideably engaged with the lateral followers.

In another aspect of the present invention an armrest construction for chairs includes a tubular support having a first arm constructed for attachment to a chair and a second arm which extends upward from the first arm and further includes a groove. The armrest also includes an armrest assembly telescopingly positioned in the tubular support where the armrest assembly includes a sleeve and a post. The sleeve includes an opening adapted for receiving an operative member on a first side of the sleeve and an aperture on a second side of the sleeve. The post includes detents extending down the length of a first vertical surface which covers the aperture on the second side of the sleeve. The armrest also includes a height adjustment mechanism which is slidably received in the armrest assembly the height adjustment mechanism including an actuator rod an operative member a locking member and a resilient member. The actuator rod includes an angled ramp an inclined surface and a pair of angled surfaces. The locking member includes teeth which selectively mateably engage the post detents an inclined surface and at least one pair of lateral followers. The actuator rod operatively engages the locking member with the inclined wedge mateably engaged with the inclined surface and the angled surfaces slideably engaged with the lateral followers.

In another aspect of the present invention a method of vertically adjusting an armrest includes providing an armrest which includes a tubular support including a groove which is constructed for attachment to a chair an armrest assembly telescopingly positioned in the tubular support and a height adjustment mechanism slidably received in the armrest assembly. The armrest assembly includes a sleeve having an opening adapted for receiving an operative member an aperture and a post. The post includes detents extending down the length of a first vertical surface. The height adjustment mechanism includes an actuator rod including an angled ramp an inclined wedge and a pair of angled surfaces. The height adjustment mechanism also includes a resilient member an operative member and a locking member including teeth an inclined surface and two pairs of lateral followers. The teeth of the locking member extend through the aperture and selectively mate with the detents. The actuator rod is positioned over the locking member with the inclined wedge mateably engaged with the inclined surface and the angled surfaces mateably engaged with the lateral followers. The operative member is lifted upward such that the resilient member compresses which causes the angled surfaces to push on the lateral followers and the teeth to withdraw the locking member from locking engagement with the detents. The armrest can then be adjusted to a desired position. Releasing the operative member such that the resilient member decompresses causes the inclined wedge to slide into mateable engagement with the inclined surface and the teeth to extend through the aperture and mate with the detents.

These and other features advantages and objects of the present invention will be further understood and appreciated by hose skilled in the art by reference to the following specification claims and appended drawings.

Referring to a chair embodying the present invention includes a base a lower back frame a seat and a back construction . The base includes a control housing with a fixed side support structure which extends laterally and upwardly from either side of the control housing. An armrest is attached to each side of the support structure.

An armrest embodying the present invention is shown in and includes a tubular support constructed for attachment to a chair an armrest assembly telescopingly positioned in the tubular support and a height adjustment mechanism slidably received in the armrest assembly. A plate is attached to the top of the armrest assembly and an arm cap is attached to the plate. In an alternative embodiment a pivot slide member may be attached to the plate and the arm cap attached to the pivot slide member. The pivot slide member is similar to that disclosed in co assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 971 484 filed Dec. 3 1997 entitled ADJUSTABLE ARMREST FOR CHAIRS the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for its teachings.

Referring to the tubular support includes an L shaped structural member having a horizontal first arm section adapted for connection to the fixed side support structures and a vertically extending second arm section . The second arm section includes an upper opening for telescopingly receiving the armrest assembly a lower opening and a groove including a fastening aperture along one vertical side. When the armrest assembly is inserted into the second arm section the lower portion of a sleeve extends through the lower opening and is visible. As the armrest assembly is vertically adjusted upward the sleeve becomes less visible. The groove and the lower opening are on opposite sides of the second arm section .

The armrest assembly is telescopingly received in the tubular support and includes a sleeve a post and may also include a bearing . The sleeve includes a first side and a second side . The first side includes an aperture. near the lower end of the first side. Near the top of the first side is an opening which is adapted to receive an operative member of an actuator rod . The sleeve flares out at the top to provide an armrest support . The second side of the sleeve includes a rectangular aperture at the lower end of the second side. On either side of the aperture are vertical ribs . Referring to the post is rectangular with a lip on its top end and a tab on the bottom end. The post also includes a first vertical surface and a second vertical surface . The first vertical surface includes a series of positional detents and a fastening aperture . The fastening aperture goes completely through the post to the second vertical surface . On either side of the positional detents are vertical grooves which mateably receive the vertical ribs on the sleeve to prevent complete removal of the armrest assembly from the tubular support . The second vertical surface includes ridges . The bearing provides a bearing surface and includes two collars which are connected to a vertical strip at their midpoints. Although show the collars as angled relative to each other in an alternative embodiment the collars are parallel relative to each other. The ends of the collars dare outwardly to define a space

The post is mateably received in the groove of the second arm section with the second vertical surface abutting the second arm section. A fastening means is inserted through fastening aperture and into fastening aperture to secure the post in the groove . Alternatively it is contemplated that the post is not a separate piece fastened in the groove but rather molded into the second arm section . When the sleeve is inserted into the second arm section the first vertical surface of the post abuts the second side of the sleeve. Also the detents on the first vertical surface of the post cover the aperture on the second side of the sleeve . The vertical ribs on the second side of the sleeve mate with the vertical grooves of the post so that the positional detents remain positioned over the aperture when the sleeve is adjusted vertically. The bearing is positioned on the sleeve with the vertical strip abutting the first side of the sleeve allowing the collars to wrap around the sleeve. The post fits between the collar ends in the space The bearing is stationary within the second arm section and functions to limit horizontal movement of the sleeve within the tubular support.

As shown in the height adjustable mechanism includes an actuator rod including an operative member a locking member and a spring . At the top of the actuator rod is an operative member which is generally perpendicular to an elongated portion of the actuator rod . As shown the operative member is a lever however it is contemplated that a button or tab could be used. Attached to the operative member is a flange . On the other side of the flange is a ledge having a protrusion . When the height adjustable mechanism is slidably engaged with the armrest assembly the actuator rod is positioned inside the sleeve with the operative member positioned through aperture . One end of the spring is placed over the protrusion with the opposite end of the spring placed over a protrusion on the underside of the plate . Referring to and at the bottom of the actuator rod are two angled ramps which resemble hooks. The angled ramps prevent the locking member from falling to the bottom of the sleeve . Above each angled ramp is at least one angled surface and preferably a pair of angled surfaces . Between the pair of angled surfaces is an inclined wedge .

As best seen in the locking member includes teeth that selectively mateably engage the detents on the post . The locking member also includes an inclined surface that mates with the inclined wedge . The locking member also includes at least one pair and preferably two pairs of lateral followers which releasably mateably engage the two pairs of angled surfaces .

The height adjustable mechanism is slidably engaged within the sleeve . When in a locked position the locking member of the height adjustable mechanism is positioned such that the teeth of the locking member extend through aperture of the sleeve and selectively mate with the detents of the post . The actuator rod is positioned over the locking member with the inclined wedge mateably engaged with the inclined surface and the angled surfaces releasably mateably engaged with the lateral followers . and A .

To vertically adjust the height of the armrest the operative member is lifted upward which in turn compresses the spring . When the spring compresses the angled surfaces of the actuator rod lift upward and push on the lateral followers which causes the teeth to withdraw into the sleeve thereby removing the locking member from locking engagement with the detents . Once the locking member is disengaged from the detents the armrest can be vertically adjusted upward or downward to a desired height.

To reengage the locking member and relock the armrest in a selected position the operative member is released thereby decompressing the spring at the top of the actuator rod . Decompression of the spring causes the inclined wedge to slide into mateable engagement with the inclined surface . A and A . As the inclined wedge and inclined surface are mateably engaged the teeth of the locking member again extend through the aperture and selectively mate with the detents of the post .

In the foregoing description it will be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art that modifications may be made to the invention without departing from the concepts disclosed herein. Such modifications are to be considered as included in the following claims unless these claims by their language expressly state otherwise.

