---

title: Use of ion implantation in chemical etching
abstract: A method for controlling chemical dry etching to improve smoothness of an etched surface is disclosed. Ions are implanted into a surface to form a volatilizable compound at a temperature low enough to avoid, reduce, or eliminate formation of three-dimensional structures of the volatilizable compound that might create the roughness at an etched surface of the volatilizable compound. The ions are applied in a sufficient energy to penetrate to a predetermined depth of material that is to be removed from the surface in an etching cycle, and in a sufficient dosage to achieve full formation of the volatilizable compound. The surface of the volatilizable compound is exposed to a gas composition for a time duration sufficient to completely etch the volatilizable compound.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08008207&OS=08008207&RS=08008207
owner: KLA-Tencor Technologies Corporation
number: 08008207
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070523
---
This application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 622 625 which was filed on Jan. 12 2007 the entire disclosure of which are incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 622 625 claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60 758 818 filed Jan. 12 2006 60 829 636 60 829 643 60 829 659 filed Oct. 16 2006. This application claims the benefit of priority of provisional applications 60 758 818 60 829 636 60 829 643 60 829 659 the disclosures of all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This application is also continuation in part of and claims the benefit of priority of U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 622 605 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 879 730 11 622 758 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 709 792 11 622 793 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 945 086 and International Application PCT US2007 060503 all filed Jan. 12 2007 the disclosures of all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support during an effort supported by Government Technology Investment agreement number W911NF 04 3 0001 awarded by the U.S. Army Research Laboratory ARL . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention generally relates to semiconductor fabrication and more particularly to ion implantation in the chemical etching of copper.

Recent technical advances have indicated that it is desirable to form metallized microelectronic components and interconnects from copper rather than the more traditional aluminum. Copper metallization structures are preferred to the more conventional aluminum structures because the resistivity of copper is significantly lower than that of aluminum. Consequently copper metal components can be made smaller than aluminum components and will require less energy to pass electricity through them which leads to better processor performance.

Chemical dry etching of copper can be done by a two step chemical reaction. First copper is oxidized to form copper oxide. Next the copper oxide is etched away by reacting with hexafluoroacetylacetone hfacH gas to form a volatile product. This two step chemical reaction is described e.g. by A. Jain T. T. Kodas and M. J. Hampden Smith in Thin Solid Films Vol. 269 pp 51 56 1995 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Oxidation of copper is usually done by exposing the copper to oxygen gas or species from an oxygen plasma at elevated temperature e.g. about 150 C. 300 C. At these temperatures three dimensional oxide structures are formed which are determined by the thermodynamics of the oxidation reaction. The three dimensional structures cause the copper oxide layer to be non uniform. The morphology of the etched copper surface is determined by the morphology of the oxide copper metal interface which is roughened by the formation of these three dimensional structures.

Although the following detailed description contains many specific details for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the exemplary embodiments of the invention described below are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention.

The ions are selected according to the desired chemistry of a volatilizable compound to be formed as a result of the ion implantation into the non volatilizable material. As used herein a non volatilizable material is one that does not readily form volatile products in a single step chemical reaction. As used herein a volatilizable compound is one that can form volatile products upon reaction with an appropriate reagent. Examples of suitable ions that may be used to form volatilizable compounds from non volatilizable materials include chlorine ions fluorine ions bromine ions iodine ions or oxygen ions. By way of example copper may be regarded as a non volatilizable material and the selected ions may be oxygen ions i.e. O or O for the formation of volatilizable copper oxide or fluorine ions i.e. F or F for the formation of volatilizable copper fluoride.

At the ions are implanted on the surface to form the volatilizable compound at a temperature low enough to avoid the thermodynamic of thermal reaction to avoid reduce or eliminate the formation of three dimensional structures of the volatilizable compound that might create the roughness at the etched surface of the volatilizable compound as described above. By way of example the ion implantation may be performed with the wafer at a sufficiently low temperature so that the growth of 3 dimensional oxide structures is insignificant. For example the wafer temperature may be at or below room temperature.

The depth to which the volatilizable compound is formed depends on the depth to which the ions are implanted into the non volatilizable material. The averaged implantation depth is defined as the range of the ion and is determined by the ion energy and ions incidence angle. The ion penetration depth is typically largest at normal incidence 90 degree with respect to the plane of the surface and is smaller at non normal incidence e.g. using 15 degree with respect to the plane of the surface for glancing angle incidence. The usable incident angle may range between these two limits depending on specific applications.

Silicon oxide formation by oxygen ion implantation is also the basis of the separation by implantation of oxygen SIMOX process for silicon on insulation SOI wafer fabrication. The density and range of the oxygen ion are primarily determined by the ion implantation conditions. A compilation of the average range and straggling of O in copper as a function of ion energy may be determined by a Stopping and Range of Ion in Matter SRIM simulation. As an example is a plot of implantation depth from the simulation vs. ion energy when oxygen ions are implanted into the copper surface for copper oxidation at normal incidence. The corresponding results for O for a particular energy may be estimated from the O values at double the ion energy. As shown in the range can be limited to less than 2 nm if the ion implantation energy is kept below about 1 keV. In practice the copper layer may gradually convert to copper oxide during the implantation. In addition there may be sputtering of the surface of the copper layer during the ion implantation. The range of the ion implantation may vary due to these factors.

In this example copper etching may proceed by two mechanisms. The first mechanism involves the sputtering of the copper surface atoms by the oxygen ions during ion implantation. The second mechanism is the removal of the oxidized copper by the hfacH reaction. Qualitatively higher ion energy increases the range of the ions. Therefore the thickness of copper that is finally removed increases with increasing ion energy. For example at normal incidence about 4 nm of copper may be removed with 300 eV O ion implantation while over 50 nm of copper may be removed with 25 kV of O ion implantation. Deeper copper etch can be achieved by repeating the ion implantation etching cycle.

Ideally the ions are applied in a sufficient dosage to achieve full formation of the volatilizable compound in this copper layer. For example one often wants to oxidize copper all the way to cupric oxide CuO for which the hfacH etching process is 100 efficient. However the depth of penetration of the ions at a particular energy has a distribution due to the scattering of the ions by the atoms in the solid. Such scattering often changes the direction of an ion s trajectory producing a phenomenon called ion straggling. By using a higher ion dose it is possible to push the formation of CuO to a larger depth. The depth of oxide formation and therefore the thickness of copper etched may therefore be controlled by the ion dose. For example experiments have shown that with 25 kV of O about 25 nm of copper can be etched with 5.5 10 cmof dose while about 56 nm of copper can be removed with 1.1 10 cmof total dose.

Therefore both ion energy and ion dose may be used to control the depth of copper etching. The optimum condition will probably be determined empirically with other considerations such as the surface roughness of the etched surface.

Empirically it was found that the combination of oxygen ion implantation and the hfacH removal of the oxide contributed about a few nm to the surface roughness. Qualitative the roughness tends to increase with the ion energy. There can be several possible causes of the increase in the surface roughness. One factor is ion straggling. Ion straggling may introduce nonuniformity in oxidation due to statistical fluctuations. A second factor is the swelling of the material during ion implantation. The build up of stress due to the swelling may present non uniformity and hence may roughen the surface. A third possible factor is ion sputtering which is known to cause surface roughness. In experiments structures 50 nm deep have been formed in copper with 5 nm root mean square rms bottom uniformity using a combined oxygen ion implantation and hfacH etching technique. Experiments were performed using O ions with an ion energy of about 25 keV and an ion dose of about 10ions cm. Only one etching cycle was used. This increase in surface roughness may be address by glancing incidence.

Each copper etching cycle may comprise an ion implantation step followed by hfacH etching of the volatilizable compound. To increase the rate of copper etching per etch cycle one may use high ion implantation energy even up to 100 keV as in the SIMOX separation by implantation of oxygen process and high ion doses. To overcome the increased surface roughness after these processes one may use a low energy glancing angle ion implantation followed by hfacH etching of the oxide to improve the surface smoothness.

To optimize the uniformity of the ion implantation the copper surface is rotated in a horizontal plane while the ions are implanted into the surface of the surface so that the ions are implanted from all sides. The idea is similar to the use of glancing ion beam for surface smoothing such as that in Zalar rotation during sputtering for depth profiling. The dose of ions per unit area may be kept as uniform as possible by using a more complex motion e.g. planetary motion that is commonly used in thin film deposition. Such planetary motion may involve both rotation about a wafer axis and orbital motion about another axis.

The volatilizable compound formed as a result of ion implantation is then exposed to a gas composition at appropriate temperature and pressure for a time duration sufficient to completely etch the volatilizable compound as indicated in . As described above hexafluoroacetylacetone hfacH may be used for etching copper oxide at a temperature of about 250 C. and a pressure of about 1 Torr for about 2 minutes. Alternatively the gas composition could contain one or more gaseous components that etch the volatilizable compound upon activation by interaction with a beam of electrons. In this situation a beam of electrons is directed toward the volatilizable compound in the vicinity of the etching gas composition. An interaction between the electron beam and the gas composition etches the volatilizable compound exposed to both the gas composition and the electron beam. This technique is so called Electron Beam Activated Chemical Etch eBACE which is described in prior commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 622 625 which was incorporated by reference.

The method as described in which includes the ion implantation and gas composition etching cycle may be repeated until a desired thickness of the material has been removed from the surface. Since ion implantation is preferably done at low temperatures while the etching reaction typically happens at elevated temperature the temperature cycling time may become a bottleneck for the net etch rate. One possible scheme to address this bottleneck is to use active cooling of the wafer to maintain a low temperature for the implantation and to use high power flash lamp to heat the top surface of the copper rapidly for the etching reaction. Since only the very top surface of the wafer is heated in the transient it may rapidly cool back to low temperatures with the active cooling. The actual cycle time and net etch rate will depend on the individual apparatus.

As shown in the volatilizable compound of the target are exposed to a gas composition at appropriate temperature and pressure for a time duration sufficient to completely etch the volatilizable compound . In certain applications the target may also be exposed to electrons to facilitate etching. shows a target after the volatilizable compound being removed.

Using glancing angle ion bombardment for surface modification rather than conventional near normal incidence ions has the advantages of preferentially removing surface asperities leading to flat surfaces.

Electrons from the electron beam column are focused onto a target surface . The electrons are scanned across the surface of the target by magnet deflecting fields provided by one or more scanning coils . Current is provided to the coils via a scanner driver . Electrons striking the target are either backscattered or initiate secondary emission. Either way a detector generates a signal proportional to the amount of backscattering or secondary emission. The signal may be amplified by an amplifier . The amplified signal and a signal from the scanner driver are combined by the image generator to produce a high contrast magnified image of the surface of the target . The images may be analyzed by the image analyzer .

An electron activated etching gas or vapor composition is introduced from one or more remote sources via a conduit . It is desirable to introduce the etching gas or vapor as close as possible to the point on the surface of the target impacted by the electrons from the electron beam column . By way of example the etching gas or vapor may be introduced between two adjacent electrodes of the immersion lens . The electrons activate localized etching of the target surface . Images of the etched surface generated by the image generator may be analyzed by the image analyzer . The image analysis determines a measure of quality of the modified surface or shape and size of resulting formed structures. More details on the ion implantation for patterned etching of materials using the EBACE system described above can be found in prior commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 622 625 which has been incorporated herein by reference.

In an embodiment of the present invention the eBACE method may be combined with selective ion implantation for patterned etching of materials that are otherwise difficult to etch. The ion implantation may be performed either with or without using a mask. For example as shown in a wafer may be covered by a copper layer with an insulator layer on the top. The insulator layer can be etched by means of interaction of electron beam from a beam column with gas composition to form openings in the insulator layer using eBACE as shown in . The openings expose portions of the copper layer . Alternatively the mask pattern may be formed using conventional photolithographic techniques. Exposed portions of the copper layer are subjected to bombardment by energetic ions to create volumes of volatilizable material beneath the openings as illustrated in . The wafer copper layer and insulator layer may be kept at relatively low temperature e.g. room temperature during ion implantation e.g. by actively or passively cooling the wafer .

By way of example the energetic ions may be oxygen ions. Implanting sufficient doses of oxygen ions into the copper layer can form volumes of volatilizable copper oxide. Where a mask is used the ion bombardment may take place over a wide area. In alternative embodiments ions may be implanted at selected locations without using a mask. For example a focused ion beam system may be used to directly write a pattern of ion implantation at selected locations on the copper layer . Furthermore embodiments of the invention may be implemented using combinations of ion bombardment through a mask and direct write e.g. focused beam ion implantation. Alternatively ions may be implanted using an ion diffusion top layer deposition tool. The depth of ion implantation may be controlled e.g. by control of the ion energy. Oxygen implantation depths for energies between about 20 50 kV have been reported for implantation of oxygen ions into copper to depths of about 20 nm to about 50 nm.

The copper oxide volumes may be etched using eBACE method to form a desired pattern on a wafer shown on leaving openings in the copper layer . By way of example and without limitation a gas composition used to etch copper oxide volumes may include a halogen based etching compound e.g. HCl Cletc. The electron beam may be provided by a wide area flood gun e.g. a 300 mm electron flood gun.

Embodiments of the present invention may replace chemical mechanical polishing CMP of copper or other materials in semiconductor wafer or chip manufacturing.

While the above is a complete description of the preferred embodiment of the present invention it is possible to use various alternatives modifications and equivalents. Therefore the scope of the present invention should be determined not with reference to the above description but should instead be determined with reference to the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents. Any feature whether preferred or not may be combined with any other feature whether preferred or not. In the claims that follow the indefinite article A or An refers to a quantity of one or more of the item following the article except where expressly stated otherwise. The appended claims are not to be interpreted as including means plus function limitations unless such a limitation is explicitly recited in a given claim using the phrase means for. 

