---

title: Superconducting source for tunable coherent terahertz radiation
abstract: A system includes a solid state source of THz radiation and a detector. The source of THz radiation may be based on a superconducting material, such as materials containing one or more Josephson junctions (e.g. BSCCO). The source may include a crystal of superconducting material on which a mesa of superconducting material is formed. The resonant coupling between the Josephson oscillations and the fundamental cavity mode of the mesa may lead to synchronization of the Josephson junctions and emission of powerful THz radiation. The mesa may be formed and/or handled such that THz radiation can be emitted by the material without requiring application of an external magnetic field (e.g. the mesa may include a non-uniform compositional gradient, a non-uniform shape, may have radiation non-uniformly applied to the mesa, etc.).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08026487&OS=08026487&RS=08026487
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 08026487
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
The United States Government may have certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the United States Government and The University of Chicago and or pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

This application generally relates to the field of Terahertz based technologies. In particular the application relates to a new source of Terahertz radiation methods of manufacturing the new source and systems incorporating such a source.

The THz frequency range of the electromagnetic spectrum is frequently defined as ranging from 0.3 to 20 THz 10 666 cm 1 mm 15 m .

The emerging field of terahertz science and technology holds promise in many diverse fields. This diverse range generally derives from two unique properties of THz radiation its spectral specificity to vibrational and rotational modes of a wide variety of important chemical and biomolecular species and to its penetrating properties through packaging materials clothes plastics etc.

Ultra fast laser pumped photoconductive switches pumped gas lasers optical difference frequency generation and parametric oscillation frequency doubled diodes and quantum cascade lasers among others are approaches pursued for developing sources of THz radiation. Progress in this field is blocked by lack of portable powerful and tunable radiation sources.

A system includes a solid state source of THz radiation and a detector. The source of THz radiation may be based on a superconducting material such as materials containing one or more Josephson junctions e.g. BSCCO . The source may include a crystal of superconducting material on which a mesa of superconducting material is formed. The mesa may help focus waves contained in the material such that the waves are provided roughly in phase and at about the same frequency. For example the mesa may be configured such that a Fabry Perot cavity mode is formed to which the waves in Josephson junctions of the superconductor may be coupled.

The mesa may be formed and or handled such that THz radiation can be emitted by the material without requiring application of an external magnetic field. For example the mesa may include a non uniform compositional gradient a non uniform shape a means of suppressing superconductivity e.g. may have radiation non uniformly applied to the mesa and or have some other feature that provides a non uniform coupling between a current applied to the superconductor and electromagnetic modes of the superconductor.

Many embodiments of the present invention relate to methods and or apparatus to synchronize substantially all and or all junctions in the stack of intrinsic Josephson junctions into coherent in phase oscillations. In some embodiments of the invention the stack of junctions may be configured such that a Fabry Perot cavity mode can be formed. The voltage across the stack may be adjusted in such a way that the oscillation frequency of the junctions coincides with the frequency of the cavity mode. Under this resonance condition the oscillations in the Josephson junctions may couple to the cavity mode and as a consequence may oscillate in phase at substantially the same e.g. the same frequency of the cavity mode. Then the electromagnetic waves from each junction may add up coherently resulting in sizable emission power.

One aspect of some embodiments of the invention relates to the coupling of the Josephson oscillations and the cavity mode. In order to achieve efficient coupling and thereby feed energy efficiently into the cavity mode the stack may include a non uniform composition or structure may include a non uniform shape may have radiation non uniformly applied to it or may have a non uniform temperature.

In many embodiments the mesa may be formed and or handled such that THz radiation can be emitted by the material without requiring application of an external magnetic field.

Another aspect of some embodiments of the invention relate to the emission of THz radiation with tunable frequency. For mesas that may have non rectangular cross sections or other patterning the emission frequency may be tuned by changing the applied voltage around the resonance condition.

Various aspects of the invention are described hereinafter and these and other objects of improvements are described in detail hereinafter including the drawings described in the following section.

An alternative approach for providing THz radiation is based on the superconducting Josephson effect that occurs between layers of superconducting materials that are separated by thin insulating non superconducting materials. An alternating electromagnetic wave referred to as Josephson plasma waves in what follows whose frequency is proportional to the voltage difference applied between the superconducting layers arises in the insulating layer. A voltage of 1 mV corresponds to a frequency of 0.483 THz. The highly anisotropic CuO based high temperature superconductors such as the BiSrCaCuO BiSrCaCuOand TlBaCaCuOderived superconductors are composed of superconducting CuOlayers separated by insulating layers thereby forming stacks of intrinsic Josephson junctions. Extensive numerical simulations indicated that the high packing density of such atomic scale junctions could form the basis for efficient sources of THz radiation. However the key requirement for producing useful radiation from such stacks of intrinsic junctions namely achieving synchronization of the high frequency oscillations of all the junctions in the stack has so far been a major challenge preventing the realization of a useful THz source.

A tunable and portable source of Terahertz THz radiation can be made by extracting radiation from oscillating waves within a body. The waves may be electromagnetic waves that may arise due to the application of an electrical current e.g. to the body . The body may be formed using one or more materials possessing one or more Josephson junctions e.g. one or more intrinsic Josephson junctions such as BiSrCaCuO BSCCO bismuth strontium calcium copper oxide .

THz radiation may be extracted from the body that consists of a multilayer structure. The multilayer structure may be formed of multiple layers of one or more materials and may contain one or more Josephson junctions e.g. intrinsic Josephson junctions . In some embodiments the multilayer structure may be configured to create a Fabry Perot cavity mode to which the waves in the junctions may be coupled.

In some embodiments the radiation produced by the Josephson junctions may be harnessed with the application of substantially no magnetic field i.e. a field of less than 50 T such as 0 T .

In some of these embodiments the Josephson junction component may include an asymmetrical structure such as but not limited to an asymmetrical cross section a non uniform composition or structure a non uniform shape a radiation non uniformly applied to it or a non uniform temperature which may induce an efficient coupling between the current and the electromagnetic modes.

The portable radiation source may be used in one or more analytical applications such as medical diagnostics security screening space exploration environmental monitoring manufacturing evaluation and or pharmaceutical evaluation. The portable radiation source may be used in conjunction with a detector that provides data relating to THz waves that have been in contact with e.g. passed through scattered by etc. a subject of interest and a processor coupled to the detector to analyze the data provided by the detector.

Referring to a Josephson junction is an arrangement of two superconductors linked by an insulating generally thin barrier. A property of Josephson junctions is generally to generate high frequency electromagnetic fields having a frequency proportional to an applied voltage. This typically makes it possible to fabricate coherent tunable high frequency sources . However using Josephson junctions as a source of high frequency electromagnetic fields is complicated by the need to synchronize all junctions in the array to oscillate in phase. One method of synchronizing junctions according to some embodiments is to couple them to the same electronic resonance circuit.

One material providing a Josephson junctions is BSCCO BSCCO generally exhibits the intrinsic Josephson effect BSCCO can be regarded as stack of intrinsic Josephson junctions in which the superconducting CuOplanes are separated by insulating Bi Sr O layers. The intrinsic Josephson effect in BSCCO may enable the fabrication of arrays e.g. one dimensional arrays of a very large number of closely packed substantially identical junctions. The array of junctions may be formed in stacked structure e.g. mesas . The stacked structure may be sculpted onto single crystals .

A radiation source may be configured such that multiple junctions e.g. substantially all and or all junctions in such a stack may be configured to oscillate at essentially the same e.g. the same frequency and essentially in phase e.g. in phase . This uniformity may produce strong coherent electromagnetic emission with a total power scaling as the square of the number of junctions. In some embodiments the source provides a power output e.g. far field radiation power of at least about 20 nW at least about 30 nW at least about 40 nW at least about 50 nW at least about 100 nW at least about 250 nW at least about 500 nW at least about 1 W at least about 10 W at least about 100 W at least about 500 W at least about 1 mW and or at least about 1.5 mW. In some embodiments the source provides a power output e.g. far field radiation power of less than about 50 mW less than about 35 mW less than about 20 mW less than about 10 mW less than about 1 mW less than about 500 nW less than about 250 nW less than about 100 nW less than about 75 nW and or less than about 50 nW.

In some embodiments such synchronization may be facilitated by coupling of the junctions to resonant modes in an external cavity e.g. a microwave cavity and or in a cavity formed by the stacked structure e.g. mesa itself. In some of these embodiments the synchronization is primarily more than 50 and or essentially more than 90 synchronized within the stacked structure itself.

In some embodiments electromagnetic waves inside large area multilayer structures e.g. mesas may tend to propagate as Josephson plasma modes. The in plane velocity of these modes may depend on the out of plane wave vector with the highest velocity corresponding to the in phase mode all junctions oscillate in phase and the lowest to the anti phase mode in which neighboring junctions oscillate out of phase. Furthermore for all such modes multiple reflections at the side faces of the structure may lead to a standing wave pattern e.g. a Fabry Perot type cavity resonance .

Generally waves that are out of phase may cancel each other and thereby reduce the amount of measurable emissions outside the surface of the THz radiation producing body. In some embodiments the stacked structure is configured to reduce the extent of cancellation due to out of phase waves at a surface of the stacked structure .

In particular in some embodiments electromagnetic fields residing in the Josephson junctions may be converted into coherent polarized high frequency radiation e.g. THz radiation .

In some embodiments the waves within the Josephson junctions may be synchronized to be in essentially the same phase by coupling the waves to a Fabry Perot cavity mode. This synchronizations may result in an available electro magnetic energy that increases quadratically with the number of junctions rather than linearly as is observed for uncorrelated junctions. In some embodiments this synchronization at resonance may cause energy to be pumped efficiently into this synchronized mode enhancing its intensity by a factor equal to the quality factor of the cavity.

Referring to in some embodiments the cavity is formed by the BSCCO mesa structure itself and resonance may tend to occur when the width W of the mesa equals an integer multiple of the half wavelength of the Josephson plasma waves W m 2.

In some embodiments the electro magnetic waves described above may be excited essentially without e.g. without external application of a magnetic field. This is contrary to many teachings in the art from prior approaches which rely on operating the Josephson junctions in a magnetic field that is applied parallel to the junction in order to generate high frequency electromagnetic radiation.

In some embodiments the electro magnetic waves described above may be excited essentially without e.g. without external application of a magnetic field. This is contrary to many teachings in the art from prior approaches that the use of Josephson junctions as a source of electro magnetic radiation which approaches rely on operating the Josephson junction in a magnetic field that is applied parallel to the junction.

An analysis of the fundamental symmetry properties of a device such as shown in indicates that a uniform current flowing perpendicular to the junctions cannot excite the resonant cavity modes. Symmetry may be broken in any number of ways to enable the excitation of the resonant cavity modes in zero applied magnetic field. These methods for breaking symmetry may be designed to create the most efficient transfer of energy into the resonant cavity mode.

One method for creating a structure lacking symmetry may be to introduce compositional gradients e.g. of BSCCO in the structure . These compositional gradients may induce a non uniform critical current density across the width of the mesa. For example the superconducting properties of BSCCO T J. . . are generally believed to strongly depend on its oxygen content. Thus controlled annealing in an oxygen atmosphere may be used to establish a critical current density that is higher near one side face of a structure than near the opposite face of the structure . Similarly the critical current near the side faces may be higher or lower than near the center of the mesa.

A second method for creating a structure lacking symmetry may be to form the structure in an asymmetric shape e.g. cross section . For example the shape of a mesa structure may include a trapezoidal shape cross section and or a different non rectangular shape cross section . The asymmetrical shape may induce an asymmetric current flow and or an asymmetric reflection coefficient at the side faces.

A third method for creating a structure lacking symmetry may be to provide an asymmetric critical current distribution. For example superconductivity may be deliberately suppressed on at least one side of the structure such as by irradiating that side s by an electron beam by a proton beam and or by ion implantation.

Any of these methods for creating a lack of e.g. breaking symmetry may be used alone or may be used in combination with each other and or in combination with other techniques. Further other techniques for creating a lack of symmetry in the mesa may also be used such as a non uniform temperature distribution inside the mesa.

In one embodiment superconductivity may be suppressed within a narrow region of width D near an edge of mesa structure. Such suppression may either spontaneously appear during fabrication processes or can be deliberately introduced by irradiation or heat treatments. illustrates the computed current voltage characteristics and radiation from both sides of mesa structure in the vicinity of the resonance for representative mesa parameters. The mesa width W 43 m is selected to bring the resonance frequency close to 1 THz and we assume that within the distance D 2 m from the edge the critical current is half the bulk value which we assume to be 504 A cm. These and other parameters are listed in the upper plot.

For selected mesa parameters the power reaches 30 W in the maximum and the power conversion efficiency in the maximum is about 3 . Both the radiation power and efficiency can be further increased by increasing the modulation depth D.

The above analysis suggests that for the same superconducting parameters the optimum modulation depth is reached for D W 2 yielding the maximum radiation power of around 2 mW for L 300 m. Increasing the length Lof the mesa increases the radiation power in proportion.

The radiation source of may include any number of other components. For example the source may include contacts e.g. contacts formed from gold in contact with a crystal . Contacts are connected to a power source via lead wires . Source also includes a conductive e.g. gold layer over the structure that is in contact with a lead wire . An electrically insulating e.g. CaF material may be placed over the structure to isolate structure and or layer from other parts of source .

The radiation source may be an all solid state source with no moving parts. In many embodiments the source may be portable. For example in some embodiments the source may have a volume incrementally of less than about 10 cubic meters less than 1 cubic meter less than 1000 cubic cm less than 100 cubic cm less than 10 cubic cm less than 1 cubic cm less than 500 cubic mm less than 250 cubic mm less than 150 cubic mm less than 100 cubic mm less than 75 cubic mm less than 50 cubic mm less than 25 cubic mm less than 20 cubic mm less than 15 cubic mm less than 10 cubic mm less than 5 cubic mm less than 3 cubic mm less than 1 cubic mm less than 0.5 cubic mm less than 0.1 cubic mm. As another example in some embodiments the radiation source may have an incremental weight of less than about 100 kg less than 10 kg less than 1 kg less than 500 g less than 100 g less than 50 g less than 25 g less than 15 g less than 10 g less than 5 g less than 2 g less than 1 g less than 500 mg less than 250 mg and or less than 150 mg.

Radiation source may also include other components such as components used to enhance the emission efficiency of radiation source . For example radiation source may include one or more antennas e.g. bow tie antennas impedance matching dielectric coatings and or gratings configured to facilitate transmission of radiation from source . Further source may include multiple structures arranged on crystal .

Radiation source may be configured to provide a THz radiation wave e.g. may be configured to provide radiation that is at a frequency in a range of about 3 10Hz to about 3 10Hz . In some embodiments radiation source may be configured to provide radiation having a frequency of at least about 0.1 THz at least about 0.2 THz at least about 0.3 THz at least about 0.5 THz at least about 0.75 THz at least about 1 THz at least about 1.5 THz at least about 2 THz and or at least about 2.5 THz. In some embodiments radiation source may be configured to provide radiation at a frequency that is no more than about 10 THz no more than about 6 THz no more than about 3 THz no more than about 2.5 THz no more than about 2 THz no more than about 1.5 THz no more than about 1 THz no more than about 0.75 THz and or no more than about 0.5 THz.

In some embodiments the radiation source may be tunable. In some embodiments the radiation source may be tunable by at least about 3 e.g. a 3 deviation on either side of the median frequency provided by the source by at least about 5 by at least about 7 and or by at least about 9 .

The radiation source based on superconductors may be configured to operate in any of various temperatures. In some embodiments the radiation source is at least configured to be capable of providing THz radiation at a temperature of 20 K 30 K 40 K 50 K 60 K 70 K 80 K 90K 105 K and or 120 K. The upper limit may be provided by superconducting transition temperature of a material used to form source e.g. 90 K for BiSrCaCuOand 124 K for BiSrCaCuO . In some embodiments the radiation source may be configured such that it does not provide THz radiation above a particular temperature. In some embodiments the radiation source may be configured such that it does not provide THz radiation at temperature above 200 K above 150 K above 100 K above 75 K and or above 60 K.

Referring to in one exemplary embodiment a THz based detection system includes a housing configured to contain a radiation source such as radiation source . The housing also contains a power circuit configured to connect the radiation source to an external power source e.g. an AC power source and a control circuit configured to control application of power from the power source to the radiation source .

The housing may be configured to be portable. For example the housing may have incremental volumes of less than about 200 cubic ft less than 150 cubic ft less than 100 cubic ft less than 75 cubic ft less than 50 cubic ft less than 25 cubic ft less than 20 cubic ft less than 15 cubic ft less than 10 cubic ft less than 5 cubic ft less than 3 cubic ft and or less than 1 cubic ft. The portion e.g. transmitter of system contained by housing may have a weight of less than about 100 kg less than 50 kg less than 25 kg less than 15 kg less than 10 kg less than 5 kg less than 2 kg less than 1 kg less than 500 g.

The housing may also include other components to affect a direction in which radiation is provided by the THz radiation transmitter of system and or a wavelength of radiation provided from the transmitter . For example the housing may house one or more of a shield a filter a reflector etc. The housing may also include a means of maintaining the radiation source in a superconducting state such as a cryo cooler and temperature controller.

The system also includes a detector configured to detect THz radiation that has interacted with a subject of interest . The subject of interest may be a biological subject such as a person an inanimate object such as an object to be screened by a security screening system etc. The detector provides an output to a processing circuit that is configured to process data provided from the detector . The processing circuit may be configured to process data from the detector to provide information useful in providing diagnostic information. In other embodiments the processing circuit may be configured to process data from the detector to provide information relating to the contents of the subject of interest . The processing circuit may be connected to a display such that information based on data processed by the circuit may be displayed to a user of the system . The processing circuit may be a common circuit with the control circuit . Further the housing may be configured to house one or more of the display the detector and the processing circuit .

The following examples are presented to illustrate the present invention and to assist one of ordinary skill in making and using the same. The examples are not intended in any way to otherwise limit the scope of the invention.

A structure was formed as shown in using a BSCCO crystal as a base onto which a BSCCO mesa was formed. The mesa had a typical size of 300 80 1 m.

Defining the mesa structure and electrical contacts using photolithography according to a lay out as shown in results on mesas with variable width W and fixed length of 300 m were created 

Using the photoresist portion from the previous step as a mask the mesa structure is fabricated by removing the surrounding BSCCO material using Ar ion milling a typical mesa height is 1 m. By adjusting the incident angle of the Ar ions mesa structures with different cross sections can be fabricated. For example the scanning electron microscope SEM image in displays a mesa structure having a trapezoidal cross section with one side face sloped steeper than the other 

After removal of the photoresist portion coating the lower part of the crystal with an insulating layer of CaF through a shadow mask and

depositing an Au strip through a shadow mask to establish electrical contact to the top of the mesa structure .

An electromagnetic cavity resonance was excited in the BSCCO structure of Example 1. A current passed down the mesa excites the fundamental cavity mode on the width of the mesa as indicated by the solid half wave and high frequency electromagnetic radiation is emitted from the side faces. We analyze the spectral properties of the radiation with a set of parallel plate metal waveguide filters. These filters have a cut off for electromagnetic waves whose E field is parallel to the metal sheets TE waves whereas there is no cut off for TM waves. The cut off frequency for the 1TE mode is given by f c 2d where d is the spacing between the metal plates and cis the vacuum speed of light meaning that TE polarized waves with frequency below fare not transmitted. In the following parallel filter setting refers to the filter plates aligned with the CuO planes.

The sample is mounted in a He gas flow cryostat equipped with a Teflon window and the emitted power is detected with an ac coupled Si composite bolometer located at about 20 cm from the sample. Unwanted far IR radiation is rejected with a 3 THz low pass filter.

Excitation of the structure of Example 1 established synchronized in phase oscillations of the junctions thereby enabling continuous wave coherent radiation power of up to 50 nW at 0.6 THz when measured by a remote detector.

These values are more than 10 000 times larger than any reported far field power levels. The devices operate in zero applied magnetic field.

The available power is potentially much larger as there is evidence that up to 20 W of power are pumped into the observed THz cavity resonance see .

The jumps in the return branch of the IV c that often correlate with the radiative peaks indicate that a fraction of the junctions in the mesa revert to the non resistive non radiative supercurrent state. This allows evaluation of the radiation from the same sample for varying numbers of emitters and thereby obtaining a direct test of coherency. displays a sequence of emission peaks for positive and negative bias voltages on the 80 m mesa. The number of active junctions n relative to the highest emission peak can be determined directly from the IV c. Equivalently since successive peaks correspond to the same emission frequency see ncan be estimated also from the voltages of the emission. The observed peak powers are proportional to nas shown in . This demonstrates that the junctions in the stack emit coherently.

The spectral characterization of the detected radiation is presented in . These data enable an estimation of the radiation frequency as that filter cut off frequency where the polarization ratio levels off i.e. 0.4 0.52 0.64 and 0.85 THz for the 100 m 80 m 60 m and 40 m wide mesas with 10 uncertainty. Moreover for the first three mesas these frequency values were confirmed by direct measurements of spectra shown in . These values are in good agreement with the frequency f c 2nw expected for the fundamental cavity resonance with length w yielding f 0.42 THz for w 100 m where n 3.5 is the far IR refractive index of BSCCO for c axis polarized waves.

Furthermore the observed radiation frequencies increase in proportion to 1 w demonstrating that they correspond to the fundamental cavity resonance see inset of . To excite this mode the Josephson frequency across each junction f 2e h Vmust match the cavity resonant frequency where e is the elementary charge h is Planck s constant and Vthe voltage per junction.

Using the mesa height of 1.1 m from AFM the 1.56 nm spacing of CuO planes and assuming that all junctions contribute equally the mesa voltage shown in for the large radiative peak corresponds to 0.49 THz that is in good agreement with the filter spectral data. Thus on decreasing bias from the fully resistive state the emission power builds up as the Josephson frequency comes in resonance with the cavity.

During a jump in the IV c the number of resistive junctions decreases and the current and therefore the voltage per remaining junction increase. Consequently the Josephson frequency increases falls out of resonance with the cavity mode and emission ceases. With further decreasing bias the resonance is again approached from above and the behavior repeats yielding a second emission peak.

Scaling the size and or shape of the BSCCO crystals may lead to further enhancements of emission frequencies and or power levels.

One embodiment is directed to a solid state source of THz radiation comprising a layered superconductor for providing coherent and polarized THz radiation.

Another embodiment is directed to a THz radiation source comprising a large number of stacked Josephson junctions configured to have a Fabry Perot cavity resonance to synchronize the junctions. The radiation source may provide coherent enhancement of the radiation intensity using the Fabry Perot cavity resonance.

Another embodiment is directed to a THz radiation source that does not require application of a magnetic field to generate the THz radiation. The THz radiation source may include a superconducting material. The superconducting material may include one or more Josephson junctions and one or more of the junctions may be an intrinsic Josephson junction.

Another embodiment is directed to a THz radiation source. The THz radiation source is configured to excite high frequency electro magnetic waves by creating a non uniform Josephson critical current density. In some embodiments the non uniform coupling constant is created by use of one or more of a compositional gradient and a non uniform shape.

Another embodiment is directed to a THz radiation source comprising a cavity. The emission frequency of the radiation source is tunable based on the cavity size.

Another embodiment is directed to a source of THz radiation. The THz radiation source comprises a superconductor configured to emit THz radiation. The superconductor may include one or more Josephson junctions. One or more of the Josephson junctions may be intrinsic Josephson junctions. The superconductor may be configured to emit THz radiation without an application of an external magnetic field.

Another embodiment is directed to a system comprising a radiation source as disclosed in any of the illustrative embodiments discussed above and a detector configured to provide information based on an interaction of THz radiation from the radiation source with a subject of interest.

Another embodiment is directed to a detection system that includes a solid state portable source of THz radiation. The system also includes a detector configured to provide information based on an interaction of THz radiation from the radiation source with a subject of interest.

Coherent electromagnetic waves at THz frequencies hold promise for noninvasive sensing imaging and spectroscopy across the physical medical and biological sciences. The embodiments discussed above may be applied to diagnosis and or evaluation applications such as medical diagnostics space exploration environmental monitoring security screening manufacturing evaluation and or pharmaceutical evaluation. The wavelength range of 30 m to 1 mm may allow for imaging with good spatial resolution.

The embodiments discussed above may also be applied to other applications such as data communication applications e.g. high speed data communication applications . For example a system may include a transmitter comprising a THz radiation source the transmitter potentially being configured to encode a THz transmission with data a communication medium e.g. open space such as through the environment a body capable of carrying THz radiation etc. and a receiver configured to receive the THz radiation that was sent along the medium and or to decode data carried by the THz radiation.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

