---

title: System for financial documentation conversion
abstract: A method to prepare an Extensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) document in a web-hosted server includes authenticating a user, uploading financial information from a spreadsheet, storing the information, and processing the data into an XBRL compliant document for transmittal to a financial regulatory agency. The process takes an input from an Excel™ spreadsheet and produces a financial statement in XBRL format while providing a full audit trail for the document conversion and authorization including manual inputs to the final-form submission.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08099370&OS=08099370&RS=08099370
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08099370
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070403
---
In today s regulatory environment companies of all sizes in all industries face ever increasing compliance requirements. Compliance activities regularly require reporting financial information to commercial banks insurance issuers tax authorities stock exchanges and other regulatory agencies. Most of this reporting takes place on paper with information manually entered on a form submitted and then keyed in again by the receiving bank agency and so forth. Regulators and stock exchanges have begun mandating filing in XML based schemas to reduce manual data entry and errors and facilitate automation. For example the U.K. tax authority Her Majesty s Revenue and Customs has mandated all companies file in an XML based schema for finance and business reporting called Extensible Business Reporting Language XBRL by 2010. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has implemented a voluntary filing program in XBRL and invested in the upgrading of their filing system to support XML data and specifically XBRL.

Few tools today can convert financial information to XBRL. There are also few tools that can automatically convert financial information to other required proprietary XML schemas. Finance and accounting software applications and other client based tools that can convert financial information to XBRL require users to manually add standard XML tags to financial facts. Users of these tools must basically use extensive mapping routines as inputs to write XML metadata. The present invention addresses these concerns and others.

In one aspect of the invention a hosted web service automatically converts uploaded financial and related business information documents into a standardized format including XML based schema documents such as XBRL which can then be submitted to a multiple geographies jurisdictions or financial reporting entities.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In one aspect of the invention the host application server is a network based server that provides financial document conversion of financial information in a native form to a financial reporting statement in a defined XML based schema such as XBRL. The network interfaces with the web interfaces and host application of the host server . The host application provides the overall infrastructure and is the primary consumer of the data that will be stored and published by the server . The host application maintains its own processes such as user management and business rules required to make intelligent use of the data that will be provided by the user. The host application and web interfaces serve to interact and interface with the other functional blocks of the server which include authentication repository publishing analysis validation and mapping and standardized data definition and taxonomy modules.

The web interface interacts presents a web interface to the end user. As an example in the context of a prototype loan application the web user interface will provide an interface to handle the submission of financial data the interactive mapping of line items onto a pre supplied taxonomy and the extension of the pre supplied taxonomy to meet the specific needs of the end user and the reporting documentation standards. A user management function is responsible for maintaining and including the association of users with companies and assigning roles privileges to the user based on the rights assigned to those users.

The authentication module provides a mechanism for authentication of the user before upload of any financial information. In general users must be authenticated before the server services can be used. Once a user has been authenticated host application server may choose to cache the authentication status to prevent unnecessary external authentication requests. The authentication module may perform authentication itself or it may delegate authentication authority to an authentication mechanism such as a web based authentication service. In one embodiment the authentication module will thus be composed of bridges to various possible points of authentication such as the host application the user s enterprise domain or the local server cache. The passing of session specific tokens or other artifacts to identify the context under which a user interacts with the server will be managed by the authentication module in co operation with the host application .

The analysis and mapping module performs the services of the validation of financial data the conversion of financial data to commonly accepted formats such as XBRL and the aggregation of financial data to allow richer analysis and benchmarking spanning multiple instances of financial data. This module also includes financial models supporting the analysis and mapping functions. The mapping module provides the functionality needed to interpret the submission of financial data onto pre supplied taxonomy frameworks. In one embodiment a requirement of the mapping module is the parsing of Excel spreadsheets available through Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Excel spreadsheets are parsed into a usable object model from which financial information may be extracted. Another embodiment is the requirement for the parsing of text files such as a tab delimited text file. Such text files may include standard ASCII text files and word processing files such as Microsoft Word text files.

The repository module provides persistent storage for the server. In one embodiment the repository is an instance of SQL Server also available from Microsoft Corporation. The repository is responsible for retention of the universal data model and most other working records.

The publishing module is the primary means by which external users and processes consume the data provided by the host server . The server delivers its financial data in a variety of ways which include HTTP S for simple web based access SMTP if users wish to send receive emails notifications of financial data Web Services SOAP for a programmatic way to access the financial data and Microsoft Office SharePoint Services for online review and collaboration of financial data. In a preferred embodiment XML electronic signatures are provided as an option for the secure transmission of financial data. For instance a given user may choose to sign and encrypt a document such that only the intended recipient will be able to read the document and the intended recipient can trust that the document has not been altered during transit. In one embodiment the encryption is performed using standard public private key pairs under acceptable security protocols.

In one embodiment the server provides a taxonomy module for gathering taxonomy requirements and updates from interested financial entities such as the user and the destination reporting agency. The set of taxonomies and their extensions maintained are integrated into the core set of taxonomies and as views over the universal data model. Generally the user can add a useful taxonomy for better financial statement reporting and also provide additional audit trail aspects.

After the user is authenticated to the system the user generally selects which actions he would like to take. Assuming the user wishes to submit a financial statement to a reporting agency the user would upload his financial data at step . Financial information generally exists in some form of a structured document whether that be an Excel spreadsheet an XBRL instance document or as discrete figures entered into a WebForm. This information can be sent to the financial server directly via e mail a user web interface or a file uploaded from another secure location. In the case where the document comes from a Web form the document data will exist in the form of name value pairs. Otherwise the format of the input document preferably is known to the server .

The uploaded document is stored in native format in step . In one embodiment the uploaded user financial data is stored as a read only copy for purposes of data extraction and audit record build. Also associated with the individual data are metadata that was either captured from the user during data submission or gathered from the source document itself. The persistent storage of the server retains a complete audit trail of all financial data that has been submitted. In one feature of the invention an audit log is generated that indicates all of the manipulations relevant to the formation of a final financial statement from the user s input of financial data. Thus it becomes possible to trace back all of the final financial results as well as the approvals back to the original source document and the individuals who authorized the generation or change of the final financial statement. The audit information can include any stored financial data any relevant financial model any confirmations of data from the user the source of any electronic signatures and any electronic transmission of the signed final form statement of financial data.

After the original uploaded document is stored a copy is read and decomposed into its component parts at step . The server analyzes the data that was submitted decomposes the individual points of data into discrete facts. These facts can exist as very loosely coupled pieces of information where the inherent structure that originally encapsulated the set of facts has been stripped away. This highly decoupled nature of the facts will allow them to now be mapped and applied to taxonomies and forms with wide flexibility. In one embodiment the server accepts and understands financial data that exists in an Excel worksheet. Other embodiments provide support for uploaded user financial data documents in XBRL format and ASCII or other text based formats including Microsoft Word.

One function of the server is the mapping function which can handle an extremely diverse set of inputs and impose a structure on a dataset where there was no explicit pre existing structure. Automatic mapping of the decomposed data into a target report or other target financial application is performed in step . Decomposing the financial data into individual data values also results in a mapping state associated with the decomposition. In one embodiment a mapping state is enumerated for each of the states of unknown tentative mapped automatically mapped historically mapped manually and unmappable. To confirm that the mappings should be accepted in a specific state there may be an interactive exchange with the user to finalize the mapping states. Once this call is made all mapping states will be persisted in the object model and a historical snapshot of the mappings will be made. The historical snapshot can serve as hints for future mapping sessions.

Individual mappings define associations between facts such as the data values that came from the source document to concepts in a selected standardized data definition set or taxonomy. These mappings are created both automatically and manually by the user. It is possible that a single fact can be simultaneously mapped to multiple taxonomies. These mappings will be stored in the persistence layer and will form part of the user and company profile. These profiles can also be examined during future mappings sessions to reduce the amount of manual mappings that need to be performed.

The process of mapping a document may include manual mapping if an unknown or tentative data value is encountered. Under such conditions as in optional step the server will interact with the user to resolve the unknown data value to map it as needed. In this case the host application explicitly creates a binding between a single instance of financial data value and a concept in the financial data model. When the mapping process receives a final explicit confirmation from the user then the server will make a permanent record of the document and the mappings that have been applied. These mappings will be stored in the persistence layer and will form part of the user and company profile. These profiles can also be examined during future mappings sessions to reduce the amount of manual mappings that need to be performed.

After the input document such as a spreadsheet has been mapped the financial data has been fully decomposed and exists in the database in a highly de normalized state. Step applies the financial model to the mapped values as those values are applied to a target reporting format. For example if the target reporting format is an U.S. SEC reporting form the decomposed values are driven into the SEC reporting format where the financial model is applied to produce results consistent with the desired format output and standard financial accounting procedures. Also to preserve the integrity of the audit trail the data model will always retains a pointer back to the original source document regardless of how many mutations the financial data may undergo. The server uses internal financial models to provide the infrastructure for describing analyzing and validating financial data. One of the capabilities provided by the server financial models is the ability to validate a statement of financial data against the constraints imposed by a given financial model.

After a target reporting format is populated with the financial data acquired from the user s spreadsheet the user is presented with the information. This rendering of the information to the user may be in a draft form of the financial reporting statement format such as an SEC filing or the rendering may be in a standardized accounting format. In either instance the user is given the opportunity to verify validate the accuracy of the draft form financial reporting statement in step . At this time the user may enter edits to the draft form statement and such edits will be entered and re presented to the user for verification. Note that any manipulations to the draft financial statement is recorded in the audit log for data integrity.

To generate the above mentioned rendering of data for verification the host application server provides at least the following the name of the financial statement the set of financial data which belong in a statement the order in which the financial data should be rendered the labels associated with the financial data the relative nesting level of the labels the formatting hints associated with the financial data bold overline underline etc. . With this information the rendering to the user can proceed.

After the user verifies the draft form of the financial reporting statement an instance of the target submission report is generated at step . The instance is essentially a final form of the financial report statement and is presented to the user for final approval. At this step the individual financial facts are mapped onto the standardized data model or onto XBRL taxonomies associated with the instance document. The server can then take advantage of XBRL s calculation formula and definition link bases or other pre defined validation requirements such as ratios or calculations included in generally accepted accounting principles to perform consistency checks in the data. The server can also determine the completeness of the financial data as well as determine if the mappings were applied correctly by the user. The instance document itself may need to be signed and encrypted. For instance public private key pair cryptography standards are used to transfer the final form financial statement between the user and the server .

The server then provides the finalized statement for financial reporting to the user for final approval at step . Here XML electronic signatures are generated by the user. By electronically signing the final form reporting financial statement the user provides authorization to submit or publish the XBRL submission. The final form financial reporting statement is then published at step . Publishing the final form financial statement may occur in a variety of ways such as in HTTP accessible URLs as attachments in email messages or as the data payload in a Web Service interaction. In a preferred embodiment the final form statement is published as an XBRL format that is displayed to the destination node on the network. But other formats are also available including a custom XML form defined by a 3rd party and as an Excel worksheet. The server repository will maintain a complete record of all requests made for financial data enabling users to review over time to whom the financial data has been disclosed and for what purposes as part of updates to the audit log. The audit log is viewable on a display monitor as a read only document by any of the user the server and the destination node. The final form financial reporting instance can be provided to applicable jurisdictions and geographies. Each jurisdiction of geography may have its own reporting standards and thus a different instance document may be generated for each such jurisdiction or geography based on the taxonomies available.

In another aspect of the invention the flow diagram of may be modified to target a XBRL document that is not a financial reporting statement. For example the current invention is useable as an XBRL document production mechanism for the production of other type of financial documents such as applications for loans mortgages asset based insurance or letters of credit.

As an aspect of the invention a computer readable medium such as but not limited to magnetic storage devices optical devices such as CD and DVD media may be used to store computer program instructions which can implement methods discussed or suggested herein. Such computer media are envisioned to retain executable instructions for use on a general purpose computer to enable it to practice aspects of the invention.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Although not required embodiments of the invention can also be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that various embodiments of the invention may be practiced with other computer configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use include but are not limited to personal computers PCs automated teller machines server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs appliances lights environmental control elements minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network bus or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices and client nodes may in turn behave as server nodes.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing an example host computer includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer system . Components of computer system may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer system typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer system and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology Compact Disk Read Only Memory CDROM compact disc rewritable CDRW digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can accessed by computer system .

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer system such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer system may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM CDRW DVD or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer system . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface which may in turn communicate with video memory not shown . In addition to monitor computer systems may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer system may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer system although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer system is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer system typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer system or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Various distributed computing frameworks have been and are being developed in light of the convergence of personal computing and the Internet. Individuals and business users alike are provided with a seamlessly interoperable and Web enabled interface for applications and computing devices making computing activities increasingly Web browser or network oriented.

For example MICROSOFT s .NET platform available from MICROSOFT Corporation includes servers building block services such as Web based data storage and downloadable device software. While exemplary embodiments herein are described in connection with software residing on a computing device one or more portions of an embodiment of the invention may also be implemented via an operating system application programming interface API or a middle man object between any of a coprocessor a display device and a requesting object such that operation may be performed by supported in or accessed via all of .NET s languages and services and in other distributed computing frameworks as well.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments of the invention have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any computing device or system in which it is desirable to implement a method for producing a conversion of input financial data to an XBRL format reporting statement or other XML based schema document. Thus the methods and systems described in connection with embodiments of the present invention may be applied to a variety of applications and devices. While exemplary programming languages names and examples are chosen herein as representative of various choices these languages names and examples are not intended to be limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are numerous ways of providing object code that achieves the same similar or equivalent systems and methods achieved by embodiments of the invention.

The various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the invention or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention.

While aspects of the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Furthermore it should be emphasized that a variety of computer platforms including handheld device operating systems and other application specific operating systems are contemplated especially as the number of wireless networked devices continues to proliferate. Therefore the claimed invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

