---

title: Detecting online abuse in images
abstract: Tools for analyzing images are disclosed. In some cases, the images are analyzed in order to determine whether a particular web site and/or email message is part of an illegitimate online activity. In an aspect, an image analysis process comprises comparing a suspect image with one or more elements of interest (which can include images, words, etc.) by generating fingerprints characterizing the suspect image and the elements of interest, to allow for a quantitative comparison.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07925044&OS=07925044&RS=07925044
owner: MarkMonitor Inc.
number: 07925044
owner_city: Boise
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070201
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 764 433 filed Feb. 1 2006 and entitled Detecting Online Abuse in Images. which is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth in full in this document for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates to the field of image analysis in general and in particular to analyzing images for evidence of illegitimate online practices such as fraud trademark infringement and others.

The growth in the use of the Internet over the past several years has produced a corresponding growth in the number and types of illegitimate practices undertaken over the Internet. From the annoying but relatively innocuous invasion of spam email to more insidious practices such as identity theft including without limitation phishing pharming and the like online fraud sales of counterfeit and or unauthorized goods including via the many reputable online auction sites trademark misuse and the like the Internet has provided numerous opportunities for enterprising fraudsters and con artists to exploit the unwary.

A variety of solutions have been proposed to deal with various types of illegitimate online practices. Merely by way of example various systems for identifying and responding to online fraud are described in detail in the following commonly owned co pending applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference and which are referred to collectively herein as the Anti Fraud Applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 709 938 filed by Shraim et al. on May 2 2004 and U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 996 566 10 996 567 10 996 568 10 996 646 10 996 990 10 996 991 10 996 993 and 10 997 626 all filed by Shraim Shull et al. on Nov. 23 2004 . As another example systems for identifying and or establishing the trustworthiness of various online entities are described in detail in the following commonly owned co pending applications each of which is hereby incorporated by reference and which are referred to collectively herein as the Trust Applications U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 368 255 11 368 329 and 11 368 372 and all filed on Mar. 2 2006 by Shull et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 339 985 filed Jan. 25 2006 by Shull et al.

Such systems often seek to identify illegitimate online practices through the analysis of email messages including without limitation spam messages and or phish messages web sites and other data sources. For instance the Anti Fraud Applications describe systems that can analyze text in an email message and or on a web site and based at least in part on that analysis determine whether the email message and or web site is part of an online scam e.g. an attempted fraud identity theft operation trademark misuse sale of counterfeit goods etc. . In an attempt to avoid detection however many scammers have begun using images to convey information to targets of their scams.

Merely by way of example knowing that many email clients and or servers have spam filters that analyze email text for toxic terms such as common pharmaceuticals promises of bodily enhancement etc. some spammers have begun sending messages that begin with an image such as a GIF or JPEG image comprising an advertisement and include seemingly innocuous text such as an apparent message from one friend to another at the bottom of the message. The email system s spam filter generally is unable to analyze the image and the text of the message includes nothing that would trigger the spam filter. Consequently the spam filter allows the message into the user s inbox. When read by the user however the message is clearly a spam.

As another example a seller offering counterfeit products or genuine products without authorization often will misuse the logo and or other trademarks of a reputable brand in order to entice buyers. Such offers are commonplace on a variety of web sites including in particular auction sites such as eBay . Often the misuse of a trademark will occur in an image displayed on the web page. Accordingly automated tools designed to police trademark infringement and or counterfeit sales which generally search for a textual representation of the trademark brand name etc. will be unable to detect the misuse.

Optical character recognition OCR tools have been developed to analyze an image for any text contained therein. In many cases however those tools require relatively high resolution e.g. 300 dots per inch DPI or better images to resolve text in common e.g. 12 point font sizes. In online use such as email and the web however much lower resolutions e.g. 72 DPI are common. Further most OCR tools perform optimally only when analyzing high contrast e.g. black text on a white background images. In many cases however online are much lower in contrast and or comprise a variety of colors rendering useless many OCR tools. In addition even in situations where an OCR tool might be able to resolve text from an online image traditional OCR tools are computationally expensive. In a high volume application such as analyzing email messages and or web sites in bulk these tools render unacceptable performance.

Accordingly there is a need for solutions that allow the analysis of online images e.g. images in email messages and or on web pages to determine whether a particular image is part of an effort to undertake illegitimate online activities.

Embodiments of the invention provide solutions including without limitation software methods and systems for analyzing images. In some cases the images are analyzed in order to determine whether a particular web site and or email message is part of an illegitimate online activity. Merely by way of example in a set of embodiments an image may be analyzed to determine whether the image represents a misuse of a trademark brand name and or the like. As another example a computer system might be configured to monitor an online auction site and analyze images on that site to determine whether any of the auctions on the site represented attempts to sell counterfeit goods and or otherwise misuse a trademark and or brand name. In another set of embodiments an image may be analyzed to determine whether an email message comprising the image is spam and or is part of a phishing scam. Merely by way of example an image analysis program may be included in a spam filter on an email system such that incoming messages are monitored and any images in such messages are analyzed to determine whether the message should be considered legitimate.

In an aspect the image analysis process performed by some embodiments may comprise comparing a suspect image with one or more elements of interest which can include images words etc. . Some such elements of interest can be considered toxic elements because they represent words logos etc. that indicate a relatively high probability that the image is part of illegitimate online activity. By comparing the suspect image with a relatively narrow set of elements of interest when compared for example with a typical OCR process which needs to perform more generalized text acquisition functions embodiments of the invention can exhibit substantially improved performance at least within the domain of interest over traditional OCR tools. Accordingly embodiments of the invention may be configured and or optimized to analyze the types of images commonly found in email and or on the web e.g. relatively low resolution and or low contrast which have proved to be difficult targets for traditional OCR tools. Further certain embodiments of the invention may also be able analyze images on a relatively high volume basis when compared with traditional OCR tools in part because they can be in some cases far cheaper computationally than traditional OCR processes.

Various embodiments of the invention provide inter alia methods systems and software products. In some embodiments of the invention a system such as a computer system might be configured to implement a method of the invention. Merely by way of example the system might comprise inter alia one or more processors along with instructions which might be stored on a disk and or other computer readable medium executable by the processors to perform the method. In other embodiments a software product might embody the method for example as a set of instructions which again might be stored on a disk and or other computer readable medium which are executable by one or more computers to execute the method. In yet other embodiments one or more physical and or tangible signals might be embedded in a carrier wave. The signals might comprise instructions executable by a computer to perform methods of the invention.

Merely by way of example a method of analyzing an image in accordance with one set of embodiments might comprise maintaining a database comprising representations i.e. image templates of a plurality of elements of interest. The method might further comprise segmenting the image into a plurality of blobs. In an aspect of some embodiments each of the plurality of blobs might be described by a set of characteristics and or might have a set of boundaries. The method then might comprise creating for each of the plurality of blobs a fingerprint for the blob this fingerprint might based at least in part on the boundaries of the blob.

In some embodiments the method further comprises collecting for at least one of the plurality of blobs a list of one or more candidate elements based perhaps on the characteristics the at least one of the plurality of blobs. These candidate elements can be collected from the database for example. A score might be assigned to one or more of the candidate elements based on similarities between a fingerprint of the candidate element and the fingerprint of the at least one of the plurality of blobs. Based at least in part on these scores it can be determined whether the image is a likely match for one or more of the candidate elements.

Other embodiments provide methods for analyzing web sites and or for monitoring email messages. Such methods can implement procedures for analyzing images such as to list one example the method described above. An exemplary method for analyzing a web site might comprise downloading a suspect image from a web site analyzing the suspect image to determine whether the suspect image matches any of the elements of interest and determining whether the web site is likely to be part of an illegitimate online activity based at least in part on an analysis of the suspect image. For instance if the suspect image matches an element of interest that match might be an indicator that the web site is engaged in an illegitimate activity.

Similarly an exemplary method of monitoring email messages might comprise receiving an email message analyzing the email message to identify a suspect image in the email message. This suspect image can be analyzed perhaps using the method described above to determine whether the suspect matches any of the elements of interest. The method then might include determining whether the email message is likely to be part of an illegitimate online activity based at least in part upon an analysis of the suspect image.

An exemplary computer system for analyzing an image in accordance with a set of embodiments comprises a database configured to store of image templates for a plurality of elements of interest. Each of the image templates might comprise a candidate fingerprint each of which comprises a plurality of candidate fingerprint signals. The exemplary computer system also comprises a processor in communication with the database and a computer readable medium having embodied thereon a software program executable by the processor.

In a set of embodiments the software program comprises an image preprocessing and segmentation component configured to receive a suspect image and identify within the suspect image a suspect blob having an associated set of suspect blob boundaries. The software program might also comprise a fingerprint generation component configured to create a suspect fingerprint based at least in part on the suspected blob boundaries. In an aspect the suspect blob fingerprint comprises a set of suspect blob fingerprint signals.

In certain embodiments the computer program might also comprise a fingerprint matching component configured to calculate a similarity score for an element of interest. The similarity score similarity score might be based on a plurality of similarity measures between the suspect fingerprint and a candidate fingerprint for the element of interest. Each of the similarity measures might calculated based on a suspect fingerprint signal and a respective candidate fingerprint signal. The fingerprint matching component then might be configured to determine based at least in part on the similarity score whether the suspect image is a likely match for the element of interest.

In one aspect the invention provides novel solutions including without limitation systems methods and software for analyzing images. Such solutions can be implemented in a variety of contexts including without limitation email filters and web site monitors such as merely by way of example the systems described in the Anti Fraud Applications and the Trust Applications. Merely by way of example the Anti Fraud Applications describe systems that can be used inter alia to analyze text in email messages and or web sites to determine whether the messages and or web sites are part of a phishing scam or other illegitimate online activities. Such systems could additionally and or alternatively use the image analysis solutions of the present invention to perform such analysis of images in messages and or web sites.

In a particular aspect certain embodiments of the invention can be used to monitor online auction sites for instances of fraud trademark misuse and or other illegitimate activities. Merely by way of example a monitoring computer might crawl an auction web site and or otherwise download and or obtain images from the auction web site and process those images using the image analysis solutions described herein to determine whether any of the auctions may constitute an illegitimate online activity. The system then could be configured to take one or more actions including without limitation shutting down the auction automatically if for example the system is operated by or on behalf of the proprietor of the auction web site informing the proprietor of the auction web site of the illegitimate activity sending a cease and desist letter to the seller of the item at issue and or the like .

As described in further detail below some embodiments of the invention may implement an event manager such as those described in the Anti Fraud Applications and or the Trust Applications. In this way for example if there is some question whether an image resembles a toxic element the event manager may inform an operator of that fact and the image and one or more candidate images may be presented visually to an operator so that human judgment can be used to make a final determination. In some cases a series of candidate elements may be provided perhaps in prioritized order based on the automated analysis of the image. In other cases the image may be provided to a human operator with one or more suspect areas each of which might be a possible match for one or more candidate elements highlighted for example by overlaying a frame around the suspect area s in the image etc.

Further an interface such as a web interface etc. may be provided to a customer who might be an owner of a trademark etc. a proprietor of an online auction site etc. to allow the customer to view results of monitoring and or analysis operations and or to select one or more desired responses. Examples of similar interfaces are described in detail in the Anti Fraud Applications.

One set of embodiments provides methods for analyzing a web site to determine whether that web site is likely to be engaged in fraud and or other illegitimate practices based in some cases on an analysis of one or more images served by that web site. Merely by way of example the Anti Fraud Applications disclose methods of analyzing a web site including text on web pages served by that site to determine whether the site is fraudulent and one factor in such a determination is whether a site uses trademarks or other words to mislead a user into thinking that the web site is affiliated with a trusted company. For instance a web page might say Welcome to Bank X when in fact the web page is not affiliated with Bank X but instead is an attempt to spoof users into revealing their login credentials for Bank X. An anti fraud tool might analyze such text in determining whether the web site is likely to be fraudulent. Knowing this however many spoof sites have begun to rely on images rather than text to imitate trusted web sites. These images might contain text and or graphics. Embodiments of the present invention provide a way to analyze such images in similar fashion to the way text has been analyzed in the past.

As another example a site selling counterfeit and or unauthorized goods might employ the logo of a manufacturer of the goods being counterfeited and or sold without authorization . Embodiments of the present invention can be used to identify such logos by correlating the web site against a list of authorized sellers it can be determined whether or not the web site is selling legitimate goods.

Similarly another potential use of the image analysis tools provided by the present invention is in the detection and or investigation of trademark infringement. Merely by way of example U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 612 766 entitled Method and System for Searching and Monitoring Internet Trademark Usage and filed Jul. 10 2000 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes and which is referred to herein as the Trademark Tracking Application describes various tools that can be used inter alia to search for and or analyze potential infringing uses of a trademark. Such tools can be enhanced by embodiments of the present invention to facilitate the analysis of non textual trademarks such as logos and the like.

Another set of embodiments provides more generalized methods of analyzing images. Such methods can be used for example to analyze images in electronic mail messages to determine for instance whether a particular message might be spam and or a phishing attempt.

Hence various embodiments of the invention rely on the analysis of images. Accordingly illustrates a method of analyzing an image. This method can be used inter alia to determine whether the image is involved in illegitimate activity such as online fraud trademark infringement and or misuse and the like. The method comprises maintaining a database of elements of interest block .

As used herein the term element of interest means an image or any part thereof that might be of interest in analyzing suspect images. Merely by way of example in some cases an element of interest might be a logo or portion thereof that is deemed worthy of protection and or likely to be used illegitimately for example in an online fraud operation . For instance embodiments of the invention might be operated by a security provider and a customer of that provider might have one or more corporate logos that the customer wishes to protect from infringement and or use in online fraud operations. Those logos and or portions thereof therefore might be treated as elements of interest. Other elements of interest might include any images including images that represent text that might be useful in determining whether a particular suspect image might be related to an illegitimate online activity including without limitation the names logos etc. of various online banks online auction houses e commerce providers and or any other entities that might be useful for fraudsters to spoof in order to gain illegitimate access to the confidential information of users of those services. It should be noted that not only graphic images can be elements of interest. As explained in more detail below a string of text which might be converted into an image can also serve as an element of interest. In some embodiments elements of interest are used as described herein as templates against which suspect images are compared to determine whether the suspect image.

The database of elements of interest might comprise rather than or in addition to the images themselves representations of the images. For example as described in further detail below embodiments of the invention are configured to quantify the image along various parameters or dimensions and these quantified values can be used to create a fingerprint of an image. These fingerprints of the elements of interest can be considered templates against which a quantified representation of a suspect image can be compared in accordance with various embodiments of the invention.

At block the method comprises obtaining a suspect image. In some cases a suspect image might be downloaded and or referenced by from a web site suspected of engaging in illegitimate activities. In other cases a suspect image might be obtained as part of an email message suspected of being spam and or a phish message. Various fraud detection systems such as those disclosed in the Anti Fraud Applications and or described with respect to below provide a variety of tools including honeypots web crawlers and other tools which might be the source of images to be analyzed. Any of such tools can be used to obtain suspect images for analysis and based on the disclosure herein one skilled in the art can appreciate that there are a wide variety of ways in which a suspect image may be obtained. Hence many embodiments of the invention do not depend on how the suspect image is obtained.

At block the suspect image is analyzed. Various tools for analyzing an image are possible and a few such tools are described in detail below. The method then might comprise identifying one or more images from the database of elements of interest that match the suspect image block . In other words it is determined whether the suspect image or a portion thereof matches any of the elements of interest stored in the database. One process for making this determination is described in further detail below.

 It is noted that this document occasionally refers to an image whether as a suspect image an element of interest etc. It should be understood that in referring to an image this document means an image and or one or more portions thereof. For example as described in further detail below a single image might comprise a plurality of elements that might be analyzed and or quantified separately. In the simplest case an image might comprise a corporate logo as well as a string of text. In certain embodiments the logo and the text might be considered to be and or analyzed as two separate elements or effectively two separate images. Of course the entire image might simultaneously be considered to be a single element as well. 

Based at least in part on whether the image matches any of the candidate elements it can be determined whether the image is likely to be part of an illegitimate activity such as possible online fraud trademark infringement and or the like block . In some cases this might include determining whether a web site associated with the suspect image is part of an illegitimate online activity. In some cases the analysis of the image standing alone might be sufficient to inform this determination. In other cases additional analysis of the web site such as that described in the Anti Fraud Applications might be used in making such a determination.

If it is determined that the image is likely to be part of an illegitimate activity an appropriate response might be undertaken block . A variety of responses are possible including farther investigation and or monitoring of a web site notifying one or more users who might be administrators of the system victims of the illegitimate activity perpetrators of the illegitimate activity etc. about the illegitimate activity and or the fact that it has been detected notifying authorities about the illegitimate activity and or various technical responses. Merely by way of example the Anti Fraud Applications disclose several possible responses to suspected online fraud and any of those responses can be implemented in conjunction with various embodiments of the invention.

The functionality in accordance with some embodiments of the image prepocessing and segmentation component a fingerprint generation component and a fingerprint matching component each will be described in respective detail below but in a general sense as noted above a system employing the graphics recognition engine may be configured to operate in accordance with the method of . When a suspect image is provided as input to the system for example after being obtained as described above the preprocessing and segmentation component segments the image block for example by extracting the image s edges a blobmap and a series of blobs which might be described by their rectangular boundaries and characteristics . The fingerprint generation component then generates fingerprints for the blobs block using the image edges blobmap and blob boundaries . Optionally the blobs characteristics are then used to identify from the database of image templates one or more candidate fingerprints with similar characteristics block e.g. similar aspect ratios similar normalized areas etc. . By culling the entire database of image templates to a list of candidate images the cost of the fingerprint matching stage described below can be minimized. Accordingly a list of candidate elements each corresponding to an identified candidate fingerprint is collected block .

The blob fingerprints and characteristics are fed into the fingerprint matching component along with the candidate fingerprints and their characteristics . The fingerprint matching component then assigns a score to each of the candidate elements block based on the similarity between the candidate fingerprints and characteristics and the blob fingerprints and characteristics . Based on this scoring procedure one or more candidate elements are determined to be likely matches for the suspect image block .

Optionally the method might include providing feedback about likely matches block . This can include merely by way of example providing images of the likely matches for a user providing a list of likely matches based on element descriptors described in further detail below for example . This feedback can be provided in a variety of ways including without limitation by displaying the feedback on a display by emailing the feedback by creating an event in an event manager described in further detail below regarding the results of the image analysis and or the like.

In a set of embodiments upon receiving an input image the image segmentation and preprocessing component converts the image to a grayscale block which can facilitate image matching by removing chromatic details which generally are unnecessary to determining image similarity. The converted image is then passed through a filter stage block which can serve to reduce the effect of noise during gradient estimation discussed below and thereby provide greater accuracy in locating edge images. In some embodiments the filter stage employs a Gaussian low pass filter. At this point X horizontal and Y vertical tonal derivatives i.e. derivatives that measure tonal changes along the X and Y axes respectively are computed block which allows the image segmentation and preprocessing component to determine a measure of the tonal gradient magnitudes block . These gradients effectively reveal sharp transitions in the image. A thresholding algorithm block and non maximal suppression block are applied to allow further definition of edge boundaries based on the gradient magnitudes.

At this point an edge following algorithm is applied to the enhanced image block to find the edge images for shapes or regions within the image. A region growing stage block is then used expand the edge image in order to join pixels that should belong to the same blob. This process produces a blobmap of all of the identified blobs in the image and their respective positions. In an aspect of some embodiments blocks can be considered components of an edge detector.

This blobmap is provided to a blob segmentation function block is used to differentiate between various blobs that have been identified. The blob segmentation function in an embodiment is a recursive search similar to a flood fill algorithm familiar to those skilled in the art. The blob segmentation function provides a series of boundaries which again are rectangular boundaries in an aspect of some embodiments for the blobs identified in the image. It should be noted that some of the blob boundaries might be overlapping. Hence in some cases a blob merging function block can be used to merge blobs that are in close proximity and or overlap basically to account for the fact that two or more identified blobs might in reality be parts of a single blob . It should be noted at this point that blobs need not be mutually exclusive. Merely by way of example in some cases an image might comprise three blobs Blob A Blob B and Blob C which is the union of Blob A and Blob B.

A blob characterization function block then computes outputs the identified boundaries of the various identified blobs as described above for example as well as the blob characteristics . In a set of embodiments the blob characteristics might comprise a plurality of measures. Two exemplary measures are the aspect ratio of the blob which is basically the X Y ratio of the blob s rectangular boundaries i.e. the ratio of the width of the blob to the height of the blob and the normalized area of the blob which is a scale independent measure of the blob s area. As noted below various embodiments employ normalization of dimensions to account for the fact that the same image might be scaled differently in various permutations. The normalized area might be derived from the number of pixels that constitute blob and or the dimensions of the blob s rectangular boundaries.

As noted above with respect to once a suspect image has been preprocessed the fingerprinting component can be used to generate fingerprints for each of the blobs contained in a suspect image. provides an illustration of the functionality of the fingerprinting component in accordance with one set of embodiments. As input the fingerprinting stage accepts a set of attributes for a blob which might comprise a set of edge images for the blob a blobmap and or a set of blob boundaries which can be generated for example as described above.

Based on these blob attributes the fingerprinting stage calculates a number of descriptive features that can be used to characterize the blob. These descriptive features are referred to herein as fingerprint signals. . These fingerprint signals in most cases can be calculated based on the blob edge images characteristics and or boundaries as well as in some cases the blobmap itself. Examples of fingerprint signals that can be calculated for a blob in accordance with various embodiments include without limitation an X projection value i.e. the projection of the blob along a horizontal axis or the width of the blob a Mean Y value i.e. the center height of the blob along the horizontal axis a standard deviation for the Y values i.e. the blob s vertical spread around its center height along the horizontal axis a top edge value i.e. the top most edge of the blob along the horizontal axis a bottom edge value i.e. the bottom most edge of the blob along the horizontal axis a transition value i.e. the number of occurrences of vertical transitions or height differences along the horizontal axis of the blob . In some embodiments a binary template of the edges that define the blob is another possible fingerprint signal. Basically the binary template is a digitized representation of the outline of the blob itself. In a particular embodiment for example a blob s binary template is a relatively low resolution bitmap of the blob s edges e.g. at a color depth of 1 bit with a height of 8 pixels and a variable width to name one example .

Some or all of these calculated values might be subjected to signal conditioning to further refine the calculated values. It should be noted that different types of signal conditioning might be applied depending on the type of value. Merely by way of example the chart below describes some exemplary signal conditioning processes that may be applied to each of the fingerprint signals described above.

One skilled in the art will appreciate based on the disclosure herein that there are a variety of different types of signal conditioning available and that the operations described above like the types of fingerprint signals themselves are merely exemplary in natures. As a general matter however certain types of signal conditioning will be applied. Merely by way of example for calculating dimensions such as the X projection Y mean and the like some sort of normalization generally will be applied to account for the fact that suspect images might be scaled differently i.e. larger or smaller than the candidate images to which they are being compared. The low pass filter serves to reduce the effects of noise in the fingerprint signals and or the effects of local scale variation. The 8 bit quantization can be used to reduce memory and or processing overhead which can allow for more efficient processing and or storage of fingerprints. Based on the disclosure herein one skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of signal conditioning operations may be used and those conditions described herein are merely exemplary in nature. These perhaps conditioned values are then accumulated into a composite fingerprint for the blob .

The process described above for generating a fingerprint can be iterated as necessary for each blob in an image. A similar procedure can be used for generating fingerprints of images of interest i.e. candidate image templates . In an aspect of some embodiments each candidate blob is considered individually without regarding to other blobs that might be present in an image of interest. Conversely in some embodiments multiple candidate blobs in a particular image of interest might be considered collectively.

Once a fingerprint has been generated for a blob in a suspect image that fingerprint can be compared with other blob fingerprints as mentioned briefly above. This process as well can be repeated for each blob in a suspect image. Specifically in a set of embodiments each blob fingerprint from a suspect image is compared against some or all of the image templates in the database to determine whether the blob is a likely match for any of the image templates.

Hence provides a detailed illustration of the operation of one set of embodiments of the fingerprint matching stage of the graphics recognition engine which can be used to perform fingerprint comparisons. The fingerprint matching stage takes as input a blob descriptor comprising a set of blob characteristics and a blob fingerprint which might comprise a set of fingerprint signals as described above for example for a suspect blob as well as a blob descriptor again comprising a set of characteristics and fingerprint for a candidate blob the blob descriptor for the candidate blob might be incorporated within an image template for a candidate image . The generation of the suspect blob characteristics is described above with respect to while the generation of the suspect blob fingerprint is described above with respect to . As noted above similar processes can be used to generate the components of the candidate template including the characteristics and fingerprint of the candidate blob. Candidate templates are stored in a database of image templates perhaps using a process described in further detail below with respect to .

The fingerprint of the suspect blob as well as the fingerprint of the candidate blob are provided to a sampling function which in some cases is a non linear resampling function. One skilled in the art will appreciate based on the disclosure herein that a non linear resampling mode can be used to infer the proper amount of resampling required. In many cases resampling is helpful because it can be used to account for warping and other scale deviations such as those that can result from the use of different but perhaps similar fonts . The sampling function operates on the respective characteristics fingerprint signals of the suspect blob and the candidate blob. The sampling function effectively aligns the features of the two blobs being compared. One way of achieving this is for the sampling function to align one or more anchor points in the transition fingerprint signals of the respective blobs perhaps using local correlation coefficient measures. Once the blobs have been aligned the resampling module can create piece wise linear resampling scales for each of the two blobs. Hence in a particular set of embodiments a set of resampling scales can be inferred and those scales can be used to calculate similarity measures for a number of different fingerprint signals as described further below.

Merely by way of example the correlation coefficient between the respective X projection signals of the suspect blob and the candidate blob can be used to calculate a similarity measure for the X projection signals. As another example a cross correlation between the respective Y mean signals for each blob can be used to derive a similarity measure for the Y mean signals. The similarity measures for the X projection and Y mean both can benefit through the use of the inferred non linear resampling scales.

Out of sample differences for Y standard deviation top edge and bottom edge can be used to derive similarity measures and respectively for these fingerprint signals. The derivation of these measures can employ both non linear resampling and normalization to account for inter alia scale differences between the blobs being compared. Somewhat similarly out of sample differences can be used to derive a similarity measure for the transition signals. In an embodiment the scaling of the out of sample differences is relative to the transition signals themselves since unlike some of the other fingerprint signals the transition signals convey morphological information e.g. image edge counts that do not scale with the blob s size. Hence when comparing two aligned sample values from two transition signals the system can take into account the number of edges that are expected locally and scale the sample difference accordingly.

The binary templates of the respective blobs can also be compared. Merely by way of example after non linear resampling using the inferred resampling scales noted above the respective binary templates of the respective blobs can be compared bit for bit leading to an out of bit error rate which can be used to generate a template similarity measure

These derived similarity measures can be provided as input to a confidence mapping function . The confidence mapping function scores the similarity measures according to a weighing system to come up with a weighted average of the similarity measures from which a composite similarity score can be derived. The relative weighting to give to each of the similarity measures is discretionary and in many cases it will be determined experimentally e.g. by iteratively performing a human comparison of two images or blobs and then generating a composite similarity score using different weightings and then by selecting the weighting that produces composite similarity scores across a number of image comparisons closest to the human determination . Merely by way of example the table below lists the composite weight assigned to each similarity measure in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

Hence in a set of embodiments the similarity measure for a particular fingerprint signal is multiplied by its composite weight and the sum of each of these products is used as the composite similarity score . In a set of embodiments the similarity measures for each fingerprint signal are normalized by design such that each can be compared individually as mentioned below and so that the composite weights assigned represent an absolute weighting that is not affected by disparate scaling among different similarity measures. 

Further in some embodiments the fingerprint comparison stage calculates similarity measures for the aspect ratio of each blob and the normalized area of each blob based on the respective characteristics of the suspect blob and the candidate blob. In both cases the similarity measure is calculated from the ratio of the minimum value over the maximum value. Hence for each blob the suspect and the candidate a minimum maximum aspect ratio is calculated and a minimum maximum normalized area ratio is calculated. From these values respectively a similarity measure can be determined for both the aspect ratio and the normalized area . Merely by way of example the similarity measure for the aspect ratio AR might be calculated thus 

It should be noted that while the illustrated embodiment does not consider the similarity scores for the aspect ratio signal or the normalized area signal in calculating the composite similarity score in other embodiments one or both of those scores might be considered. Similarly in other embodiments one or more of the similarity scores for the other signals might be ignored and or other similarity scores not discussed herein might be used.

In a set of embodiments in addition to considering the composite similarity score the fingerprint matching component will also consider some or all of the similarity measures individually. Specifically a minimum value from all of the similarity scores is used to determine an overall minimum individual similarity score .

Then in a set of embodiments the composite similarity score and or the minimum individual similarity score are compared with a threshold to determine whether the suspect image is a likely match with any of the candidate images. In a particular set of embodiments both the composite similarity score and the minimum individual similarity score must each exceed a specified threshold there may be different thresholds for each similarity score or the candidate image that is the subject of the comparison will be discarded. Further in some embodiments when determining a best match for a suspect blob from among a plurality of candidates that exceed the minimum threshold the candidate image with the highest composite similarity score can be considered the best match.

The image preprocessing and segmentation stage also produces a set of blob characteristics again in a manner similar to that described above. The fingerprints for each of the blobs along with their associated characteristics together with an optional element descriptor which can be used to provide a descriptive label for the blob and or image such as Bank X logo etc. make up the image template for an element of interest A plurality of such image templates can be indexed block and then stored in the image template database using any of a variety of well known database storage techniques.

As noted above the graphics recognition engine can be implemented within a variety of computer systems. Merely by way of example a fraud monitoring system such as the system of can employ the graphics recognition engine either as a standalone component or as an integrated component within another element of the system as well as various methods of the invention to help identify monitor and or remedy illegitimate online activities for example as described above. Various other systems described in the Anti Fraud Applications the Trust Applications and the Trademark Tracking Application can also implement the graphics recognition engine and or various methods of the present invention. Merely by way of example the graphics recognition engine and or any of its components can provide an application programming interface API that can be called or otherwise implemented by other system components. Alternatively and or additionally the graphics recognition engine can be implemented as a standalone application a COM object a dynamic link library and or the like for analyzing images in a variety of contexts.

Hence illustrates the functional elements of an exemplary system that can be used to combat online fraud in accordance with some of these embodiments and provides a general overview of how certain embodiments can operate. It should be noted that the functional architecture depicted by and the procedures described with respect to each functional component are provided for purposes of illustration only and that embodiments of the invention are not necessarily limited to a particular functional or structural architecture the various procedures discussed herein may be performed in any suitable framework.

In many cases the system of may be operated by a fraud prevention service security service etc. referred to herein as a fraud prevention provider for one or more customers. Often the customers will be entities with products brands and or web sites that risk being imitated counterfeited and or spoofed such as online merchants financial institutions businesses etc. In other cases however the fraud prevention provider may be an employee of the customer an or an entity affiliated with and or incorporated within the customer such as the customer s security department information services department etc.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the system can include and or have access to a variety of data sources . Although the data sources are depicted for ease of illustration as part of system those skilled in the art will appreciate based on the disclosure herein that the data sources often are maintained independently by third parties and or may be accessed by the system . In some cases certain of the data sources may be mirrored and or copied locally as appropriate e.g. for easier access by the system .

The data sources can comprise any source from which data about a possible online fraud may be obtained including without limitation one or more chat rooms newsgroup feeds domain registration files and or email feeds . The system can use information obtained from any of the data sources to detect an instance of online fraud and or to enhance the efficiency and or effectiveness of the fraud prevention methodology discussed herein. In some cases the system and or components thereof can be configured to crawl e.g. to automatically access and or download information from various of the data sources to find pertinent information perhaps on a scheduled basis e.g. once every 80 minutes once per day once per week etc. .

Merely by way of example there are several newsgroups commonly used to discuss new spamming spoofing schemes as well as to trade lists of harvested email addresses. There are also anti abuse newsgroups that track such schemes. The system may be configured to crawl any applicable newsgroup s to find information about new spoof scams new lists of harvested addresses new sources for harvested addresses etc. In some cases the system may be configured to search for specified keywords such as phish spoof etc. in such crawling. In other cases newsgroups may be scanned for URLs which may be download or copied and subjected to further analysis for instance as described in detail below. In addition as noted above there may be one or more anti abuse groups that can be monitored. Such anti abuse newsgroups often list new scams that have been discovered and or provide URLs for such scams. Thus such anti abuse groups may be monitored crawled e.g. in the way described above to find relevant information which may then be subjected to further analysis. Any other data source including for example web pages and or entire web sites email messages etc. may be crawled and or searched in a similar manner.

As another example online chat rooms including without limitation Internet Relay Chat IRC channels chat rooms maintained hosted by various ISPs such as Yahoo America Online etc. and or the like e.g. may be monitored and or logs from such chat rooms may be crawled for pertinent information. In some cases an automated process known in the art as a bot may be used for this purpose. In other cases however a human attendant may monitor such chat rooms personally. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that often such chat rooms require participation to maintain access privileges. In some cases therefore either a bot or a human attendant may post entries to such chat rooms in order to be seen as a contributor.

Domain registration zone files and or any other sources of domain and or network information such as Internet registry e.g. ARIN may also be used as data sources. As those skilled in the art will appreciate zone files are updated periodically e.g. hourly or daily to reflect new domain registrations. These files may be crawled scanned periodically to look for new domain registrations. In particular embodiments a zone file may be scanned for registrations similar to a customer s name and or domain. Merely by way of example the system can be configured to search for similar domains registration with a different top level domain TLD or global top level domain gTLD and or a domains with similar spellings. Thus if a customer uses the domain the registration of and or might be of interest as potential hosts for spoof sites and domain registrations for such domains could be downloaded and or noted for further analysis of the domains to which the registrations correspond. In some embodiments if a suspicious domain is found that domain may be placed on a monitoring list. Domains on the monitoring list may be monitored periodically as described in further detail below to determine whether the domain has become live e.g. whether there is an accessible web page associated with the domain .

One or more email feeds can provide additional data sources for the system . An email feed can be any source of email messages including spam messages as described above. Indeed a single incoming email message may be considered an email feed in accordance with some embodiments. In some cases for instance as described in more detail below bait email addresses may be seeded or planted by embodiments of the invention and or these planted addresses can provide a source of email i.e. an email feed . The system therefore can include an address planter which can be used to plant email addresses as bait for phishing attacks which can provide one type of email feed.

Other email feeds can include but are not limited to messages received directly from spammers phishers email forwarded from users ISPs and or any other source based perhaps on a suspicion that the email is a spam and or phish email forwarded from mailing lists including without limitation anti abuse mailing lists etc. When an email message which might be a spam message is received by the system that message can be analyzed to determine whether it is part of a phishing spoofing scheme. The analysis of information received from any of these data feeds is described in further detail below and it often includes an evaluation of whether a web site often referenced by a URL or other information received downloaded from a data source is likely to be engaged in a phishing and or spoofing scam.

Any email message incoming to the system can be analyzed according to various methods of the invention including without limitation the analysis of any images contained in the email message using the graphics recognition engine and or associated methods described above for example. As those skilled in the art will appreciate there is a vast quantity of unsolicited email traffic on the Internet and many of those messages may be of interest in the online fraud context. Merely by way of example some email messages may be transmitted as part of a phishing scam described in more detail herein. Other messages may solicit customers for black and or grey market goods such as pirated software counterfeit designer items including without limitation watches handbags etc. . Still other messages may be advertisements for legitimate goods but may comprise unlawful or otherwise forbidden e.g. by contract practices such as improper trademark use and or infringement deliberate under pricing of goods etc. Various embodiments of the invention can be configured to search for identify and or respond to one or more of these practices as detailed below. It should be noted as well that certain embodiments may be configured to access monitor crawl etc. data sources including zone files web sites chat rooms etc. other than email feeds for similar conduct . Merely by way of example the system could be configured to scan one or more data sources for the term ROLEX and or identify any improper advertisements for ROLEX watches. Similarly the system could be configured to analyze images in one or more data sources for similarity to the ROLEX logo.

Those skilled in the art will further appreciate that an average email address will receive many unsolicited email messages and the system may be configured as described below to receive and or analyze such messages. Incoming messages may be received in many ways. Merely by way of example some messages might be received randomly in that no action is taken to prompt the messages. Alternatively one or more users may forward such messages to the system. Merely by way of example an ISP might instruct its users to forward all unsolicited messages to a particular address which could be monitored by the system as described below or might automatically forward copies of users incoming messages to such an address. In particular embodiments an ISP might forward suspicious messages transmitted to its users and or parts of such suspicious messages including for example any URLs included in such messages to the system and or any appropriate component thereof on a periodic basis. In some cases the ISP might have a filtering system designed to facilitate this process and or certain features of the system might be implemented and or duplicated within the ISP s system.

As described above the system can also plant or seed bait email addresses and or other bait information in certain of the data sources e.g. for harvesting by spammers phishers. In general these bait email addresses are designed to offer an attractive target to a harvester of email addresses and the bait email addresses usually but not always will be generated specifically for the purpose of attracting phishers and therefore will not be used for normal email correspondence.

The system can further include a honey pot . The honey pot can be used to receive information from each of the data sources and or to correlate that information for further analysis if needed. The honey pot can receive such information in a variety of ways according to various embodiments of the invention and how the honey pot receives the information is discretionary.

Merely by way of example the honey pot may but need not be used to do the actual crawling monitoring of the data sources as described above. In some cases one or more other computers programs may be used to do the actual crawling monitoring operations and or may transmit to the honey pot any relevant information obtained through such operations. For instance a process might be configured to monitor zone files and transmit to the honey pot for analysis any new lapsed and or otherwise modified domain registrations. Alternatively a zone file can be fed as input to the honey pot and or the honey pot can be used to search for any modified domain registrations. The honey pot may also be configured to receive email messages which might be forwarded from another recipient and or to monitor one or more bait email addresses for incoming email. In particular embodiments the system may be configured such that the honey pot is the mail server for one or more email addresses which may be bait addresses so that all mail addressed to such addresses is sent directly to the honey pot . The honey pot therefore can comprise a device and or software that functions to receive email messages such as an SMTP server etc. and or retrieve email messages such as a POP3 and or IMAP client etc. addressed to the bait email addresses. Such devices and software are well known in the art and need not be discussed in detail herein. In accordance with various embodiments the honey pot can be configured to receive any or all of a variety of well known message formats including SMTP MIME HTML RTF SMS and or the like. The honey pot may also comprise one or more databases and or other data structures which can be used to hold categorize information obtained from email messages and other data such as zone files etc. as well as from crawling monitoring operations.

In some aspects the honey pot might be configured to do some preliminary categorization and or filtration of received data including without limitation received email messages . In particular embodiments for example the honey pot can be configured to search received data for blacklisted words or phrases and or images. The concept of a blacklist is described in further detail in the Anti Fraud Applications . The honey pot can segregate data messages containing such blacklisted terms for prioritized processing etc. and or filter data messages based on these or other criteria.

The honey pot also may be configured to operate in accordance with a customer policy . An exemplary customer policy might instruct the honey pot to watch for certain types and or formats of emails including for instance to search for certain keywords allowing for customization on a customer by customer basis. In addition the honey pot may utilize extended monitoring options including monitoring for other conditions such as monitoring a customer s web site for compromises etc. The honey pot upon receiving a message optionally can convert the email message into a data file.

In some embodiments the honey pot will be in communication with one or more correlation engines which can perform a more detailed analysis of the email messages and or other information data such as information received from crawling monitoring operations received by the honey pot . In a particular aspect for example a correlation engine can implement and or have access to a graphics recognition such as that described above for analyzing images. It should be noted however that the assignment of functions herein to various components such as honey pots correlation engines etc. is arbitrary and in accordance with some embodiments certain components may embody the functionality ascribed to other components. 

On a periodic basis and or as incoming messages information are received retrieved by the honey pot the honey pot will transmit the received retrieved email messages and or corresponding data files to an available correlation engine for analysis. Alternatively each correlation engine may be configured to periodically retrieve messages data files from the honey pot e.g. using a scheduled FTP process etc. . For example in certain implementations the honey pot may store email messages and or other data which may or may not be categorized filtered as described above and each correlation engine may retrieve data an or messages on a periodic and or ad hoc basis. For instance when a correlation engine has available processing capacity e.g. it has finished processing any data messages in its queue it might download the next one hundred messages data files etc. from the honeypot for processing. In accordance with certain embodiments various correlation engines e.g. may be specifically configured to process certain types of data e.g. domain registrations email etc. . In other embodiments all correlation engines may be configured to process any available data and or the plurality of correlation engines e.g. can be implemented to take advantage of the enhanced efficiency of parallel processing.

The correlation engine s can analyze the data including merely by way of example email messages to determine whether any of the messages received by the honey pot are phish messages and or are likely to evidence a fraudulent attempt to collect personal information. In particular the correlation engine s can analyze any images provided with the data in accordance with methods of the invention.

The correlation engine can be in communication an event manager which may also be in communication with a monitoring center . Alternatively the correlation engine may also be in direct communication with the monitoring center . In particular embodiments the event manager may be a computer and or software application which can be accessible by a technician in the monitoring center . If the correlation engine determines that a particular incoming email message is a likely candidate for fraudulent activity or that information obtained through crawling monitoring operations may indicate fraudulent activity the correlation engine can signal to the event manager that an event should be created for the email message. In particular embodiments the correlation engine and or event manager can be configured to communicate using the Simple Network Management SNMP protocol well known in the art and the correlation engine s signal can comprise an SNMP trap indicating that analyzed message s and or data have indicated a possible fraudulent event that should be investigated further. In response to the signal e.g. SNMP trap the event manager can create an event which may comprise an SNMP event or may be of a proprietary format .

Upon the creation of an event the event manager can commence an intelligence gathering operation investigation of the message information and or any URLs included in and or associated with message information. As described in detail below the investigation can include gathering information about the domain and or IP address associated with the URLs as well as interrogating the server s hosting the resources e.g. web page etc. referenced by the URLs. As used herein the term server is sometimes used as the context indicates any computer system that is capable of offering IP based services or conducting online transactions in which personal information may be exchanged and specifically a computer system that may be engaged in the fraudulent collection of personal information such as by serving web pages that request personal information. The most common example of such a server therefore is a web server that operates using the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP and or any of several related services although in some cases servers may provide other services such as database services etc. . In certain embodiments if a single email message or information file includes multiple URLs a separate event may be created for each URL in other cases a single event may cover all of the URLs in a particular message. If the message and or investigation indicates that the event relates to a particular customer the event may be associated with that customer.

The event manager can also prepare an automated report and or cause another process such as a reporting module not shown to generate a report which may be analyzed by an additional technician at the monitoring center or any other location for that matter for the event the report can include a summary of the investigation and or any information obtained by the investigation. In some embodiments the process may be completely automated so that no human analysis is necessary. If desired and perhaps as indicated by the customer policy the event manager can automatically create a customer notification informing the affected customer of the event. The customer notification can comprise some or all of the information from the report . Alternatively the customer notification can merely notify the customer of an event e.g. via email telephone pager etc. allowing a customer to access a copy of the report e.g. via a web browser client application etc. . Customers may also view events of interest to the using a portal such as a dedicated web site that shows events involving that customer e.g. where the event involves a fraud using the customer s trademarks products business identity etc. .

If the inventigation reveals that the server referenced by the URL is involved in a fraudulent attempt to collect personal information the technician may initiate an interdiction response also referred to herein as a technical response . Alternatively the event manager could be configured to initiate a response automatically without intervention by the technician . Depending on the circumstances and the embodiment a variety of responses could be appropriate. For instance those skilled in the art will recognize that in some cases a server can be compromised i.e. hacked in which case the server is executing applications and or providing services not under the control of the operator of the server. As used in this context the term operator means an entity that owns maintains and or otherwise is responsible for the server. If the investigation reveals that the server appears to be compromised such that the operator of the server is merely an unwitting victim and not a participant in the fraudulent scheme the appropriate response could simply comprise informing the operator of the server that the server has been compromised and perhaps explaining how to repair any vulnerabilities that allowed the compromise.

In other cases other responses may be more appropriate. Such responses can be classified generally as either administrative or technical in nature as described more fully below. In some cases the system may include a dilution engine not shown which can be used to undertake technical responses as described more fully below. In some embodiments the dilution engine may be a software application running on a computer and configured inter alia to create and or format responses to a phishing scam in accordance with methods of the invention. The dilution engine may reside on the same computer as and or be incorporated in a correlation engine event manager etc. and or may reside on a separate computer which may be in communication with any of these components.

As described above in some embodiments the system may incorporate a feedback process to facilitate a determination of which planting locations techniques are relatively more effective at generating spam. Merely by way of example the system can include an address planter which may provide a mechanism for tracking information about planted addresses as described above. Correspondingly the event manager may be configured to analyze an email message and particular a message resulting in an event to determine if the message resulted from a planting operation. For instance the addressees of the message may be evaluated to determine which if any correspond to one or more address es planted by the system . If it is determined that the message does correspond to one or more planted addresses a database of planted addresses may be consulted to determine the circumstances of the planting and the system might display this information for a technician. In this way a technician could choose to plant additional addresses in fruitful locations. Alternatively the system could be configured to provide automatic feedback to the address planter which in turn could be configured to automatically plant additional addresses in such locations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the invention therefore a set of data about a possible online fraud which may be an email message domain registration URL and or any other relevant data about an online fraud including images contained in various web pages email messages and or the like may be received and analyzed to determine the existence of a fraudulent activity an example of which may be a phishing scheme. If so any relevant email message URL web site etc. may be investigated and or responsive action may be taken.

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device and or the like a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. . The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs of the invention and or may be designed to implement methods of the invention as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer . A set of these instructions might be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such that the instructions when executed by the computer system perform the procedures of the method s . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. such that the storage medium can be used to program a generic computer with the instructions stored thereon.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

A set of embodiments comprises systems for analyzing images including the analysis of images in various contexts such as in detecting online fraud evaluating web sites and or email messages and the like . Merely by way of example illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers . The user computers can be general purpose personal computers including merely by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of Microsoft Corp. s Windows and or Apple Corp. s Macintosh operating systems and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. These user computers can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform methods of the invention as well as one or more office applications database client and or server applications and web browser applications. Alternatively the user computers can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or displaying and navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with three user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments of the invention operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN including without limitation an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments of the invention can include one or more server computers . Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers may be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers . The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform methods of the invention.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one ore more file and or application servers which can include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods of the invention . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with embodiments of the invention such as providing output from image analysis operations for monitoring anti fraud operations and or the like. Data provided by an application server may be formatted as web pages comprising HTML JavaScript etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files necessary to implement methods of the invention incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server . It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases . The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server and or a user computer . Alternatively and or additionally a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as it can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments a database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example. In particular embodiments the database server might be configured with DBMS software and or storage management software.

While the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize based on the disclosure herein that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods of the invention are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while various functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with different embodiments of the invention.

Moreover while the procedures comprised in the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary features the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

