---

title: Kit and system for providing security access to a door using power over ethernet with data persistence and fire alarm control panel integration
abstract: The present disclosure describes embodiments of a power-over-ethernet (“POE”) controller and an access control system comprising the same. In an embodiment, the access control system includes a POE controller configured to couple with a Fire Access Control Panel of an automated Fire Detection System. The access control system may further include one or more peripheral devices coupled with the POE controller and configured to be powered with electrical power received via an ethernet port of the POE controller. The peripheral devices may include an access device, a door strike, and a digital output device. Embodiments of a kit containing one or more partially or fully assembled components of the access control system are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08207814&OS=08207814&RS=08207814
owner: UTC Fire & Security Americas Corporation, Inc.
number: 08207814
owner_city: Bradenton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070309
---
The present disclosure relates to security systems generally and more particularly to a kit a power over ethernet system and an apparatus for controlling access to one or more doors.

Access control systems are used to prevent rooms or other areas from being visited by unauthorized persons. Such systems typically include an electrically operated door strike an access device and a controller configured to operate the door strike and the access device. However one or more external power supplies and multiple wire connections are required which makes installing such systems costly and time consuming.

The access control system uses at least two power supplies. One power supply which converts 110 VAC PWR to 12 VDC PWR powers the controller . Another power supply which converts 110 VAC PWR to 12 24 VAC VDC PWR powers other components of the access control system and or the controller .

A junction box is connected via a wire to the controller via a wire to the power supply and via a wire to an exit device . The junction box is further connected via a wire to the door strike via a wire to the access control reader and via a wire to a door sensor . The door sensor is configured to detect whether the door is open or closed and to relay this information to the controller .

Access control systems and automated fire detection systems are not typically interlinked. Consequently emergency personnel responding to a detected fire are sometimes not able to manually override an access control system that has automatically locked one or more doors e.g. has failed secure .

What is needed is an access control system having a controller an access device and a door strike that operate using electrical power provided via an ethernet port of the controller e.g. an access control system that does not require external power supplies to be installed for each system component . What is also needed is an access control system having a power over ethernet POE controller having a Fire Alarm Control Panel FACP connector and a FACP circuit that is configured to override the POE controller and de latch a door strike when the Fire Alarm Control Panel is in an alarm condition.

In summary embodiments of the invention are configured to provide distributed processing for an interface of access devices keypads alarm inputs and outputs and the like back to a host system computer. In an embodiment of the invention an apparatus may comprise a controller configured to receive electrical power over an ethernet connection. The controller may comprise a printed circuit board PCB configured as herein described and shown that is protected by a tamper proof enclosure. The controller may further comprise an ethernet port. The PCB may be configured to deliver and or transform all or a portion of electrical power received via the controller s ethernet port over a previously established ethernet communications path to components of the controller and or to one or more peripheral devices coupled with the controller. The controller and or the peripheral devices may each also comprise a back up power source such as a battery a solar cell a fuel cell etc. Non limiting examples of a peripheral device may include an access device a door strike and the like. Non limiting examples of an access device may include an access control reader a keypad a biometric identification device and the like.

The distributed processing afforded by embodiments of the invention advantageously allows the power over ethernet POE controller and an access device and electric door strike coupled therewith to operate independently of a host system computer and to make access control and alarm monitoring decisions locally. In an embodiment the access control and alarm monitoring decisions are made locally using information contained in a database that is stored in a memory of the controller. The database and or some or all of the information stored therein may be downloaded from and or synchronized with a host system computer over the ethernet communications path. In this manner embodiments of the invention provide instant response for door control and alarm sensing in the field while leaving the host system computer with more processing power for quickly executing daily operations such as alarm response database updates and reporting. Also in this manner embodiments of the invention have the ability to make access control and alarm monitoring decisions even during times when the host system computer is unreachable or inoperable.

Embodiments of the controller may incorporate FLASH memory technology. Incorporation of FLASH memory in the controller advantageously allows the controller to receive its operating system and or application s remotely from the host system computer over the previously established ethernet communications path. Consequently firmware upgrades that occur after the controller and or its peripheral devices are installed can be pushed to the controller from the central host system computer which eliminates costly service trips that were formerly required to install firmware updates. Both the modular design of the controller and or its peripheral devices and the FLASH memory technology incorporated within at least the controller provide a simple migration path when considering future host system upgrades.

Embodiments of the controller and or the access device may be configured to provide Fire Alarm Control Panel FACP access and or integration. This advantageously equips the controller the access device and or a door strike coupled with the controller to operate at the direct command of emergency personnel in situations when the FACP experiences an alarm condition. In this manner one or more access controlled doors can be operated during times of emergency. As used herein the term operated as used with respect to doors comprises opening closing locking unlocking a door or combinations thereof.

Other features and advantages of embodiments of the invention will be apparent by examining the following detailed description in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Like reference characters designate identical or corresponding components and units throughout the several views.

An ethernet communications path connects the controller with a remote host computer which is powered by an 110 220V AC input . Alternatively the host computer may be powered by a power source such as a battery a fuel cell etc. The ethernet communications path may include one or more pieces of ethernet cable and or one or more switches relays routers and or other computer network devices. The ethernet communications path is used to convey data between at least the POE controller and the remote host computer and is also used to convey electrical power to the POE controller via the controller s ethernet port. Although not shown in the electrical power supplied over the ethernet communications path is provided by a POE source. In one embodiment the POE source may be integrated within a network device e.g. gateway hub host computer etc. . Alternatively an external POE source may be coupled with a network device. Portions of or all of the electrical power received via the ethernet port of the POE controller are distributed to one or more peripheral devices connected with the POE controller .

In an embodiment non limiting examples of peripheral devices include a door strike and an access device . The access device may be a peripheral device such as an access control reader a biometric identification device a keypad and the like. The door strike may be an electric door strike a magnetic door strike or an electromagnetic door strike. A communications path connects the POE controller with the door strike . Electrical power e.g. current voltage from one or more components of the POE controller are routed over the communications path to control operation of the door strike e.g. to latch de latch the door strike which has the effect of locking unlocking a door next to which the door strike is installed . This electrical power may be derived from electrical power received via the POE controller s ethernet port. In one embodiment the communications path may comprise a pair of shielded or unshielded wires. One wire is connected with a positive terminal of the door strike and the other wire is connected with a negative terminal of the door strike. As denoted by the triangle containing the numeral 1 a protection device should be connected across the door strike . In one embodiment the protection device is a diode having its cathode to the positive side of the door strike .

The access device may be an access control reader. The access control reader may comprise a keypad a magnetic stripe reader a RFID reader a biometric scanner a camera a microphone and or a display. A communications path connects the access device with the POE controller . Electrical power e.g. current voltage from one or more components of the POE controller is routed over the communications path to power the access device . This electrical power may be derived from electrical power received via the POE controller s ethernet port J in . The communications path is also used to transmit data between the POE controller and the access device . The data transmitted over the communications path may include but is not limited to signals that cause one or more components of the POE controller to generate and transmit electrical power over the communications path to operate the door strike . In one embodiment the communications path comprises a pair of shielded wires.

In an embodiment the access device receives identification data from a user of the access control system and relays this identification data to the controller which processes the identification data to determine the access privileges if any associated therewith. If appropriate access privileges exist the controller may operate to delatch the door strike . If insufficient or revoked access privileges exist the controller may keep the door strike securely latched.

The POE controller is configured to be optionally connected with a Fire Alarm Control Panel FACP via a FACP communication path which may comprise a pair of shielded wires. The FACP is configured to override the POE controller and de latch the door strike when the FACP is in an alarm condition. An alarm condition may be generated at least by operation of a fire detection sensor a manual switch and or by operation of a fire alarm pull device. If the POE controller is not connected with the FACP a jumper may be connected across the POE controller s FACP connectors J as shown in . For failsafe and redundancy purposes the FACP is powered by its own local power supply not shown .

Optionally an embodiment of a controller may be powered by a local power supply or backup power supply e.g. a battery a solar cell a fuel cell and equivalents not shown . In such an embodiment a door strike powered by another local power supply may be coupled with the POE controller . The local power supply may be powered via a 110 220V AC input . A communications path formed of two or more shielded wires may connect both the door strike and the local power supply with the POE controller . As indicated by the triangle containing number 2 a protection device should be connected across the door strike . The protection device may be a Metal Oxide Varistor MOV or a diode . For an AC type door strike a MOV type protection device should be used. For a DC type door strike a diode protection device should be used with the cathode of the diode connected to the positive side of the door strike . As indicated by the triangle containing the number 4 there is a current restriction through the relay not shown in the controller . The fuse couples the local power supply with the POE controller and serves to protect the relay. In an embodiment the current restriction should be limited to less than about 2 amps to prevent damage to the relay in the POE controller but different embodiments may require different current restrictions if any . The current limiting may be achieved either by using a power supply that has built in current limiting or by wiring in a fuse that is external to the power supply .

Additionally another communications path may couple the controller with a relay and further couple the relay with an output device and its local power supply . The local power supply may receive electrical power via a 110 220V AC input and or via a power source such as a battery fuel cell etc. . The communications path may comprise two or more shielded wires. As indicated by the triangle containing the numeral 3 a protection device such as diode may be connected across the output device with the cathode of the diode connected with a positive side of the output device . As indicated by the triangle containing the numeral 5 there may be a current restriction through the relay coil . In an embodiment the current through the relay coil is limited to less than about 0.2 amps to prevent damage to the POE controller . Other embodiments of the invention however may required a different current restriction if any . Non limiting embodiments of an output device include a siren a horn a lamp etc. In an embodiment a signal produced by the controller causes the output device to produce a visual and or audio indication of an alarm event.

Referring again to an exemplary installation and operation of the POE controller is described. The POE controller the access device and the door strike are installed at a door for which access control is desired. Specifically the POE controller is installed above or adjacent a side of the door and on a side of the wall that is interior to the room area to be protected. If the room area to be protected includes an automated fire detection system the POE controller is connected with the automated fire detection system s FACP.

Additionally the door s mechanical door strike is removed and replaced with the door strike . Shielded wires forming the communications path are connected to the door strike and to the POE controller . As noted above a protection device is connected across the door strike . The access device is installed next to the door on a side of a wall that is exterior to the room area to be protected. Shielded wires forming the communications path are connected to the POE controller and to the access device . An ethernet cable forming the ethernet communication path is then connected to the POE controller s ethernet port. In this or equivalent manner one or more doors may be quickly and inexpensively equipped with an access control system.

Connecting an ethernet cable between the host computer or a network device such as a gateway a router a hub etc. and the POE controller provides a path for electrical power to the access device supplied by a POE source not shown but described above and or to the door strike . Within the controller a circuit not shown coupled with the controller s ethernet port J in is configured to transform all or part of the electrical power received via the ethernet port and to route the same to one or more components of the controller and to at least one peripheral device coupled with the controller .

Connecting an ethernet cable to the POE controller also allows data to be transmitted between the host computer and the POE controller . Data if any transmitted between the host computer and the access device passes through the controller . The POE controller may include a microprocessor not shown that is configured to program the POE controller to dynamically load one or more firmware programs and or software programs to a memory of the POE controller and to program one or more peripheral devices when the one or more peripheral devices are coupled with the POE controller . A memory not shown of the POE controller may contain a database of stored information that permits stand alone operation of the POE controller the door strike and the access device when data transfer between the POE controller and a host computer ceases. Additionally the POE controller may be further configured to transmit to the host computer data indicative of at least one of detected tampering of the controller housing an AC power failure and a low battery pack back up condition.

User identification codes and associated access privileges generated by the host computer and or stored in a memory thereof may be transmitted in real time or in near real time to the memory of the POE controller . Optionally the POE controller may relay these codes and access privileges to the access device . Additionally data indicating access records and or operational status of the POE controller and or its peripherals access device door strike door strike digital output device etc. may be stored in a memory of the POE controller and or transmitted via the ethernet communications path to the host computer .

Once the POE controller the access device and the door strike have been installed and configured a person desiring access to the protected room area interacts with the access device . Such interaction may occur via keypad entry magnetic card swipe smart card proximity handshake biometric scanning facial recognition and or voice recognition. Based on this interaction the POE controller compares the identification data provided by the user to a database of user identification data and associated access privileges. This database of user identification data and associated access privileges may be stored in the memory of the POE controller and or updated in real time or near real time by the host computer . If a match with appropriate access privileges is found the door strike is operated to allow the user to open the door and an access log entry is created. The access log and its entries is stored in the memory of the POE controller and may be transmitted to the host computer via the ethernet communications path . If no match is found or if a match is found that has revoked access privileges the door strike is operated to prevent the door from being opened. An access log entry to record the denial of entry may be generated and stored in the memory of the POE controller .

Ports J J J J and J are used to connect one or more peripherals to the PCB . Illustratively an access device such as a Wiegand type access control reader may be connected to port J. Another Wiegand type access device may also be connected to the port J. Alternatively another type of access device such as a F 2F access control reader may be connected to port J and or to port J. Other types of access devices include a Strobed type access control reader and a Supervised F 2F type access control reader.

Additionally a door alarm contact and exit request button may be connected to pins and of port J using Belden 8725 or equivalent . A second door alarm contact and exit request button may be connected to pins and of port J using Belden 8725 or equivalent .

A door strike powered using electrical power provided via the ethernet port J may be connected to pins and of port J using Belden 8725 or equivalent . A door strike powered using a local power supply may be connected to pins and of port J using Belden 8725 or equivalent . For door strikes powered using electrical power provided via the ethernet port J a jumper wire should be positioned on connector W and or connector W to select either 12 VDC or 24 VDC strike power. Pins and may be used for 12 VDC and pins and may be used for 24 VDC. When an external power supply is used to power a door strike no jumper should be used. For shielded wire the shield grounds must be stripped back through the stamped cut outs and grounded to the earth ground connector.

Port J is used to connect the PCB to a Fire Alarm Control Panel FACP of an automated fire system. If a FACP is not used the jumper shown on the J FACP input should remain in place for correct operation of the POE controller in .

Port J is a pluggable screw terminal block that may be used to connect a 24 VDC 1 amp auxiliary power supply to the PCB .

Port J ethernet port is an RJ45 Standard Cat 5 ethernet jack which controls a RJ45 ethernet network connection. one end of an ethernet cable may be looped through ferrite before removably connecting to the port J. The other end of the ethernet cable is coupled with a host computer or a network connection e.g. a gateway a router etc. that has an integrated POE source or is coupled with an external POE source.

W is a two pin jumper that provides tamper inputs that permit the housing of the POE controller be protected against and or monitored for unauthorized tampering.

P P P and P not shown are connectors used by a modem. In an embodiment the connectors P P P and P and other circuit elements are covered by a substrate of the PCB .

SW SW and SW are sets of DIP switches used for configuring the PCB to operate with various types of peripheral devices such as but not limited to Magstripe readers and Wiegand readers. SW includes eight DIP switches SW includes four DIP switches and SW includes four DIP switches. For example to connect one type of Magstripe reader DIP switches and of SW are set to ON . To connect one type of Wiegand reader DIP switches and of SW are set to ON. Other SW DIP switch combinations may be used to connect other types of readers and or other kinds of peripheral devices. In most embodiments the DIP switch of SW is set to OFF . The DIP switches of SW are turned on or off depending on the type of communication protocol used to make the connection. For 120 ohms transmit pair termination DIP switch of SW is ON . For no transmit pair termination default DIP switch of SW is OFF . For 120 ohms receive pair termination DIP switch of SW is ON . For no receive pair termination DIP switch of SW is OFF . For RS485 4 wire default DIP switches and of SW are ON . For RS485 2 wire DIP switches and of SW are OFF .

SW is a manual switch used to place an embodiment of the POE controller in BOOT MODE which enables use of an Integrated Configuration Tool. In an embodiment pressing and holding SW for up to about 5 seconds will turn LED D ON . Once the LED D is illuminated the switch S is released. Thereafter the LED D turns OFF once the Integrated Configuration Tool has been enabled.

SW is a manual switch used for HARDWARE RESET that restarts resets the PCB . The switch SW should only be utilized when performing a controlled manual shutdown of the application as indicated below or if instructed to do so by customer support and or a technician. To properly restart the PCB both the switch SW and the switch SW should be used. First press the switch SW to stop an application being run on the PCB . Then press and release the switch S to restart reset the PCB .

SW is a manual switch used for SHUTDOWN REQUEST that stops an application running on the PCB and puts the PCB into a maintenance mode which allows the PCB to be removed. Since the PCB runs an operating system just like a computer it must be shut down correctly. Pressing SW shuts down the operating system application of the PCB and is like using the Shut down feature of a computer. To properly restart the PCB both the switch SW and the switch SW should be used. First press the switch SW to stop an application being run on the PCB . Then press and release the switch S to restart reset the PCB .

SW is a manual switch used for RESTORE DEFAULTS that returns the configuration of the PCB to the factory defaults. Specifically pressing the switch SW for about five seconds restores the factory defaults for PRIMARY CONNECTION ETHERNET IP ADDRESS 192.168.6.6 MASK 255.255.255.0 and GATEWAY 192.168.6.1 .

In an embodiment the PCB provides network and dial up fallback capabilities in one board. Non limiting examples of these capabilities include support for ethernet networks support for network protocols e.g. DHCP TCP IP UDP and DNS support for optional integrated modem board for fallback dial up connectivity provision of nonvolatile storage referred to as persistent mode of operation which affords a faster reset recovery and allows for host less operation of the POE controller utilization of 32 bit platform which provides fast response times and high capacity throughput support for remote diagnostics provision of a browser based configuration tool and provision of a tunable offline history buffer.

Referring again to a communications path couples the POE controller with the door strike . A communications path couples the POE controller with the access control reader . A communications path couples the POE controller with a FACP . A communications path couples the POE controller with a door sensor . Additionally the POE controller may be coupled with a network a remote POE source not shown and a remote host computer via an ethernet communications path . The POE controller may also be coupled with an exit device via a communications path .

Referring back to embodiments of fully or partially assembled components of the access control system including one or more components of the POE controller may be made and or sold as a kit for providing secured access to a door. The kit may include at least a controller having an ethernet port J wherein the controller is configured to operate using electrical power supplied via the ethernet port J and wherein the controller is further configured to control an access device and a door strike and or . The controller may further comprise a Fire Alarm Control Panel FACP circuit not shown and or connector J for coupling the controller with a FACP . As mentioned previously the controller s integrated FACP circuit is configured to override the controller and de latch the door strike and or when the Fire Alarm Control Panel is in an alarm condition. The kit may further include a door strike and or that is configured to operate using a portion of the electrical power supplied to the controller via the controller s ethernet port J. The kit may further include an access device configured to operate using a portion of the electrical power supplied via the controller s ethernet port J. The kit may further include a door sensor and or an output device and or its relay 

The components and arrangements of the POE controller and access control system shown and described herein are illustrative only. Although only a few embodiments of the invention have been described in detail those skilled in the art who review this disclosure will readily appreciate that substitutions modifications changes and omissions may be made in the design operating conditions and arrangement of the preferred and other exemplary embodiments without departing from the spirit of the embodiments as expressed in the appended claims. Accordingly the scopes of the appended claims are intended to include all such substitutions modifications changes and omissions.

