---

title: Adaptive reflector antenna and method of implementing the same
abstract: An adaptive reflector antenna includes an adaptive reflector and a mechanism for simultaneously effecting feed rotation and shape change for the adaptive reflector so as to maintain antenna performance with large scan angles while simultaneously reducing weight, complexity, and cost.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE043498&OS=RE043498&RS=RE043498
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: RE043498
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070502
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract F04701 00 C 0009 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Space based radar and communications system designs arc generally limited by power aperture product for transmissions and by the antenna aperture for receptions. In both types of systems the beamwidth becomes narrower as the aperture becomes larger forcing the beam to be scanned if larger coverage is desired as it often is. Reflector type antennas are notoriously limited in the scan angle that they can attain to about 10 to at most 20 beamwidths before beam distortion and growth in sidelobes becomes so large as to render performance unacceptable. Phased array antennas do not suffer the same limitations but are in general much more complex heavy and expensive than the same aperture reflector antennas due to the number of components and the strict positional requirements of the elements for their functioning. This is especially true for space based radar systems that detect identify and track targets near the Earth s surface that require large antenna apertures together with fine sidelobe control while attaining large beam scan angles which are needed in order to achieve adequate signal to noise ratio and clutter rejection to perform moving target detection.

Thus it would be desirable to be able to provide very large space antennas that are free of the limited scan angle of reflector or array fed reflector antennas yet are much lighter and less complex than pure electronically steerable antennas. By way of example it would be desirable to be able to implement antennas with aperture in the tens to hundreds of meters while simultaneously having aerial densities of less than 1 kg square meter and yet be able to scan their beams dozens if not hundreds of beamwidths. In addition it would be very desirable to simplify the feeds of such antennas and their associated data processing units to both reduce weight cost and complexity and increase reliability. The resulting reduction in power processing complexity and weight requirements would in turn provide for a significantly lighter and less expensive spacecraft and for a smaller launcher without compromising space system performance. This application describes novel means to implement such antennas regardless of their application.

The following is a detailed description of the best presently known mode of carrying out the invention. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention.

The present invention pertains to an adaptive reflector antenna including an adaptive reflector and a mechanism for simultaneously effecting feed rotation and shape change for the adaptive reflector. According to the present invention various implementations of adaptive reflectors allow the shape of very large antennas to be adaptively controlled. Adaptive reflector antennas according to the present invention have the advantages of very wide scan angle very light weight essentially unlimited size and a very simple and light feed which can greatly simplify associated electronics hardware and information processing systems. For space based radar applications the net result is a great savings in total system weight and costs and a simultaneous increase in system performance. There are many commercial as well as government applications that could benefit from this technology including but not limited to space based radar communications ELINT navigation data collection ground sensing and other antennas. It could also be as useful in airborne as well as ground based radar communications sensing and other applications so long as it were enclosed in a radome to eliminate wind effects.

Referring to the principle of piezoelectric bimorph actuation is explained below. In a bimorph membrane is shown in an inactive state. The bimorph membrane includes oppositely polarized piezoelectric films and which are bonded together. In the bimorph membrane is shown with electrodes and positioned adjacent films and respectively. With an electric potential applied across the electrodes and as shown the film contracts in plane and the film expands in plane resulting in the membrane shape shown in and in . The resultant curvature is dependent on deposited charge film thickness and electrode area where charge is deposited. In an alternative membrane actuating approach is illustrated wherein the bimorph membrane is actuated by an electron beam incident upon the film and a back potential applied to a back electrode covering the entire membrane surface adjacent the film . As illustrated curvature is produced only in the area defined by the electron beam.

Referring to an adaptive reflective antenna includes a membrane including a bimorph substrate a reflector structure formed over the bimorph substrate an optical figure sensor and a beam scanning mechanism configured to adaptively actuate in real time a shape of the membrane in response to an output of the optical figure sensor . The reflector shape can thus be set by setting a reference shape for the figure sensor e.g. by software and or command. In some desired embodiments of the present invention the membrane is configurable as a parabolic cylinder antenna. It should be appreciated however that other antenna geometries could also benefit from the principles of the present invention. The membrane has a plated back surface electrode on the side of the piezoelectric bimorph substrate film layers opposite from where the reflector structure is positioned. In this embodiment of the present invention the reflector structure is a conductive grid formed with about a half wavelength grid spacing . The grid reflector saves a large amount of weight without affecting radio frequency RF reflector performance. The beam scanning mechanism includes or remotely accesses processing functionality and controls scanning of the electron beam to change or correct the shape of the membrane . See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 188 160 to Main et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

A method for implementing an adaptive reflector antenna according to the present invention includes the step of operatively coupling line feed rotation and reflector shaping for an adaptive off axis reflector of a parabolic cylinder antenna such that each reflector shaping creates an identical off axis parabolic shape for the portion of the reflector then illuminated by the line feed rotation. In various embodiments of the present invention the step of operatively coupling line feed rotation and reflector shaping includes co locating optical figure sensors and electron beam generators of the adaptive reflector antenna as shown in . In various embodiments of the present invention a mechanism for simultaneously effecting feed rotation and shape change is realized via an illuminating beam scanner which adjusts a shape of the adaptive reflector in response to an optical figure sensor. The mechanism for simultaneously effecting feed rotation and shape change is configured such that illuminated reflector shape is controlled as offset angle and tilt are applied so that the feed always sees an on axis reflector of the original shape as scan angle is changed such that antenna gain pattern and sidelobe levels remain constant as the scan angle is increased from zero. As discussed below the parabolic cylinder antenna with adaptive off axis reflector of the present invention provides significant benefits when compared to a conventional off axis array fed parabolic cylinder reflector antenna.

In an embodiment of the present invention illustrated in an antenna includes a reflector membrane a line array co located optical figure sensors and electron beam generators and a side beam configured as shown. As illustrated the reflector membrane is clamped at the bottom edge only thus the reflector membrane is free along most dimensions. Optionally adaptive side tensioning beams can be provided. The shape of the reflector membrane is controlled as discussed above via electron beam and back electrode potential.

In another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in an antenna is identical to the antenna except that it additionally includes a plurality of beams positioning the bottom edge of the reflector membrane as shown.

In still another embodiment of the present invention illustrated in an antenna is identical to the antenna except that it additionally includes a structurally efficient bottom clamping beam positioned at the bottom edge of the reflector membrane as shown. The full length clamping beam can be deployable or inflatable.

According to the present invention various approaches to scanning the antenna beam can be employed. For example illustrates an antenna that employs a mechanically rotating line feed approach. The antenna includes a reflector membrane a mechanically rotating line feed co located optical figure sensors and electron beam generators and a side beam configured as shown. illustrates an antenna that employs a fixed line feed with auxiliary rotating reflector approach. The antenna includes a reflector membrane a fixed line feed co located optical figure sensors and electron beam generators a side beam and a rotatable auxiliary reflector configured as shown. By way of example the auxiliary reflector can be configured to rotate mechanically or piezoelectrically. Thus the illuminating beam scanner configured to adjust a shape of an adaptive reflector in response to an optical figure sensor can be realized in various forms. It should be appreciated that still other approaches to scanning the antenna beam can be employed.

The above described GMTI adaptive reflector is suitable for a 10 m 100 m array fed simple one dimensional line array parabolic cylinder reflector that is attached to the feed with minimal structure only at its bottom edge. Multiple phase centers may be retained in the line array if beneficial. For an antenna employing such an adaptive reflector less clutter processing is required Space Time Adaptive Processing STAP is reduced or eliminated. This adaptive reflector also results in smaller Minimum Detectable Velocity of targets and in improved tactical target tracking. An antenna employing such an adaptive reflector is lighter and less costly fewer Low Noise Amplifiers LNAs no beamforming hardware or electronics. Consequently spacecraft design is simplified and significant weight and cost savings are likely.

Operating at X band stresses surface requirements and a great amount of surface accuracy is needed to avoid loss of gain. An imperfect surface scatters some signal away from the focus and produces a loss known as the Ruze loss after John Ruze who first derived the expression L exp d where L is the loss factor d is the root mean square rms deviation from a parabola and is the wavelength. Rms surface roughness of 0.75 mm is needed to limit gain reduction to 

By way of comparison an advanced 10 m 100 m inflatable X band reflector with 3.4 degree scan 20 beamwidths capability weighs 700 kg. Adding a feed array weight 2D array of 275 kg and STAP weight and power of 25 kg 1 kW equivalent to 35 kg total results in a total antenna and processor weight of 1 010 kg. In contrast for the 10 m 100 m adaptive GMTI reflector with 40 degree scan of the present invention which has a reflector weight including structure of 43 kg adding a feed array weight line array of 95 kg and a STAP weight of 0 kg results in a total antenna and processor weight of 138 kg. Thus for GMTI implementation of the present invention saves 872 kg and allows for a much simpler lighter array and processing potentially reduces clutter and allows for a lower target Minimum Detectable Velocity and allows for much greater scanning possibly reducing S C number altitude.

The above described AMTI adaptive reflector is suitable for a 50 m 300 m array fed simple one dimensional line array parabolic cylinder reflector that is attached to the feed with minimal structure to eliminate stationkeeping. The larger aperture allows for the elimination of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle UAV receivers without power increase. This adaptive reflector also results in a smaller minimum detectable target cross section. For an antenna employing such an adaptive reflector less clutter processing is required Space Time Adaptive Processing STAP is reduced or eliminated.

Operating at L band does not stress surface requirements. Rms surface roughness of 0.75 mm is needed to limit gain reduction to 

By way of comparison an advanced 50 m 300 m inflatable L band reflector with 6.8 degree scan 20 beamwidths capability weighs 10 500 kg. Adding a feed array weight 2D array of 2 770 kg and STAP weight and power of 25 kg 1 kW equivalent to 35 kg total results in a total antenna and processor weight of 13 305 kg. In contrast for the 50 m 300 m adaptive AMTI reflector with 40 degree scan of the present invention which has a reflector weight including structure of 148 kg adding a feed array weight line array of 275 kg and a STAP weight of 0 kg results in a total antenna and processor weight of 423 kg. Thus for AMTI implementation of the present invention saves 12 882 kg and allows for a much simpler lighter array and processing potentially eliminates UAVs and reduces minimum detectable target size and allows for much greater scanning possibly reducing S C number altitude.

Additionally it should be understood that the principles of the present invention are applicable to both optical and RF apertures. Moreover the membrane reflector can be actuated by a beam mechanism other than electron beams or even by wire actuated or other remote means actuated areas on the membrane.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of the embodiment s above numerous modifications and or additions to the above described embodiment s would be readily apparent to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the scope of the present invention extends to all such modifications and or additions.

