---

title: Convergence of customer and internal assets
abstract: An information management system providing a consolidated representation of a plurality of assets is disclosed. According to one embodiment, the information management system includes a data repository operable to store a plurality of global asset definitions which represent enterprise-owned assets and customer-owned assets. In one embodiment, one global asset definition is stored as a record of an asset of the plurality of assets. The global asset definition includes a functional specification of the asset and a physical attribute of the asset. The system further includes a work management application communicatively coupled to the data repository which provides a work flow manager that is operable to determine a work flow associated with the global asset definition. The work flow manager is further operable to manage the execution of the work flow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874455&OS=08874455&RS=08874455
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08874455
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070914
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to data management and more particularly relate to convergence of customer and internal assets.

A centralized data repository and work management solution is a collection of software and or hardware components that enables a business or enterprise to maintain a single master source of data describing the physical attributes of assets in the business or enterprise that is accessible across multiple heterogeneous information management systems and subsystems. Currently software vendors such as Oracle Corporation and IBM offer two types of data management solutions for assets a customer relationship management CRM solution and an enterprise resource planning ERP solution. These solutions are based on the ownership of the asset where the CRM solution provides a centralized view of customer owned assets and where the ERP solution provides a view of enterprise owned assets. However the software industry has thus far failed to provide a solution for centrally defining and managing the intersection of assets between CRM and ERP products.

The creation of a centralized definition of assets has become increasingly important in recent years as companies have started performing both customer related business functions e.g. product service sales etc. as well as enterprise asset management e.g. maintenance operational requirements etc. . In many instances these companies are forced to invest in two separate systems a CRM system for servicing and an ERP system for maintenance. These two system effectively perform the same functions but are distinguished based on ownership of the asset. For example an electric utility company owns their own assets such as transmission lines and the poles on which the transmission lines are mounted. There are also the assets owned by customers of the utility company such as meters residing within the domestic abode. In order for the electric utility provider to manage both the company owned assets and the customer owned assets the traditional solution was to invest in both CRM and ERP solutions. The customer service oriented CRM application would track the customer owned meters and billing whereas the ERP system may track the internally owned assets including the transmission lines and transformers. An exemplary ERP system is Oracle Enterprise Asset Management eAM . Both systems perform the same work flow functions maintaining and tracking assets. A system which addresses the redundancies within the CRM and eAM systems would be more efficient than purchasing and operating two disparate systems.

To address the foregoing needs prior solutions that recognize both customer owned assets and enterprise internal assets have attempted to integrate one system with another. This usually involves extracting the asset data from the separate CRM and eAM systems and forming an assimilated asset definition. However this does not eliminate the data redundancy. The customer owned asset and internal asset definitions continue to be persisted in the separate systems. Moreover prior solutions leverage pre existing business flows which require the asset data on the separate systems to be synchronized during the flow of work execution. Furthermore these types of solutions are generally created by third party consulting services and are not out of the box solutions. Thus this approach is problematic for several reasons. First it is inefficient because it doubles the amount of processing and memory resources required to maintain a single set of data i.e. the asset data . Second it is cumbersome because it requires synchronization of the extracted asset data with the CRM master data and the eAM master data on a periodic basis. Even with frequent synchronizations there may be situations where the extracted data is stale possibly leading to processing errors and a degraded quality of service to customers.

Another solution is to integrate customer owned assets and internal assets within an e business suite of applications. The usual solution is to combine the asset definitions from both systems into a single definition. This means the physical and financial definitions are combined. However this solution is also problematic. It is cumbersome because financial systems do not need to recognize assets in the same way as non financial systems. For example an accounting system may represent ten laptop computers as a single entry with a quantity of ten units and may depreciate the single entry on the group of ten assets. On the other hand the physical representation may include ten separate entries. With a combined asset definition the accounting system must then depreciate each entry separately.

Moreover where subsystems are not bundled in a suite of applications inefficiencies are prevalent. Each subsystem is tightly coupled to its own work management module. However the separate work management modules perform the same functions and tasks. It would be more efficient to have a single work management module in order to eliminate the redundancies.

Embodiments of the present invention address the foregoing and other such problems by providing systems and methods for convergence of customer and internal assets by providing an information management system that can interoperate with a plurality of disparate application systems and can provide a consolidated representation of a plurality of assets regardless of the ownership of the asset. Assets owned by disparate application systems may be represented by a global asset definition.

In one set of embodiments an information management system provides a consolidated representation of a plurality of assets and includes a data repository and a work management application. The data repository is operable to store a plurality of global asset definitions representing enterprise owned assets and customer owned assets. Each global asset definition is stored as a record representing the asset in the data repository. The global asset definition includes a functional specification of the asset and a physical attribute of the asset. The work management application may be communicatively coupled to the data repository. The work management application may provide a work flow manager which is operable to determine a work flow associated with the global asset definition. The work flow may be determined using the functional specification as set out in the asset record. The work flow itself includes one or more tasks to be performed by one or more subsystems of the plurality of disparate application systems. In one embodiment the one or more tasks are required for accomplishing the functional specification. The functional specification can include a statement of work which identifies a subject matter of the work that needs to be performed. Thus the work flow includes tasks which are required to fulfill the statement of work. In some embodiments the work flows may span across disparate application systems. For example the work flows may encompass activities performed by a combination of CRM subsystems and ERP eAM subsystems.

As used herein assets refers to tangible physical objects of value which are owned by the enterprise itself or which is purchased and owned by customers of the enterprise. For example assets may include but not limited to products machines and warehousing equipment for a manufacturing industry transmission towers and generating equipment for a utility industry oil rigs ocean based platforms and pipelines for an oil and gas industry and vehicles and machines for a waste management industry. Assets may be associated with various data including but not limited to physical attributes e.g. size color etc. ancillary attributes and other such information.

In one set of embodiments the global asset definition excludes attributes describing financial features of the asset. Thus the global asset definition distinguishes between the physical and financial representations of assets but does not distinguish between the ownership of the asset. In one embodiment if a financial subsystem attempts to access the global definition of an asset a process module is operable to disseminate a copy of the global asset definition to the financial subsystem. A local data repository associated with the financial subsystem may be configured to store the local copy of the global asset definition. The financial subsystem may then update the localized global asset definition with various attributes describing financial features of the asset. Accordingly respect for the differences between the physical work flows and financial work flows is upheld.

A further understanding of the nature and the advantages of the embodiments disclosed herein may be realized by reference to the remaining portions of the specification and the attached drawings.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form.

Embodiments of the present invention provide methods and apparatus for convergence of customer assets and internal assets which enable heterogeneous subsystems to access a centralized data source describing the physical as opposed to financial attributes of assets associated with an enterprise. Specific embodiments may be particularly useful for product and service providers who recognize the redundancy between customer and internal assets running on disparate information management systems. Current methods of customer and internal asset consolidation are performed via asset replication which is problematic because it can be inefficient and can require significant overhead to synchronize. Embodiments of the present invention overcome these and other problems and facilitate the convergence of customer and internal assets.

In the description that follows embodiments will be described in reference to subsystems on a platform for a software application such as a database application. However embodiments are not limited to any particular architecture environment application or implementation. For example although embodiments will be described in reference to CRM and eAM applications aspects of the invention may be advantageously applied to any software application and platform. Therefore the description of the embodiments that follows is for purposes of illustration and not limitation.

In one set of embodiments subsystems are bundled with one or more CRM and or ERP eAM systems of an enterprise and are interested in asset information based on the physical representation of the asset. These subsystems include for example depot repair field service demand for work from a sales order demand for work from a requisition form manufacturing maintenance and the like. Subsystems and may also be bundled with one or more CRM and or ERP eAM systems but are interested in asset information based on the financial representation of the asset. These include for example cost billing and capitalization subsystems for enterprise owned assets and customer billing subsystems for customer owned assets. For instance global asset repository may contain global definitions for assets associated with the enterprise. Any of subsystems which are interested in the physical as opposed to financial definitions of the assets can access and update the global asset record in the repository .

Other subsystems which are interested in the financial definition of the enterprise s assets such as subsystems and can access the global asset definitions in repository via work management application but cannot make updates to the global asset definition. Instead these subsystems are treated as spoke systems operating with a data hub of a master data management system such as the global asset repository . The spoke systems can import and synchronize the data from the hub into their local data repositories. Importation can be performed using a streaming loader program e.g. XML based loader a batch based program or through manual entry of data. Once the asset data has been imported the data may be cleansed by resolving data conflicts removing duplicates and augmenting the data to conform to a consistent format. By preventing the subsystems which rely on the financial representation of assets from updating the global asset definition of repository the physical and financial definitions of the assets of the enterprise remain separate. This allows work flows based on the financial representation of the asset to be distinct from work flows based on the physical representation of the asset.

Thus in one embodiment the asset management system includes two distinct asset definitions a global asset definition relating to the physical representation of the asset and a local subsystem specific definition relating to the financial representation of the asset. The global asset definition is a centralized definition of the physical representation of the asset regardless of the asset s ownership status. In essence the global asset definition includes the physical representation of the asset as dictated by subsystems for customer owned assets and or subsystems for internally owned assets.

Global asset repository is configured to store global asset definitions associated with the enterprise. As used herein global asset definitions represents information about the physical representation of assets associated with the enterprise regardless of the asset ownership. The assets include customer owned assets and or enterprise owned assets. As previously mentioned assets may include but are not limited to products machines and warehousing equipment for the manufacturing industry transmission towers and generating equipment for the utility industry oil rigs ocean based platforms and pipelines for the oil and gas industry and vehicles and machines for the waste management industry. In one embodiment each instance of an asset may be represented as a separate record in the global asset repository . Each record may be associated with various data relating to the physical representation of the asset. Physical attributes include but are not limited to color size shape nameplate data engineering specifications Bill of Materials physical location such as address meter definitions and counters asset number serial number asset hierarchy asset route area operational status category identifier asset check in status supplier warranty expiration date owning department identifier work in progress accounting code service level contracts etc.

The global asset definition may also include ancillary attributes. These ancillary attributes may include but are not limited to maintenance attributes such as frequency of maintenance checks production attributes such as efficiency of the asset and capacity of the asset role attributes field service attributes depot repair attributes and the like. Moreover each record is further associated with a functional specification such as the subject matter of the work i.e. work statement to be performed and the steps or tasks that are required to perform the work statement. The functional specification may be stored in a repository that is accessible by the work management application such as repository or a repository within the work management application .

In an exemplary embodiment global asset repository is implemented as a relational database or a collection of relational databases. In alternative embodiments repository may be implemented using any other logical storage format e.g. flat file etc. .

Work flow manager comprises one or more software and or hardware components that are configured to read the functional specification including the work statement and associated steps tasks and in response to the functional specification determine a work flow for the asset. The work flow manager may further include a repository for all work flows associated with the assets in global asset repository . The work flow manager may also manage the execution of the work flows.

Process module consists of one or more software and or hardware components that are configured to control access and updates to the global asset repository . In one embodiment one or more subsystems cause new asset records to be created or cause existing records to be incrementally updated during the progression of a work flow. In one embodiment the one or more subsystems request that a record be created or updated. The process module may formulate and send a create or update request such as a SQL statement after performing reconciliation. Reconciliation is designed to improve the quality and integrity of global asset data since such data is typically updated from a number of different subsystems. One type of data reconciliation that may be performed is the resolution of data conflicts using one or more predefined business rules. A data conflict occurs when global asset repository receives conflicting information from two or more subsystems. As described in further detail below conflict resolution business rules may be defined by a user with appropriate privileges via administrative module .

A second type of reconciliation that may be performed by process is the augmentation of data received from subsystems. In various embodiments augmentation includes adding additional qualifiers or categorizations to the data that were not present in the request. This allows incoming data to be formatted and stored in a standardized form in global asset repository . Other types of reconciliation are also be performed.

Process module may be implemented as any type of software hardware component or combination of software hardware components. For example process module may be implemented as one or more PL SQL packages resident in global asset repository . Alternatively process may be implemented as one or more Java programs resident in an application server. In one embodiment process operates in real time and reconciles global asset data as the data is published into global asset repository during the progression of work flow. In other embodiments process module operates as a batch process and processes the global asset definitions stored in repository at predefined intervals. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

Security module comprises one or more rules defining the security privileges of end users e.g. subsystems and administrators of installed base data hub . Exemplary rules include read only access to installed base repository read write access and the like. In an exemplary embodiment one or more rules are associated with a security role and one or more roles are associated with a user. For instance a subsystem e.g. user may be assigned an end user role consisting of read write access to repository . A system administrator may be assigned a super user role consisting of additional privileges such as the ability to modify the configuration of security module process module and work flow manager . The security module may be configurable based on a role and or user security model.

In various embodiments security module also includes one or more software and or hardware components for authenticating and authorizing users to global asset repository according to the security rules defined. Security module may implement any one of a number of known authentication authorization mechanisms such as username password cryptographic keys and the like. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

Subscription and publication interfaces enable subsystems such as to read and write data to global asset repository respectively. In an exemplary embodiment interfaces are implemented as Application Programming Interfaces APIs using a standardized invocation format and parameter model thereby allowing any heterogeneous subsystem following the standardized format and model to access global asset repository . In one set of embodiments subscription publication interfaces are implemented as Web Services. Interface may also be implemented using any other standardized remote invocation interface such as CORBA Java Remote Method Invocation RMI and the like. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

Administrative module consists of a user interface for managing aspects of the global asset repository process module and security module . With respect to global asset repository administrative module may include functions for manually modifying the global asset definition data in the repository . With respect to the process module administrative module may include functions for defining business rules logic for resolving data conflicts and data augmentation. With respect to security module administrative module may include functions for creating security rules and roles and defining the associations between each. With respect to work flow manager administrative module may include functions for creating and updating work flows associated with assets.

According to one set of embodiments the user interface of administrative module is implemented as a Web based form. In other embodiments the user interface may be implemented as any other type of software based interface such as a proprietary application window etc.

At step S a global asset definition is created. In one embodiment a new global asset definition is created for every instance of an asset. A user may define the subject matter of the work i.e. statement of work to be performed such as paint a transformer on an electric line. The steps or tasks that are required to perform the work statement are also determined. These steps tasks are instructional statements that need to be performed in order to get the work done. In one embodiment a user may define such steps tasks manually or by selection from a library of steps available. For example the determined steps may include step A disconnect the electric line from power source step B scrape off the existing paint step C buff surface step D apply primer and step E apply paint.

In one embodiment a user may define the asset by associating physical and ancillary attributes as opposed to financial attributes with the asset. By limiting the global asset definition to physical and ancillary attributes and excluding financial attributes two separate and distinct asset definitions emerge a global definition and a financial definition. Moreover because the global asset definition is not segregated based on the ownership of the asset the global asset definition can be originally initiated and later accessed and updated by any subsystem dealing with physical or ancillary representations of the asset within the work flow. In addition to associating the physical and ancillary attributes with the asset the user may define the asset group attributes asset hierarchy and other attributes such as Connected To Member Of Upgraded From Installed On etc. Moreover the user may specify a statement of work which is the function of the asset and the role the asset will play for the enterprise. For example a drill machine may be used by a manufacturing enterprise for purposes of production. A laptop computer may serve the purpose of bookkeeping for the manufacturing enterprise. After the asset and attributes have been defined a work management application causes a new record to be created within the global asset repository comprising the specified attributes.

At step S a work flow associated with the global asset record is determined. In one embodiment the definition of work i.e. the work statement and associated steps required to perform the work statement is used to determine the work flow in order to accomplish the work statement. The work flow may be predefined such that one or more of the defined steps tasks are associated with or mapped to a predefined work flow. In another embodiment the user may manually create a work flow. As used herein a work flow includes one or more detailed events which are performed in a specific sequence by one or more subsystems to accomplish the defined steps tasks regardless of the ownership of the asset. In other words any single work flow may include activities performed by a combination of CRM subsystems and ERP eAM subsystems. The work management application may manage the work flow.

During the course of the work flow associated with the global asset definition at step S one or more subsystems may send a request to the work management application for the global asset definition. The request may be a read or write request.

At step S read access is provided or updates are performed in response to the received request. In one embodiment the subsystem may update the global asset definition by sending a write request. Essentially while operating on the single record each subsystem may build up the definition by adding and or modifying attributes as needed by that subsystem. The asset record evolves as the business process or work flow progresses. The subsystems operate on a single source of truth by using the global asset repository thus reducing redundancy and alleviating the need to perform synchronization among disparate asset definitions. In one embodiment the request for global asset data may be sent by subsystems that are within the work flow but are concerned with the financial representation of the global asset. In such cases the financial representation based subsystem may create a copy of the global asset definition that is local to the subsystem. Financial attributes may be added to the local asset definition. This enables the financial flows to be separated from the physical and ancillary definition based work flows.

At step S it is determined whether the work flow associated with the asset has been completed. If the work is completed processing is complete. Otherwise the work management application continues to service the requests by the subsystems during the course of the work flow by iterating back to step S.

In one embodiment a demand for work of a product such as an ATM machine is received by a manufacturing department as depicted in block . Demand may be received in many ways. For example in a purchasing flow demand may be received as a purchase requisition. In a selling flow demand may be received as a purchase order. Other known methods of demand intake are also contemplated without departing from the scope of the embodiments described herein. In one embodiment the demand intake and processing is performed by a work management application.

Once the demand for work is received a new record is created for the demanded asset whether it be a customer asset or an internal asset. Each instance of an asset creates a new record in the global asset repository. A functional role of the asset is specified along with physical ancillary attributes. The functional specification and attributes are stored in the new record thus creating a global asset definition for that instance of the asset. Moreover a work flow is determined for the new asset.

In this embodiment the defined work flow requires a process product manufacturing subsystem to perform production scheduling and other functions at block . The process product manufacturing subsystem executes its functions and adds additional attributes to the global asset definition as required by those functions. As depicted a bill of materials BOM attribute is added along with an alternative parts attribute. Next the work flow requires that a financial subsystem determine a budget generate an approval and perform other financial type processing at block . Because the financial subsystem deals with the financial representation of the asset rather than the physical ancillary representation the work management application may disseminate a copy of the global asset definition. The financial subsystem may store the asset definition as a local copy. Financial attributes such as cost of parts and cost of labor may be added to the local asset definition as required.

The work flow continues to block where a sales order is received by the manufacturing enterprise. At this point in the work flow the asset transforms from an enterprise manufacturing asset into a customer owned asset. It should be recognized that regardless of the ownership of the asset subsystems from both enterprise and customer based systems can operate on a common data model e.g. the global asset definition. The sales order subsystem adds customer information attributes quantity ordered attribute and other various attributes to the global asset definition as needed by that subsystem. Progressing through the workflow a delivery subsystem performs various functions at block . The delivery subsystem adds delivery related attributes such as date of delivery and delivery address. Next the work flow continues to an installation subsystem at block which adds installation related attributes such as identification of the service personnel performing the installation tools required the activity performed installation the date of installation address of installation and customer information.

The work flow continues to block where a maintenance subsystem performs various functions. The maintenance subsystem may add attributes to the global asset definition such as the inspection date activity e.g. repair wash repaint etc. tools required start and end time of activity and meter readings. Finally the lifecycle of the asset comes to an end where the asset is decommissioned and disposed at block . Attributes related to the disposal date and decommission date may be added to the global asset definition.

As such the global asset repository provides a single common asset definition for both enterprise owned and customer owned assets. The physical location of the asset is trackable by the addition of various location and address attributes. Moreover attributes may be provided to support asset movement transactable asset such as for inventory transactions or physical location updates. Further the global asset definition enables assets which are defined by a non eAM system such as a CRM system to be maintained through a portion of the asset lifecycle by a servicing eAM system. In addition to the global asset repository the single work management application layer has numerous benefits. In the absence of a consolidated CRM or ERP system the work management application consolidates the functionalities of the otherwise separate work management systems where each separate work management system is associated with a distinct subsystem.

In most embodiments the system includes some type of network . The network may can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

The system may also include one or more server computers which can be general purpose computers specialized server computers including merely by way of example PC servers UNIX servers mid range servers mainframe computers rack mounted servers etc. server farms server clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination. One or more of the servers e.g. may be dedicated to running applications such as a business application a Web server application server etc. Such servers may be used to process requests from user computers . The applications can also include any number of applications for controlling access to resources of the servers .

The Web server can be running an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. The Web server can also run any of a variety of server applications and or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers business applications and the like. The server s also may be one or more computers which can be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers . As one example a server may execute one or more Web applications. The Web application may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer .

The system may also include one or more databases . The database s may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example a database may reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers . Alternatively it may be remote from any or all of the computers and or in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments the database may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers may be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments the database may be a relational database such as Oracle 10g that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

The computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications system e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments the computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a digital signal processor DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

The computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with the network and or any other computer described above with respect to the system .

The computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within a working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program which may be a client application Web browser mid tier application RDBMS etc. . It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments of a computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to store or transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. For example the teachings herein may be extended to cover default configuration for other data visualizations. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.

