---

title: Dynamically balanced seat assembly having independently and arcuately movable backrest and method
abstract: A seat assembly  including a seat , a backrest  and a mounting assembly  mounting the seat  in a near horizontal orientation for movement along an upwardly concaved arcuate seat path having a center of curvature  proximate the center of mass  of a person seated on the seat, and mounting assembly  further mounting the backrest  in a near vertical orientation for movement independently of the seat along a forwardly concaved arcuate path having a center curvature  proximate the center of mass  of the person. An adjustment assembly  is provided for adjusting the radius of curvature of the path of motion of the backrest . Also provided are a backrest tilt adjustment assembly , an armrest adjustment assembly , a seat biasing assembly  and a seat motion latching assembly . A method of self-adjusting support and alignment of a backrest also is disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08662586&OS=08662586&RS=08662586
owner: 
number: 08662586
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20071010
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 828 944 filed Oct. 10 2006 entitled DYNAMICALLY BALANCED SEAT HAVING INDEPENDENTLY AND ARCUATELY MOVABLE SEAT AND BACKREST AND METHOD.

This applicant inventor was granted U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 775 B2 in 2007. This patent is related to the present application wherein claim was granted representing a special case of the supporting structure design. An important object of the present application is to incorporate the design of several other supporting structures invented to produce the intended and desired motion. A general concept claim is required since there are several supporting structures with different component design and mechanical function configurations that can produce the desired counter balancing motion. A more general claim is presented in this application to replace the special case of the U Shaped hanging cradle supporting the seat cushion by an all under the seat mechanism with arcuate rails and sliders and rollers. In the present invention the desired motion is obtained with supporting structures that are different in structure and mechanical function relative to the special case indicated in U.S. Pat. No. 7 234 775 B2.

The field of the present invention relates in general to seat assemblies of the type commonly found in office and living environments and more particularly to seat assemblies having adjustable mechanisms with movable seats and movable backrests and methods for supporting the occupant thereon.

Further it relates to seat assemblies that add the self adjusting dynamic mechanisms to follow the users movements and balancing the weight with the supporting counter balanced action of the mechanism during use.

Considerable work has been directed toward the development of seat assemblies or chairs which are ergonomically well suited for use by persons who are engaged in tasks that require that they be seated for prolonged periods of time. Typical of such applications are the seats or chairs which are used in offices or at home for tasks such as typing reading and computer use.

In recent years it has been recognized that it is highly desirable for such seat assemblies or chairs to be constructed in a manner which allows the seat to move along an upwardly concaved arcuate path or some approximation thereof. Such arcuate movement is most desirably implemented by mounting the seat for movement about an arcuate path having a center of curvature which is proximate the center of mass of the person seated on the seat. This geometry dynamically balances the bio mechanics of user s body with movement of the chair so that the user can have a plurality of equilibrium positions in a variety of postures. The design principle is one of counterbalanced motion in which the mass of the user s body is counterbalanced by angular forces of the motion of the seat mechanism in primarily a fore and aft direction.

People are accustomed to conventional static seat technology and the subjective perception that it is stable. Seating advancements to date deal with ergonomic concerns cushion contouring and tilt adjustments that typically are unstable unless locked in place. Such chairs are not responsive to the body s motion. For example the low back and thighs lose support when the buttock slides forward on the seat by any small amount. This makes the seat unsafe as well as uncomfortable.

My previous U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 244 252 5 460 427 5 558 399 and 5 735 574 describe in more detail the advantages of mounting a seat for movement along an upwardly concaved path having a center of curvature proximate the center of mass of the person seated on the seat. These patents are incorporated herein by reference. Such seat assemblies also are particularly well suited for use in vehicles to dissipate the dynamic forces generated when the vehicle is involved in a sudden deceleration or crash.

In addition to mounting the seat of a chair for arcuate movement it is also well known to mount the back of the seat assembly for movement or for movement of a portion of the back such as the lumbar support region. Various schemes for moving the back are also disclosed in my above referenced patents. Most of these movable back mounting systems couple the back to the seat and have been designed primarily for dynamic deceleration of the seat assembly in vehicles but they are usable to varying degrees in office or home seating.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 261 732 5 366 269 5 437 494 5 577 802 5 961 073 5 979 984 6 334 648 and 7 234 775 disclose chairs or seat assemblies in which one or both of the back and seat are mounted for movement. It is important to note that differences in the manners in which the seats and or seat backs are mounted for movement make the dynamic performance of these assemblies vastly different even though there are superficial similarities. It is not enough to observe that movable seat and or seat backs are known in the prior art.

By way of example U.S. Pat. No. 5 261 732 to Hosoe includes both a movable seat and movable seat back. It is clear however that the seat back in the Hosoe patent seat can move along an arcuate path but the seat back in the Hosoe can only move vertically. There is a lever coupled between the seat and seat base in Hosoe which constrains motion seat back. The lever in Hosoe synchronizes seat motion with the height adjustment mechanism and thereby stops independent free rotation of the user s pelvis by stopping the seat when the height is set.

In the present invention unlike prior art such as Hosoe the seat and the seat back are mounted for independent motion so that many many independent equilibrium positions can be achieved for support in various seating postures and during the change between said postures.

It is of course also well known in office chairs to provide for backrest reclining mechanisms as for example are shown in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 975 634 and 6 086 153. Seat and Backrest adjustments designed to be locked during use alone are not the same as a seat and a seat back which are mounted for independent movement during use.

Generally therefore there still remains a need for a chair or seating assembly which can be used for long periods of time that has an independently movably seat and an independently movable backrest which will together accommodate a wide range of seating postures while providing many balanced or equilibrium positions matched to the bio mechanics of the user s body. Thus the person using the chair will want to assume various postures such as a forward reaching posture where the person is performing manual tasks on a support surface such as a desk or an erect posture for tasks such as typing or a semi reclined posture for increased relaxation. The seat and backrest should be independently movable to an equilibrium position about which dynamic micro adjustments of the user s body and the seat assembly about the center of mass of the user are possible in order to provide the greatest comfort during prolonged use.

A similar example of a chair assembly which has both a movable seat and a movable backrest is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 523 898 to Ball et al. In the Ball et al. patent the seat assembly is mounted for arcuate movement along a path having a center of rotation below not above the seat. Thus the seat moves about a combination of pivot points which are below the seat and the resulting path of seat motion is downwardly concaved. This can be very clearly seen in Ball et al. by comparing numeral in with numeral in . The front of the seat in Ball et al. dives or rotates downwardly about a center of rotation which is below the seat and proximate the center post. The desired upwardly concaved arcuate path which has been found to be desirable to achieving equilibrium of motion for many seat postures is not present therefore in Ball et al. Instead a seat motion which rotates the seat downwardly is present.

The chair mechanism of the present invention is designed to match the motion of the body with the motion of the seat to allow the body to relax safely. It is a goal of the present mechanism to self adjusts to an optimum position maintaining support without the need for manual adjustments at every instance of posture change. It is a further goal to accommodate the range of motion of the seated body with the present mechanism function of the seat and back.

According to one embodiment the seat assembly of the present invention is comprised briefly of a seat a backrest and a mounting assembly mounting the seat in a near horizontal orientation for fore and aft independently of the backrest movement along an upwardly concaved arcuate seat path having a center of curvature above the seat proximate the center of mass of a person seated on the seat. The seat mounting assembly further mounts the backrest in a near vertical orientation for movement independently of the seat along a forwardly concaved arcuate backrest path having a center of curvature in front of the backrest above the seat and proximate the center of mass of the person seated on the seat. In addition the downward motion of the backrest is opposed and balanced by spring forces that are sufficient to maintain equilibrium against the gravitational force to maintain the recline angle of the seated person stable at the desired position. The center of curvature of the seat path and the center of curvature of the backrest path may or may not be concentric depending on the back depth adjustment methods cited in each case presented as can be seen in and . The seat assembly can also be fitted to mount the seat for fore and aft tilting to included an adjustment assembly formed to enable adjustment of the radius of curvature of the backrest path of motion without changing the relative positions of centers of curvature of the seat and backrest. An armrest adjustment mechanism may also be used.

The method of self adjusting support and alignment of a person seated on the present seat assembly comprised briefly of the steps of mounting a seat for pivoting independently of the backrest about an axis above the seat and proximate the center of mass of the user seated on the seat and mounting the backrest to pivot or rotate independently of the seat about an axis positioned in front of the backrest above the seat and proximate the center of mass of the user.

According to the embodiment in the present invention is a seat assembly including a base assembly a seat mounting assembly for mounting a seat to the base assembly and a backrest mounting assembly for mounting a backrest to the base assembly. The seat mounting assembly mounts the seat to the base assembly in a near horizontal orientation for fore and aft movement along an upwardly concave arcuate tracking support under the seat having a center of curvature that is located over and above the seat and below the headrest. The backrest mounting assembly mounts the backrest to the base assembly in a near vertical orientation for movement independent of the seat and along an upwardly concave arcuate track having a center of curvature over and above the seat. The backrest mounting assembly is mounted to the base assembly below the seat.

A novel Backrest height adjustment assembly is presented and located on the mid back of the Backrest. This functions to raise or lower the Backrest to the desired height and lock in to the Backrest upright support structure for movement therewith.

In addition to the dynamic self adjusting properties of the invention it is a further object of the invention to provide a Backrest and Seat depth manual adjustment knob that has several positions that adjusts the horizontal distance from the lumbar support to the front edge of the seat.

The armrest height adjustment assembly with control is on the lower inside of the armrest. Turn to adjust arm height up or down.

The Backrest has a manual adjustment assembly that will adjust the angle of the Backrest relative to the Backrest mounting assembly.

The goal of the Present Invention is to facilitate essential body motion while sitting with mid range continuous support through the body s motions maintaining the neutral posture between upright and reclined seated positions. The Dynamic Seat design seeks equilibrium and is self adjusting maintaining proper seat and lumbar support. The support surfaces come to rest and hold the posture to reduce muscle and bone stress where the body stops to either to work or relax.

The Dynamic Seat Backrest design matches the motion of the body with the motion of the Backrest and Seat. The back and lumbar support as well as the seat adjusts automatically to maintain proper support to the lumbar as the body changes posture.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the preferred embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The seat assembly of the present invention employs a mounting assembly which allows the seat to move independently along an upwardly concaved arcuate path having a center of rotation above the seat and proximate the center of gravity of the user or person seated on the seat. This center of rotation for the seat is broadly known in the prior art as indicated above and enables the user to periodically adjust the seat position while maintaining the mass of the user centered and balanced in equilibrium on the seat for various arcuate positions. The present chair assembly also employs a backrest which is movable independently of the seat about a similar center of rotation as the set located above the seat and forward the backrest and more preferably about the center of gravity of a user seated on the seat. The movement of the backrest affords further balanced comfort for extended seat assembly use.

Referring to the chair or seat assembly of the present invention generally designated can be seen to include a seat and backrest that are supported above a support surface by a mounting assembly generally designated . Seat mounting assembly can include a conventional vertically adjustable telescope type pedestal which is rollingly supported by a plurality of roller elements mounted to radially extending legs which elements are conventional and well known in the art. It also should be noted that other supporting structures can be substituted for pedestal . For example the seat assembly of the present invention can be mounted to standard 3 or 4 legged bases.

In the embodiment shown in the drawings mounting assembly also includes a base support housing mounted on top of pedestal which housing has fixed axles on which arcuate seat pan is mounted. Seat is moveably mounted to arcuate seat pan cradle positioned on top of rollers at each corner of housing and pivoted thereto at pivot axis proximate the center of lumbar motion located above the seat and in front of the backrest. Arcuate seat pan cradle can include a seat mounting plate to which seat can be fastened.

While the illustrated embodiment employs a cradle having a center of curvature above the seat it will be understood that the same arcuate upwardly concaved seat path can be produced by mounting the seat on an arcuate upwardly concaved track and supporting the seat on the track by rollers or sliding supports. The method of supporting the seat relative to the seat mounting hardware is not critical to the broad statement of the invention which only requires independent movement of the seat along an upwardly concaved arcuate path whether a pivoted cradle or track support with rollers or glides is employed.

In the improved seating assembly of mounting assembly further mounts backrest in a near vertical orientation for movement independently of seat along a forwardly concaved arcuate path having a center of curvature in front of the backrest above the seat and proximate the center of mass of the person seated on the seat. Most preferably the center of curvature of the arcuate backrest path is coincident or concentric with the center of curvature for the arcuate seat path. Arcuate back pan rigidly supports upright structural member and is provided with guiding slots and that roll on rollers to produce said arcuate backrest motion .

One embodiment for mounting of backrest by mounting assembly can best be understood by reference to . Thus mounting assembly of the present invention also includes a back support assembly generally designated which includes structural plate . Plate has sleeves that securely receive upright structure . Plate is securely pivoted to arcuate back pan support thru pivot . Plate is securely controlled relative to the angle between plate and member by a cam assembly adjusted by turn knob as seen in . Also mounted to frame member is a compression spring having an end which engages a piston type spring link that resists the force of the spring when the backrest is loaded by the person. an opposite end which is supported by a rotatably mounted cam is mounted to axle and to control the spring force by rotating control knob . As cams push the spring through different phases the force required to decline backrest can be adjusted by the occupant to adjust the amount of force required by the mechanism to maintain in equilibrium the desired angle of recline. Axle for the cam is secured for rotation to base frame as best may be seen in .

It is further preferable in the seat assembly of the present invention to include a backrest tilt adjustment generally designated and best seen in and . Backrest tilt adjustment assembly is coupled between back support assembly and backrest and is formed for manual adjustment of the angle of the backrest relative to backrest support assembly . In the illustrated embodiment backrest is mounted proximate to hinge back plate through bolt sleeves to mounted plate with a hinge pin receiving sleeve formed into latch . As can be seen from latching member is formed to loop against T Shaped pin to selectively lock hinge plate against plate that is structurally fixed to upright member . Pin is structurally fixed to hinge plate and therefore by a T Shape crossing pin . The slot is dimensioned to allow sliding of hinge assembly up or down on plate of assembly to manually adjust the height of the headrest relative to the seat. Latch is designed to release when flipped horizontal and is designed to lock hinge assembly when latch is forced down generally vertical by an eccentric sleeve shape formed in it. The backrest is designed to recline by manually turning screw knob which is threaded into plate and pushing against hinge plate best seen in . Hinge assembly has in addition spring rubber bushing that is contained at one end by bolt that is threaded into plate . Therefore spring bushing is being spring loaded by plate at one end as screw know is turned inward thus increasing the angle of backrest .

It is preferable in the seating assembly of the present invention that armrests also be adjustable as is well know in the art.

Another feature of the present invention is that the location of the radius of the center of curvature of backrest can be adjusted. Thus backrest support assembly includes an adjustment assembly generally designated which is formed for adjustment of the distance between the backrest and the pivotal axis . It does this by pivoting the backrest about axle thus increasing the distance between the backrest surface and the front edge of the seat thereby having the effect of increasing the length of the seat. Additionally plate is securely formed to axle and it contains sleeves which receive the self locking straight bottom ends to form a rigid assembly with components and as a rigid structure that are adjustably mounted to back pan housing to be adjustable with respect to assembly . This adjustment is performed by an assembly composed of turn knob and axle that is fixedly mounted to pivot inside backrest pan housing . Axle rotates cam best seen in which displaces bracket that is securely formed into plate .

As may be seen in seat is mounted by arcuate seat pan cradle for pivoting about an axis which is above the seat and proximate the center of mass of a person or user seated on seat . By comparing and the center of mass of user can be seen to remain closely proximate the center of pivoting of seat cradle for the full range of postures shown in and in each case the seat pivots from a center of curvature above the seat.

The advantages of having backrest and seat which are both independently movable along arcuate paths having centers of curvature proximate the center of mass of the person seated on the chair can be seen by comparing the postures which can be achieved in and . In an erect posture with a downwardly rotated seat and a near vertical backrest is achieved to allow the pelvis to align the spine with the goal of reducing lumbar stress. In the seat is pivoted forwardly and upwardly along an arcuate path from while the backrest is also independently pivoted rearwardly from . The angles of rotation of the seat and back each have their own angle displacement as required by the geometry of the person occupying the seat. In the seat is only partially rearwardly pivoted while the backrest also is only partially downwardly pivoted. In each posture center of mass remains in a balanced position proximate the center of pivoting of the seat and backrest. As also can be seen the spacing between the seat and backrest independently varies with each posture for improved comfort. The mechanism properties allow the user to extend the legs and open the trunk to thigh angle with pelvic rotation increasing the lumbar angle to its mid range position also with the goal of reducing lumbar stress.

Referring now to the mechanism of seat assembly of the seat motion is produced by seat pan cradle that is mounted under the seat on rollers at each corner of roller axis support frame that controls the seat motion to rotate about axis as shown by radius . Horizontally extending U Shaped backrest support structure is seen to pivot at axis that is coincident with a pivotal axis mounted pivot pins on U Shaped frame member which carries the weight of the backrest in back of the user.

Referring to it also can be advantageous to change the radius of pivoting of seat without changing the relative position of the seat. Referring to showing the underside of assembly in it can be seen that actual frame assembly is formed to slide and lock in a horizontal extending direction in the fore and aft relative to seat assembly mounting base frame . Mounting base frame has two cross members securely fixed that further has slider rectangular member slider fixed to it. Roller frame slides linearly fore and aft on sliding members to move the positions of the seat respect to the backrest. This is what moves the center of the seat fore and aft relative to the center of rotation of the backrest as shown in .

As best seen in roller frame has a longitudinal channel shaped runner end to end that has teeth formed at the bottom edge. These teeth are formed to mate with the tooth formed into plate that is actuated upward out of the way by pushing lever upwards thus disengaging the lock as shown by arrow . After the user locates the preferred distance on the seat from the backrest the user can push lever downward to lock into teeth . This can also be accomplished with a spring that will push lever with a spring force in the direction that locks tooth mating into receiving teeth .

While the illustrated embodiment employs a cradle having a center of curvature above the seat it will be understood that the same arcuate upwardly concaved seat path can be produced by mounting the seat on an arcuate upwardly concaved track and supporting the seat on the track by rollers or sliding supports rather than a pivoted U shaped cradle. The method of supporting the seat relative to the seat mounting hardware is not critical to the broad statement of the invention which only requires independent movement of the seat and backrest along an upwardly concaved arcuate path whether a pivoted cradle or track support with rollers or glides is employed.

One embodiment for mounting of backrest by mounting assembly can best be understood by reference to . Thus mounting assembly of the present invention also includes a U shaped back support assembly generally designated which may include a pair of stub arms having a sleeve secured thereto for example by welding and a U shaped back strap member with strap ends slidably telescoped inside sleeve . As best can be seen in stub arm portions of the back support assembly are pivoted at pivotal mount to upper end of frame arms . Also mounted to frame member is a compression spring having an end which engages a protrusion or tooth on arm stub and an opposite end which is supported by a rotatably mounted cam . Axle for the cam is secured for rotation to frame arm . Spring therefore biases back support assembly to essentially the position that is to the point that stub arm engages top member of the U shaped frame arm.

Rotation in a clockwise direction in of backrest therefore is resisted by compression spring and the degree of rotation will depend upon the weight applied to backrest by the user and the spring force in spring . Adjustment of the spring force in spring is accomplished by cam which is rotated by the user by turning manually engageable handle . Thus if the user wants to increase the resistance to downwardly extending rotation of backrest . The highest position of the cam lifting the spring to a position producing maximum compression of spring . If the user wants to reduce the spring force handle is rotated in a clockwise direction by 90 degrees so that spring can extend an upward biasing force on the back support assembly will be reduced. This eases the resistance to arcuate movement of the backrest.

In rotation in a counterclockwise direction in of backrest therefore is resisted by compression spring and the degree of rotation will depend upon the weight applied to backrest by the user and the spring force in spring . Adjustment of the spring force in spring is accomplished by rectangular cam which is rotated by the user by turning manually engageable handle . Thus if the user wants to increase the resistance to counterclockwise rotation of backrest handle can be rotated in a counterclockwise direction which rotates square cam by 90 degrees to a position producing maximum compression of spring . If the user wants to reduce the spring force handle is rotated in a clockwise direction by 90 degrees so that spring can extend and upward biasing force on the back support assembly will be reduced. This eases the resistance to arcuate movement of the backrest.

In end of backrest support strap can be seen to include a rack structure into which a pair of transversely extending pins can be received. Pins are carried by a rotatable knob assembly mounted for rotation to sleeve Rotation of knob assembly in a clockwise direction causes the pins to walk along rack and displace strap forwardly toward U shaped frame . Rotation of knob in a counterclockwise direction displaces strap and backrest in a rearward direction as the pins walk along rack . In order to resist unwanted rotation of knob and pins upon application of a rearward force to backrest when the user leans back on the backrest a detent in the form of protrusions and a notch can be provided on adjustment assembly .

The change in the length of back support assembly allows the seat to accommodate users of different sizes with the result that the center of mass for users of different sizes remains proximate the center of pivoting of seat and of backrest . Moreover the change in location in radius of curvature of the path of motion of backrest is not accompanied by a change in the relative position of the center of curvature of the seat and the center of curvature of the backrest. Even for users of the same size adjustment of the radius of curvature of the backrest may produce a comfort level for a particular user which is enhanced and still will result in positioning of the user s center of mass proximate pivot point for all backrest and seat positions.

It is a further feature of the present invention that chair assembly can be provided with a biasing assembly which biases seat to rotate in a rearward direction. As may be seen in such biasing can be accomplished by springs mounted in each frame arm between seat cradle and frame arm . Although not shown a biasing adjustment assembly also can be provided for example by mounting a cam such as cam between leg and the frame arm wall. Spring also can be positioned at other radial distances from pivot to vary the movement around the pivot. Biasing of seat rearwardly resists the tendency of the user to slouch or rotate his or her hips forwardly while seated on chair .

Turning now specifically to seat assembly can be seen to include seat and backrest that are supported by a base assembly . The base assembly can include a conventional vertically adjustable telescope type pedestal including an upper portion that extends upwardly towards the seat and backrest . The base assembly is rollingly supported by a plurality of roller elements mounted to radially extending legs similar to that described above. The details of the lower portion of the seat seat back base assembly and pedestal are not critical to the operation of the invention. For example the base assembly need not necessarily be provided with rollers . The seat assembly may include a head rest and arm rests . In the left arm rest has been removed to provide better visibility of the relevant features of the invention. The head rest is configured to move with the backrest . The arm rests are mounted to the base assembly by mounting arms .

The upper portion of the base assembly further includes a set of transversely extending guides that are mounted to the upper portion of the pedestal by a transverse mounting frame . The mounting frame can comprise any structure sufficient to secure the guides to the pedestal in the desired position. Preferably the mounting frame will be mounted to swivel on the top portion of the pedestal . In the embodiment shown the guides are bearings in the form of rollers rotatably mounted at opposite ends of the mounting frame . In the illustrated embodiment the guides include two pairs of rollers rotatably mounted on the mounting frame and positioned fore and aft of pedestal . One will appreciate however that the actual number of rollers may vary. For example two three four or more sets of rollers may be provided. One will also appreciate that other types of guides may be used. For example the guides may take the form of low friction blocks or other suitable means which provide a sliding guide surface as will become apparent below. Furthermore one will appreciate that a combination of rollers and other suitable means may also be used.

A seat mounting assembly is used to slidably mount the seat to the base assembly for movement relative to the base assembly along an upwardly concave path. Preferably the seat will have an upper or seating surface see e.g. that is generally upwardly facing and in a horizontal orientation but will tilt fore and aft as it slides along its concave path. Preferably the seating surface will be contoured to ergonomically match a user s anatomy. A guide engaging frame is provided at a lower surface of the seat . In the embodiment shown the guide engaging frame includes a pair of downwardly extending flanges . Each of the flanges is provided with at least one and preferably at least two slots that include an upwardly concave bearing surface . The bearing surfaces ride on corresponding rollers that are received within the slots . Preferably the rollers are provided with lips that protrude and engage the sides of the flanges in order to retain the rollers on track within the slots . In the illustrated embodiment each flange includes a pair of slots however one will appreciate that each flange may include one continuous slot or a plurality of slots which together form the arcuate path. Preferably a slot is provided for each roller or guide of the base assembly to afford maximum structural integrity.

With reference to the bearing surfaces of the arcuate slots are provided with a radius R. Preferably the dimension of R will be such that the center or axis of the radius R is located above the seating surface . Accordingly the seat will rock fore and aft about the center of rotation . Most preferably the center of rotation will be located at approximately an expected center of gravity for a user sitting in the seat assembly . While not shown in the drawings it should be appreciated that the shape of the arcuate bearing surfaces could be made compound with a varying curvature such that the center of rotation is not in a single fixed location above seat but is variable depending upon the location of the rollers within the slots and it s curvature.

It should also be appreciated that the structures that form the guides on the base assembly and the structures that form the guide engaging structure on the seat mounting assembly could be reversed. Accordingly the rollers on the base assembly could be replaced with arcuate slots that are engaged by rollers provided on the guide engaging frame . Alternatively rather than a slot and roller arrangement the seat could be mounted to the base assembly by pivotal links that are mounted to have an effective center of rotation that is located above the seating surface .

A backrest mounting assembly is used to slidably mount the backrest to the base assembly for movement relative to the base assembly along an upwardly concave path. Preferably the backrest will have forward facing back support surface see e.g. that is generally in a vertical orientation but will tilt fore and aft as the backrest slides along its concave path. Preferably the back support surface will be contoured to ergonomically match a user s anatomy.

The backrest mounting assembly includes a guide engaging frame . The backrest is attached to the guide engaging frame by brace . The brace is preferably generally L shaped such that it attaches to the backrest along a generally upright leg and attaches to the guide engaging frame at a generally horizontal leg . The angle formed between the upright leg and the horizontal leg may be selectively adjustable by a recliner assembly shown in . Additionally or alternatively the junction between the upright leg and the horizontal leg may be resilient to provide a cushioned or springy feel to the backrest . It should also be understood that the backrest may be adjustable up and down relative to the upright leg in order to accommodate users of different heights.

The backrest guide engaging frame of the embodiment shown in includes a pair of upwardly extending flanges . The upwardly extending flanges each include at least one and preferably at least two slots . Each of the slots includes an upper bearing surface having a upwardly concave shape. The bearing surfaces ride on corresponding rollers that are received within the slots . Preferably the rollers are provided with lips that protrude and engage the sides of the flanges in order to retain the rollers on track within the slots . In the illustrated embodiment each flange includes a pair of slots however one will appreciate that each flange may include one continuous slot or a plurality of slots which together form the arcuate path. Preferably a slot is provided for each roller or guide of the base assembly to afford maximum structural integrity.

Accordingly the backrest will rotate about a center of rotation that is located at a radius R see from the bearing surface of the slots . The center of rotation is preferably located above the seat and in front of the backrest . The backrest rotates independently of the seat . It should be appreciated that the arcuate slots in the backrest mounting assembly may be formed to have the same curvature as the arcuate slots in the seat mounting assembly such that the backrest and seat share a common center of rotation near an expected center of gravity of a user as shown in the drawings. Alternatively the arcuate slots of the backrest mounting assembly could be formed with a different curvature than the seating mounting assembly such that a different center of rotation applies to the backrest .

In the embodiment shown the upwardly extending flanges of the backrest mounting assembly are located adjacent to and outwardly from the downwardly extending flanges of the seat mounting assembly . This arrangement could be reversed so that the flanges of the backrest mounting assembly are located inwardly from the flanges of the seat mounting assembly . It should also be appreciated that the same centers of rollers may be shared by both the seating mounting assembly arcuate slots and the backrest mounting assembly slots . Alternatively separate rollers may be provided for each of the slots and .

It should also be appreciated that the structures that form the guides on the base assembly and the structures that form the guide engaging structure on the backrest mounting assembly could be reversed. Accordingly the rollers on the base assembly could be replaced with arcuate slots that are engaged by rollers provided on the guide engaging frame . Alternatively rather than a slot and roller arrangement the backrest could be mounted to the base assembly by pivotal links that are mounted to have an effective center of rotation that is located near an expected center of gravity of a user.

The details of the base assembly are best seen in . The base assembly includes the pedestal assembly having an upper portion that extends upwardly towards the seat and backrest . The curved sliding support is mounted securely to the upper portion of the pedestal and is generally movable up and down with the telescopic upper portion . The curved sliding support may be fixed to the upper portion of the pedestal by bolting welding pressure fitted cones or other conventional means. The curved sliding support may take the form of a plate that is curved in one direction so that it has a generally upwardly concave shape in a side profile. Preferably the curved sliding support is formed with a smooth low friction upper surface . As is common the pedestal may include radial legs provided with rollers for rolling support on a support surface.

The seat is mounted to the base assembly by a seat mounting assembly . The seat mounting assembly includes a pair of parallel rails provided on a bottom surface of the seat . The rails are contoured to match the curvature of the sliding support . The rails are constrained within upwardly facing pockets formed by protrusions extending upwardly from the upper surface of the curved sliding support . The weight of the seat and a user sitting in the seat will tend to hold the rails in place within the pockets . Preferably the rails have a smooth low friction bottom surface that will easily slide within the pockets .

The seat pan will therefore slide along a curved path defined by the curvature of the bottom of rails in contact with the surface of the curved sliding support within pockets of blocks . As best seen in the curved path of the seat pan will have a radius R with a center of rotation located over and above the seat in front of the backrest . Preferably though not necessarily the center of rotation will be located at approximately the expected location of the center of gravity of a user. Accordingly a user seated on seat will be able to swing fore and aft about their center of gravity while it remains in a fixed orientation relative to the seat .

The backrest is mounted to the base assembly by a backrest mounting assembly . The backrest mounting assembly includes a plurality of guide brackets that extend downwardly from the curved sliding support to slidingly support and capture the curved edges of a backrest glider beneath the sliding support . In the embodiment shown two pairs of guide brackets are used. Additional pairs of guide brackets may be used to provide additional support. The edges of the backrest glider are upwardly concavely curved. An open portion is provided within the backrest glider through which the upper portion of the pedestal extends.

The backrest glider can slide fore and aft within the guide brackets . The curvature of the edges of the backrest glider causes the backrest glider to move along an upwardly concave curved path relative to the base assembly as it slides back and forth within the guide brackets . The open portion within the backrest glider permits the backrest glider to move fore and aft without interference from the upper portion of the pedestal . The backrest is mounted on a backrest support arm and the backrest support arm connects the backrest with the backrest glider as described in more detail below. Accordingly as the backrest glider slides fore and aft in the guide brackets the backrest correspondingly moves along an upwardly concave curved path relative to the base assembly .

As best seen in the upwardly concave curved path along which the backrest slides has a radius R. A center of rotation for the backrest is located generally above and over the seat in front of the backrest . Preferably though not necessarily the center of rotation for the backrest will be located at approximately the expected level of a user s center of gravity. The backrest moves relative to the base assembly independently from the seat .

It is preferable to permit adjustment of the angle of the backrest relative to the backrest glider . Therefore a rear portion of the backrest glider may be provided with a pivot member that pivotally connects a backrest support arm to the backrest glider as shown in . The backrest is connected to and supported on a rear upper portion of the backrest support arm . A threaded member including a handle is provided forwardly from the pivot member . The threaded member permits adjustment of the distance between the lower end of the backrest support arm and the backrest glider . When the lower end of the backrest support arm is drawn close to the backrest glider the backrest is adjusted towards a more reclined orientation angled away from the seat . When the lower end of the backrest support arm is moved away from the backrest glider the backrest is adjusted towards a more upright orientation. Those of skill in the art will be aware of alternative structures for adjusting the angle of the backrest relative to the backrest glider . for upwardly concaved arcuate movement of the seat.

A locking mechanism may be included to lock the Seat or the backrest in a fixed orientation relative to the base assembly. The locking mechanism is attached to the support and includes a cam member that can be selectively adjusted to frictionally engage and couple the backrest glider or rails to the sliding support . The cam member is biased towards the withdrawn position of by spring element . A lever best seen in extends from the cam member . The lever can be rotated to move the cam member to an extended position that wedges the cam member between a lower surface of the sliding support and an upper surface of the backrest glider or the lower surface of rails . In the extended position the cam member frictionally couples the backrest glider or the lower surface of rails to the sliding support such that the backrest or seat remains in a fixed orientation relative to the base assembly . Preferably the cam member will be in an over center orientation with respect to the spring element when the cam member is adjusted to the extended position so that the spring element will tend to maintain the cam member in the extended position. The locking mechanism permits the backrest to be adjusted to a desired orientation relative to the base assembly when the cam member is in the withdrawn position and then maintained in that position by adjusting the cam member to the extended position.

It is further preferable for the backrest to be adjustable relative to the backrest support arm . Therefore the backrest is alternatively mounted for sliding vertical movement along the backrest support arm . Furthermore the backrest may be tiltable relative to the backrest support arm . It should be noted that the show a single arm rest associated with the backrest . In practice two arm rests would generally be used but the left arm rest has been left out of the drawings to better show the relevant features of the present invention.

Although various representative embodiments of this invention have been described above with a certain degree of particularity those skilled in the art could make numerous alterations to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the inventive subject matter set forth in the specification and claims. All directional references e.g. upper lower upward downward left right leftward rightward top bottom above below vertical horizontal clockwise and counterclockwise are only used for identification purposes to aid the reader s understanding of the embodiments of the present invention and do not create limitations particularly as to the position orientation or use of the invention unless specifically set forth in the claims. Joinder references e.g. attached coupled connected and the like are to be construed broadly and may include intermediate members between a connection of elements and relative movement between elements. As such joinder references do not necessarily infer that two elements are directly connected and in fixed relation to each other.

In some instances components are described with reference to ends having a particular characteristic and or being connected with another part. However those skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention is not limited to components which terminate immediately beyond their points of connection with other parts. Thus the term end should be interpreted broadly in a manner that includes areas adjacent rearward forward of or otherwise near the terminus of a particular element link component part member or the like. In methodologies directly or indirectly set forth herein various steps and operations are described in one possible order of operation but those skilled in the art will recognize that steps and operations may be rearranged replaced or eliminated without necessarily departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that all matter contained in the above description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative only and not limiting. Changes in detail or structure may be made without departing from the spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

