---

title: Security classification of E-mail and portions of E-mail in a web E-mail access client using X-header properties
abstract: Web based e-mail classification is disclosed. A toolbar adds the ability to classify message such as web e-mail, calendar items and meeting appointments based on specific properties such as security classification, information type, document type, document retention, document caveats, and the like associated with the message. The toolbar through dropdown selections allows users to select the appropriate classification and properties based upon the content of the message. Administrators can predefine all the classification selections that are available to the user. E-mail classification properties are generated that are associated with the message by metadata insertion and by inserting visual markings that allow users to quickly identify the security, sensitivity, intended distribution or retention of the e-mail or calendar item. By utilizing the classification toolbar a user can classify an e-mail by one or more classification levels and be ensured that the message is delivered and processed in the appropriate manner.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08024411&OS=08024411&RS=08024411
owner: Titus, Inc.
number: 08024411
owner_city: 
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20071010
---
This application claims priority from U.S. provisional application No. 60 829 439 filed Oct. 13 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to computer systems and software and in particular to electronic mail management and security.

Software applications exist to generate many different types of electronic mail e mail . Web based e mail software allows users to access and send e mail via standard Internet browser sessions. With today s pervasive networking systems such as local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs and the Internet and software tools such as e mail it is very easy for individuals to send e mail to different computers computer systems and other individuals. As a matter of corporate security there is therefore a need to classify manage and control the creation and flow of e mail correspondence and the like.

Some web based e mail systems allow the user to indicate the importance of their e mail by assigning properties such as Low Priority Urgent etc. These properties are pre defined by the e mail software vendor and the software may not allow the assignment of properties that are really significant to the user such as security level the type of information being created or identification of what distribution restrictions should be placed on an e mail. The properties defined and supported by the software cannot be easily modified by users or administrators and offer limited value in a corporate environments that have higher security and distribution considerations than the normal importance levels. As a result there is no way to communicate various classifications project associations and intended distribution of the e mail. In addition current systems do not allow the classification of electronic calendar items and meeting requests.

When classified e mails are opened by recipients using different e mail software other than the one used by the sender the properties will often not be reflected to the recipient. As a result the person receiving the e mail has no easy way to identify the classification or importance of the e mail or calendar item and they therefore do not know what limitations should be placed on the handling and distribution of the e mail. In addition compliance systems verifying the handling or distribution of the e mail have no way to decide what to do as there are no meaningful properties attached to the document.

There is therefore a need for an improved classification and management system for web based electronic e mail.

In an aspect there is provided a method for message classification in a web e mail client comprising the steps creating a message form within a Outlook Web Access client window launching classification toolbar within the message form the classification toolbar providing at least a first classification selection input populating classification selections in the classification toolbar based upon pre defined classification criteria receiving a classification selection input selected by a user from the classification selections populated in the toolbar determining if classification input is valid based upon administrator defined classification policy and assigning x header properties to the message metadata based upon the classification selections if the classification input is valid.

In accordance with another aspect there is provided a system for message classification in a web e mail client comprising a memory a processor for executing the steps of creating a message form within a web e mail client window launching classification toolbar within the message form the classification toolbar providing at least a first classification selection input populating classification selections in the classification toolbar based upon pre defined classification criteria receiving a classification selection input selected by a user from the classification selections populated in the toolbar determining if classification input is valid based upon administrator defined classification policy and assigning x header properties to the message metadata based upon the classification selections if the classification input is valid.

In accordance with yet another aspect there is provided a computer readable medium containing instructions for message classification in a web e mail client the instructions which when executed by a processor perform the steps of creating a message form within a web e mail client window launching classification toolbar within the message form the classification toolbar providing at least a first classification selection input populating classification selections in the classification toolbar based upon pre defined classification criteria receiving a classification selection input selected by a user from the classification selections populated in the toolbar determining if classification input is valid based upon administrator defined classification policy and assigning x header properties to the message metadata based upon the classification selections if the classification input is valid.

Other aspects and features will become apparent to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon review of the following description of specific embodiment of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures.

It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings like features are identified by like reference numerals.

Due to compliance legislation such as the Sarbanes Oxley Act in the United States or more precisely the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act of 2002 policies such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA or other legal or corporate guidelines there is a need for greater security of information. Companies need to be able to determine the classification of e mail so that their employees will handle these e mails correctly in terms of security distribution and retention. The best way to do this is to generate recognizable classification properties and visual markers in the e mails when they are being created so that everyone will know the level of sensitivity of the e mail and how to handle them. The creation of metadata properties which travel with the e mail also allows automatic processes to check the handling of the e mail. For example a messaging gateway or content scanner can verify the classification of e mails being sent out of the company for any violations of corporate policy. Heretofore this could not be done by common corporate e mail application such as Microsoft Outlook Web Access OWA software. Corporate software such as OWA software cannot force the user to enter any classification properties before an e mail is sent or saved and provide little no ability to define classifications relative to corporate needs.

Current web based e mail systems do not modify the e mail in any way as a result there are no visual markings in the e mail message or calendar message that would identify the classification properties. Without visual markings the user has no easy way of identifying the classification importance distribution or information type. The web based e mail classification system disclosed adds the ability to classify e mail messages calendar items and meeting appointments messages. The classification can be performed based on content specific properties such as security classification information type document type document retention document caveats and the like. A new toolbar is provided which integrates with web e mail client such as the OWA environment. This toolbar through dropdown selections allows users to select the appropriate classification levels. Administrators can predefine the classification selections that are available to the user and limit actions available to the user in regards to the content and classification level selected. E mail properties are generated that are associated with the e mail or calendar messages through insertion of metadata and by inserting visual markings that allow users to quickly identify the security sensitivity intended distribution or retention of the e mail or calendar item. By utilizing the classification toolbar a user can now classify the message content quickly such as a classification of secret and handle the message appropriately. Message classification automatically creates a property which identifies the message as secret this is not viewable by the user and inserts the word SECRET marking in visible areas such as the subject line and in the first and last lines of the message body of the message. This enables the client or server to limit distribution of the e mail and the respective content and enable the end user to visibly see the classification assigned by the sender without difficulty.

As there is no published application programming interface API for Microsoft Outlook Web Access in order to add classification support to OWA the actual JavaScript code needs to be changed and enhanced. As a result a very good understanding of the original Microsoft OWA code is required. Because the JavaScript code is modified any time that the web client provider issues a new version or service pack the system needs to be modified resulting in slightly different code for each version. In order to be able to ship only one version of the system an install process is utilized that can recognize the current running version service pack fix of client and install the correct code. This was done by calculating a hash of the web client code and verifying on installation.

E mail administrators can also choose a retention based model to classify the information to enforce retention with labels such as Personal Retain for 1 Year and Corporate Correspondence. After a label is assigned to the e mail the e mail can then be sent as usual. Third party archiving and retention systems can decide if or how to retain a corporate e mail based on the retention property assigned. After classification labels have been assigned to e mail message classification for OWA creates custom properties to reflect the classification. These e mail properties can be used as search criteria on a PC or network . For example using the Microsoft Outlook Search utility administrators could find all e mail on the network which have been classified as COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL. Message Classification for OWA can also optionally insert the classification s into the e mail subject line and the first and or last line of the message body.

Event driven logic is utilized to force user to classify an e mail before send save or print of an e mail or calendar item and will be described in more detail below. All SAVE PRINT and SEND events are interpreted within the OWA software and ensures that classification selections have been made before these actions. Prevention or warning can be displayed when the user attempts to downgrade a classification on Reply or Forward. In the downgrade prevent mode if the user tries to downgrade the classification for example from SECRET to UNCLASSIFIED they can be prevented from sending the message. Alternatively the e mail can be automatically classified based on the users profile. For example all users in the finance department could be configured to automatically apply a classification of FINANCIAL INFO to all their e mail. Visual markings in the subject line or the first line last line of the message body can be automatically inserted based upon the selected classification by modifying the HTML content of the message.

Classification selection enables the automatic creation of properties that will travel with the e mail. Trusted label support provides verification that classification of the e mail has not been modified tampered with in transit since e mail was sent which can be done by calculating a hash of the message properties on send and recalculating the hash on receipt of the message. In addition the classification policy allows users to search a network or PC for e mail with specific classifications using basic Microsoft supplied search tools such as the Microsoft Outlook Search. In addition automatic logging of all classification actions by the user can be provided which can be used to audit user compliance. All classification warnings classification errors or all classification events who classified when classification properties assigned name of document etc can be logged and reviewed by an administrator.

Context sensitive classification selections which change based on user selection can also be provided by the toolbar. For example if the user selects CONFIDENTIAL as a classification they can then be prompted to indicate which department generated the confidential information and how long the information should be retained as a corporate record. The logic is the same as that described above the only difference being that in this case the second level classification is used to indicate the department name rather than the retention period.

Administrator defined settings are captured in the settings.js file which is the central source of configuration information. This enables customization of the list of labels for classification ability for administrator to configure warnings or prevent users from downgrading classifications on a reply or forward of an e mail ability for administrator configuration to apply different customized signatures at the bottom of message depending on the classification selected administrator can define default labels define if when the label s will appear in the first or last line of the message define the formatting and color of any visual marking text in the first and last line of the message define if when the label s will appear in the message subject line including the ability to display abbreviations of the classifications force the user to make an explicit selection of a label before saving or sending the e mail and sort and search a PC s or network s message database based on the message s classification.

This example can be extended to many levels of classification allowing the organizations to collect many classification properties for each e mail or calendar item. Although an e mail message is shown a calendar based message such as a meeting request can also utilize the toolbar shown.

High level functions are available to the user when composing or sending a new message through operation of the toolbar. These functions are also available if the user wants to apply classification information to a message received that currently has no classification properties. These functions include selecting Classification from dropdowns in toolbar forcing selection of classification on Send or Save from popup dialog adding text prefix or postfix to the message adding HTML prefix or postfix to the message adding Subject line marking prefix or postfix is added to message subject line and creating classification metadata and x headers. These high level functions of the toolbar provide for interpreting classification properties and or classification metadata and x headers viewing Classifications from toolbar viewing text HTML formatting in prefix or postfix of message viewing Subject line marking prefix or postfix in message subject line and providing a downgrade warning or preventing a Reply Forward.

The following describes the logic of the software and the associated triggered actions. The system adds functionality to the Microsoft OWA client Microsoft OWA is referred to here as existing files or functions . It does this by modifying the files on the Microsoft Exchange server that sit in the Exchange directory default location of C Program Files Exchsrvr exchweb .

Summary Set all things on the message related to the classification selection like the message subject

As shown in metadata may be associated in customizable x header properties of the message metadata which can be created that represent the selected classifications. The x header are added to e mail or message metadata such as defined by RFC 2822 These x headers can be created in many different formats including in the Australian Protective Marking Standard format and the MIP format. A general classification line identifies the first level of classification selected. A full classification identification line includes all levels associated with the message for example a first classification of UNCLASSIFIED and secondary level GENERAL BUSINESS. Additional levels may be identified as required. Each level can then be individual identified at and . These entries may provide more details or properties associated with the classification if required. In the case of a forwarding or replying scenario the original classification can also be provided which permits determination of permitting or denying these actions based upon policies implemented on the client or server. The property name in the header can be customized to reflect the organization and are not limited to the ones shown. For instance the following x header could be generated for a government organization x govt classification CONFIDENTIAL RETAIN FOR 90 DAYS. Standard metadata can also be included in the message in addition to a hash code based upon the classification setting to enable the server or client to determine if the classification is authentic or has been tampered with. The classification information may be stored in e mail metadata or may alternatively be stored as XML properties in the e mail instead as Microsoft Outlook MAPI or SMTP headers. Generally classification is applied to the whole e mail however it may be applied alternatively applied on the paragraph elements of the e mail enabling only portions of the content to be associated with a classification level and appropriate action to be taken only in terms of the identified text. It should be understood that the structure of the metadata may be configured by any number of ways and is not limited to the implementation described.

Although Microsoft OWA has been discussed alternate corporate web mail clients such as Lotus Notes Web Mail may be utilized. In addition web e mail classification may be utilized to create other e mail properties such as associate project case number file number patient number customer number program name or number or other similar properties as required. The selection of classification properties from other user interface elements in addition to described toolbar such as popup dialog or additional windows or headers that would accept input above the e mail may be provided.

By adding a classification toolbar to a web client and imposing classification identification at the client interface user recognizable classification properties and visual markings can be added Microsoft Outlook Web Access e mail and calendar items when they are sent or when they are received to ensure a level of security and confidence to e mail communications not previously provided. In addition classification distribution and retention of valuable or sensitive corporate e mail is enabled.

It will be apparent to persons skilled in the art that many alternatives modifications and variations can be made without departing from the scope as defined in the claims. The method steps described may be embodied in sets of executable machine code stored in a variety of formats such as object code or source code. Such code is described generically herein as programming code or a computer program for simplification. Clearly the executable machine code may be integrated with the code of other programs implemented as subroutines by external program calls or by other techniques as known in the art.

A computing environment for executing the web client and the disclosed classification toolbar may be implemented as computer software in the form of computer readable code executed. The computing environment may be any number of computing or computer based platforms such as mobile devices personal computer notebook computers or personal digital assistants. The computer comprises central processing unit CPU and memory. The CPU may be a single processor or multiprocessor system. In various computing environments main memory and storage can reside wholly on computer environment or they may be distributed between multiple computers.

Input devices such as a keyboard and mouse may be coupled to a bi directional system bus of a computer for receiving input for creating messages within the web client. The keyboard and mouse are for introducing user input to a computer and communicating that user input to processor if required. Computer may also include a communication interface. Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling via a network link to a network by wired or wireless connection or may provide an interface to other host devices by a direct radio frequency connection. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals which carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Communication between the communication interface unit and the network or host use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals which carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

The computer processor or similar device may be programmed in the manner of method steps or may be executed by an electronic system which is provided with means for executing these steps. The storage device may include both fixed and removable media such as magnetic optical or magnetic optical storage systems Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM or any other available mass storage technology. The storage device or media may be programmed to execute such method steps. As well electronic signals representing these method steps may also be transmitted via a communication network.

The embodiments described above are intended to be illustrative only. The scope of the invention is therefore intended to be limited solely by the scope of the appended claims.

