---

title: Sidelobe blanking characterizer system and method
abstract: According to a particular embodiment, a method for evaluating different antenna designs includes receiving different sets of antenna patterns representative of the different antenna designs from a corresponding number of data sources. The different sets of antenna patterns are applied to a characterizer component for generating a sidelobe banking (SLB) characteristic map for each set of antenna patterns received. A SLB effectiveness chart is generated from the SLB characteristic map. A best antenna weighting set is selected based on which auxiliary antenna pattern exhibits the best performance. The best of antenna weighting factors are used for designating the antenna design having superior SLB performance characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07728764&OS=07728764&RS=07728764
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 07728764
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071019
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N00024 04 C 5340 awarded by The Department of the Navy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to antenna system design and more particularly to radar systems that utilize sidelobe blanking SLB for suppressing interference signals.

In many radar applications stray signals may enter the radar through the sidelobes of the main antenna and may be interpreted as main beam signals. This results in false detections and angle error. Sidelobe blanking SLB has been commonly used to suppress such signals when they are impulsive low duty cycle whether they are due to sidelobe jammers strong targets or discrete clutter echoes. The principle of SLB is to inhibit detection when such signals appear in the radar sidelobes.

In his 1968 paper entitled Performance of Sidelobe Blanking Systems Maisel Pub. Info introduced what has come to be regarded as the classic SLB architecture. Maisel was concerned with the case where detection was based on a single radar pulse from a target with a constant radar cross section RCS and defined expressions for some of the relevant performance probabilities for evaluating SLB characteristics. These include Probabilities of Blanking Pb Probabilities of False Alarm Pfa and Probabilities of Detection Pd . Farina and Shnidman have extended Marisel s work to include some expressions for certain types of target fluctuations.

The classic SLB architecture defined by Maisel has two antennas and associated receiver channels i.e. main and auxiliary channels . The main antenna exhibits a relatively narrow main beam to interrogate its field of view and receive corresponding echo radiation therefrom. The auxiliary antenna implemented as a single omni directional element to the antenna system exhibits a much broader main beam having less gain compared to the narrow main beam to receive the echo radiation. The auxiliary antenna gain is designed to be higher than the maximum sidelobe level of the main channel antenna pattern. The SLB logic circuits compare the signals processed by the two channels and determine whether or not to blank the main radar channel i.e. decides that the echoes come from the sidelobes and blanks the echo . When the main channel output is larger than a suitable blanking threshold level that is based on the auxiliary channel output the main channel signal is processed as usual i.e. it is submitted to the conventional circuits of the radar to ascertain whether a target is present in the searched direction . If this is not the case then the main channel signal is inhibited or blanked i.e. decided that the echoes come from the sidelobes and the echo is blanked .

As illustrated in the main goal of the SLB design is to select the parameter gain margin which is the difference in dB between the sidelobes of the main antenna and the auxiliary antenna gain . The numerical calculations of the Pb Pfa and Pd parameters are necessary to select the proper values of F and consequently of the auxiliary antenna gain given the maximum sidelobe level G . These calculations are described in the article entitled Design of SLB systems in the presence of correlated ground clutter by A. Farina and F. Gini published in IEE Proceedings Radar Sonar Navigation Vol. 147 No. August 2000. The use of Pb Pd and Pfa rely on many system parameters including SLB gain margin detection threshold SLB threshold target signal to noise ratio interference to noise ratio including jammer and clutter and SLB configuration before and after detection . One problem with this approach is that it is difficult to make comparison with multiple variables. Thus the results do not reflect the performance of SLB antennas but instead are controlled by the system parameters. Further the number of described approaches that compare the probabilities of blanking illustrate that there are too many parameters to manage.

Another approach involves comparing the cumulative percentage of gain margin. In this case as illustrated in the method involves comparing the cumulative percentage of gain margin defined as the gain difference between the auxiliary and main antennas at corresponding angular positions as denoted by the shaded area in . The diagram also illustrates a typical distribution of the gain margin in a bell shaped curve. As shown the cumulative percentage is usually reversed one minus the percentage . The disadvantage is that this method relies on a single point comparison which is inaccurate.

The above prior art approach is further illustrated as follows. C and D illustrate an example of a set of antenna patterns corresponding to a main beam pattern and auxiliary A and B sidelobe patterns. illustrates a v plane cut of the antenna patterns the auxiliary B pattern appears low because the v plane cut is on its null. illustrates cumulative percentage at 0 gain margin. That is the results of the second approach of computing cumulative percentage of the gain margin of the auxiliary A and auxiliary B sidelobe patterns. Comparing the cumulative percentage of gain shows the auxiliary A sidelobe pattern having a higher cumulative percentage at gain margin values 0 while the auxiliary B sidelobe pattern has higher cumulative percentage at gain margins

In addition to the above the SLB systems discussed above are usually fixed during their design and hence they are not adaptive during real time operations. That is SLB is effective at identifying interference from pulsed interference sources in the sidelobe directions. Thus when there are platform motion or element or sub array failures SLB becomes less effective at identifying interference.

Accordingly it is an object to provide a method of providing an effective SLB capability for inclusion in an antenna design.

It is another object of the present invention to provide a method of providing effective SLB during real time operation.

The above and other objects are achieved according to an illustrated embodiment of the method and system of the present invention which includes a SLB component for improving the effectiveness of sidelobe blanking operations through the combining of multiple dimension data into a single figure of merit comparison. In the illustrated embodiment of a radar system the SLB component corresponds to a sidelobe blanking characterizer component positioned between a radar data processor and beam steering generator of the radar system. The radar data processor provides several sets of antenna patterns which are used by the characterizer component to compute gain margins according to the teachings of the present invention which takes into account main beam sidelobe distribution.

From the computed gain margins the characterizer component generates SLB characteristic maps which are used to evaluate SLB performance. The use of a SLB characteristic map provides a much less complex method for evaluating antenna design independent of other system parameters which were discussed previously. Based on such SLB characteristic maps the characterizer component generates SLB effectiveness charts which it uses to compare SLB performance and determine which set of main and auxiliary antenna patterns has the best performance. The set of antenna patterns having the best performance determines the best set of weighting factors e.g. an index associated with the set of antenna patterns is used to lookup the best set of weighting factors . That is it is the set of weighting factors to be used to generate the set of antenna patterns that is selected according to its performance. The weighting factors can be either computed in real time or pre computed in advance in a conventional manner for the different sets of antenna patterns whose gain margins were computed by the characterizer component.

During real time operation of the radar system of the illustrated embodiment the characterizer component is used to select the set of best weighting factors corresponding to the set of antenna patterns provided by the main and auxiliary antenna elements determined to have the best performance. The best set of weighting factors are then used for adapting the operation of the radar system to changes in conditions such as platform motion for shipboard applications and antenna element failures. More specifically the weighting factors of the best set are sent to the auxiliary antenna phase array elements and to the beam steering generator for controlling the direction of the main beam of the main antenna i.e. for steering the main beam to produce the desired antenna pattern result which compensates for antenna element or sub array failures and platform motion during real time operations. It will be noted that the antenna elements do not change but the weighting factors controlling the elements cause the generation of the desired antenna pattern result. Providing optimum SLB performance becomes particularly important where the number of antenna elements within an antenna system is not very large e.g. small antenna systems . In such cases antenna element failures can seriously impact SLB performance.

The method and apparatus of characterizer component of the present invention are also equally usable as an antenna design tool wherein the selection of the set of best antenna patterns can be used in determining the best design approach. In this case sets of antenna patterns are applied as inputs to the characterizer component which represent the different antenna design approaches which are to be compared.

Additional objects features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the following detailed description of the illustrated embodiment exemplifying the best mode of carrying out the invention as presently perceived.

Referring to there is shown an illustrative embodiment of the present invention which comprises a phased array radar system incorporating the method and SLB system of the present invention. As shown system includes a plurality of conventional components that are generally found in a phased array radar system. These components include main and auxiliary antenna channels and respectively a radar data processor coupled to a display unit and a beam steering generator arranged as shown.

The system also includes a SLB detector circuit which can also be considered conventional in design and is described in the previously cited articles. According to the teachings of the present invention the system further includes a SLB characterizer component. The SLB characterizer component is coupled or connected between radar data processor and beam steering generator as shown.

The components of will now be described in greater detail. Each of the main and auxiliary antenna channels and receive radar antenna input signals from the main and auxiliary antenna elements respectively of a phased array antenna system not shown . As well known in the art the phased array antenna system is implemented with a large number of antenna radiating elements which are individually excited. Each radiating element is fed by a transmit receive T R module represented by blocks and in . Each T R module includes post and preamplifiers attenuators and phase shifters.

In the transmit mode the radar data processor supplies beam pointing direction signals to beam steering generator . Beam steering is provided by generator which is carried out by the main antenna only. The T R modules delay the excitation of selected radiating elements. For this type of antenna adequate delays can be supplied by adjusting the phase of the excitation signals applied by the antenna T R modules to the radiating elements hence the term phased array antennas is used. The T R module phase shifters are used for controlling the phase and the attenuators e.g. digitally controlled are used for controlling the amplitude.

In the receive mode the outputs of the T R modules and of antenna channels and respectively are applied to receivers and whose outputs are fed to signal processors . Each signal processor applies the signals to the SLB detector whose output is applied to radar data processor . In the illustrated embodiment the main and auxiliary channels and are implemented with the same components.

The auxiliary antenna of the antenna system is omni directional and has gains higher than that of any of the radar antenna sidelobes. Such arrangements are discussed in the article entitled Systolic Schemes for Joint SLB SLC and Adaptive Phased Array by A. Farina L. Timmoneri Alema Marconi Systems published in the 2000 IEEE International Radar Conference. It is well known in the art that the number and arrangement of antenna elements may be selected to suit the requirements of the system and that the number dictates the number of lobes which are generated and the width of the main beam.

Still referring to as described in the above referenced Farina articles the SLB detector circuit conventional in design includes a sidelobe blanking circuit which controls a switch gate circuit . The SLB detector circuit receives output sidelobe pattern signals SA from the auxiliary antenna channel and main beam sidelobe output pattern signals S in addition to a blanking threshold F that is a system design parameter. The circuit compares the sidelobe output pattern signals S to SA. Only the output signals of the main channel are passed through the gate circuit to radar data processor that are stronger than the output sidelobe signals of the auxiliary channels by the amount of the blanking threshold F in dB.

The radar data processor in response to antenna status report information such as element sub array failure or platform motion provides sets of antenna pattern data as inputs to the SLB characterizer component. For the purpose of the illustrated embodiment the report information is generated in a well known manner and therefore is not discussed further herein. The SLB characterizer component could be implemented and included inside the radar data processor in the beam steering generator or in a separate processor component as described herein. Additionally radar data processor also provides appropriate weighting factor sets for the sets of antenna pattern data . Further the radar data processor includes a direction control unit which produces beam pointing direction signals applied as inputs to the beam steering generator for establishing the beam pointing direction of the main beam received from the main antenna channel . The weighting factor sets are generated in a conventional manner to compensate for the failed elements sub array or platform motion. The process of computing weighting coefficients is described in section 9.1.2 of the text entitled The Handbook of Antenna Design by A. W. Rudge K. Milne A. D. Oliver and P. Knight IEE Electromagnetic Wave Series published by Peter Peregrinus Ltd. London UK Copyright 1982 1983. The computed weighting coefficients could be generated off line for sets of sample antenna patterns and stored within the radar data processor .

As discussed above the SLB characterizer component can be implemented in any radar system to characterize its SLB capability by evaluating its antenna patterns as a function of the different modes of radar system operation. In an antenna system an antenna pattern is a far field spatial response which is obtained by calculating the Fast Fourier Transform of its antenna excitations i.e. weighting factors . Using known antenna pattern synthesis techniques these antenna excitations are pre determined to ensure that they meet the antenna specifications of sidelobe levels and aperture efficiency which are derived for satisfying requirements for radar system compliance.

In summary the antenna pattern is obtained by calculating the Fast Fourier Transform of the weighting factors as a function of the radar antenna system s operational mode and scan angles. Next the weighting factors are selected by using various pattern synthesis techniques so as to meet the antenna sidelobe and aperture efficiency requirements which are defined by radar system engineers for meeting different radar system requirements driven by various threat scenarios.

An example of the above radar processor operation in responding to antenna status report information pertaining to element sub array failure will now be described with reference to . Referring to an example is shown of adjusting the weighting coefficients after element sub array failure. The group of gray colored squares on the left most side represent the weighting coefficients for an antenna in a normal condition. The second group of squares on the left shows a white square which represents a failed element or sub array. This element is supposed to carry a coefficient of 4 but now is 0. One of the methods used to compensate for this failure is to shift its coefficients to the neighboring element. There are 8 immediate neighboring elements but to maintain symmetry they can only be the one above and the one below the failed element. The second right group shows that the weighting above the failed element is increased from 5 to 6. The right most group shows that the weighting below the failed element is increased from 3 to 4. To determine which of the two methods of compensations is a better solution the SLB characterizer component takes the antenna patterns generated from these sets of weighting coefficients to produce comparison result as described later herein.

Referring to the SLB characterizer component will now be described in greater detail. As shown component includes a plurality of modules through . The module computes gain margin for each set of antenna patterns generated by radar data processor applied to main antenna sidelobe data input and auxiliary antenna data and data inputs obtained from the data processor . The radar data processor computes several sets of antenna patterns using different weighting factors according to the current outage of antenna components and platform motion included in the status report information discussed above. As indicated above this information is produced in a conventional manner known to one skilled in the art.

The outputs from module are applied to the SLB characteristic map generator module which generates SLB characteristic maps according to the teachings of the present invention. The map outputs are applied to the effectiveness charts generator module which produces the effectiveness charts from the SLB characteristic maps by an oblique projection method technique of the present invention described herein relative to . The resulting effectiveness charts are applied to the comparison and decision module which selects the best set of antenna patterns based on the results in the effectiveness charts according to the teachings of the present invention.

Referring to it will be appreciated that the modules of the characterizer component may be implemented by software modules which perform the functions and operations illustrated in . The modules will now be described in greater detail with reference to those figures. illustrates the overall operation or process of the characterizer component in selecting the best set of auxiliary and main antenna patterns from the sets of antenna patterns applied to the inputs of gain margin computation module .

The SLB Characterizer component operation is based on SLB gain margin and the sidelobe distribution of the main antenna. The methodology according to the teachings of the present invention is to compare SLB gain margin at the corresponding main antenna sidelobe level positions. The concept is that assuming two SLB antennas with the same SLB gain margins the one at the lower sidelobe of the main beam is always better because the lower antenna gain results in lower probability of false alarm detection Pfa .

Referring to and the methodology can be divided into two broad steps. The first step is to generate a SLB Characteristic Map such as the one in . In that figure the SLB characteristic map in the lower right corner shows gain margin distribution on the vertical axis and the main beam sidelobe distribution on the horizontal axis. The charts on the top and the left side are the distribution charts of the corresponding axis showing the cumulative distribution of sidelobe level and the cumulative distribution of gain margin. The second step is to generate the SLB Effectiveness Chart from the SLB Characteristic Map using the oblique projection technique method. As stated this technique is illustrated in . It will be described in greater detail with reference to .

Referring to and when multiple SLB Effectiveness Charts are overlaid on the same axis by the SLB Characterizer component the best antenna weighting factors set is selected with the lowest distribution or distribution at the lowest sidelobe. Examples of the ease of making such selections utilizing the teachings of the present invention are illustrated in and in .

The example in uses two auxiliary antenna patterns designated as case s and case n of respectively. Both auxiliary antenna patterns have similar cumulative percentage 99.8 of Gain Margin 0 dB. Therefore selecting the set having the best performance would be most difficult. However it is obvious that the negative Gain Margin region of case s is at the lower sidelobe level than the case n. That means case s is less sensitive to interference which it may not be able to blank out. The SLB Effectiveness Chart in shows the average sidelobe level of case n is higher than case s. By considering the average sidelobe level on the SLB Effectiveness Chart the decision of selecting case s now becomes straight forward. show another example of using AUX A and AUX B antenna patterns. Again the SLB Effectiveness Chart of shows the average sidelobe level of pattern AUX A is higher than pattern AUX B. Thus it is easily seen that pattern AUX B is a better choice of the two auxiliary antenna patterns.

Referring now to and illustrates a flow chart of the process algorithm of selecting the best antenna pattern and weighting factor sets based on which antenna pattern set has the best performance according to the teachings of the present invention. The flowchart includes blocks or modules through and it is assumed that at least two sets of antenna patterns are available for the selection. As indicated by blocks and in the characterizer component performs a process which starts by generating a SLB Characteristic Map for each set of antenna patterns . illustrates in greater detail the steps performed by module of in generating an SLB Characteristic Map.

Referring to and illustrates the ranges of indices on the axes of the SLB Characteristic Map. After generating the SLB Characteristic Map the characterizer process searches for the main beam tip in the Map as indicated in block of . Since the main beam tip is always located at the right most edge of the Characteristic Map i.e. index s 100 the search is conducted along the Gain Margin axis index g as indicated in . Next the location of the main beam tip is marked as g offset as indicated in .

For the threshold setting later in the process indicated in block the Averaged Gain Margin gm ave of the SLB Characteristic Map is computed as indicated in block . The computation is carried out in a straightforward manner and it is the sum of all the Gain Margin values divided by the number of samples in the Characteristic Map. Before moving on to the next step the next set of antenna patterns is processed by characterizer component until all the Maps are generated.

Referring to the first aspect important to the understanding of the present invention is the SLB Characteristic Map. The details of block in generating the SLB Characteristic Map will now be described with reference to the flowchart of . The process goes through each data point of the antenna patterns as indicated in block . Each data point is an angular location of the antenna patterns which location unit could be expressed in sine space degrees or radians. At each data point the main beam pattern mostly sidelobe value in dB is quantized to the map index s .

This index value has a range between 1 and 100 and is offset to cover the range from 99 dB to 0 dB. Assuming the main beam pattern and the auxiliary antenna pattern are angularly aligned the Gain Margin at the same index value is computed as aux main in dB as indicated in block . The Gain Margin is then quantized to index g in the range between 1 and 100 as indicated in block . The value g is offset to cover the range of 49 dB to 50 dB of Gain Margin. As indicated in block the SLB Characteristic Map is constructed by counting the distribution of the Gain Margin index g versus the main beam sidelobe values index s . also illustrates the ranges of the indices on the axes of the SLB Characteristic Map. It will be noted that since both axes have the same unit of 1 dB per division the main beam always forms a straight line at an angle of 45 degrees.

Referring to it is seen that once the SLB Characteristic Maps are generated by characterizer component the process then constructs in a well known manner a comparison tree structure pursuant to block of . The tree structure provides the storage mechanism for the intermediate results as well as the further comparison path between the intermediate results. When the traverse through the tree structure has reached the final node the comparisons are complete. This tree structure is a tournament like combination of every two SLB Characteristic Maps and is illustrated in . As indicated in the decision tree provides for the selection of the best set of antenna patterns which corresponds to the output of block in . Based on such selection an index associated with that set of patterns is used to lookup or obtain the set of best weighting factors as indicated in block of . For example an index can be used to identify a stored data structure containing a set of antenna patterns and its set of weighting factors for generating such set of antenna patterns. From such index the corresponding set of weighting factors for the best set of antenna patterns can be obtained via a simple table lookup operation. Other conventional ways of relating a set of weighting factors to a particular set of antenna patterns can also be used.

As indicated in block for each combination of two sets or Characterizer Maps the threshold T is selected as the minimum of the two averaged Gain Margins as indicated in block . The threshold T is used to generate the SLB Effectiveness Chart from the SLB Characteristic Map as indicated in block . Then the averaged value A and total area C of the SLB Effectiveness Chart are calculated as indicated in block . These two steps are repeated for the second Characteristic Map as indicated in blocks and . As indicated in block the characterizer component finally selects one of the two sets of Characteristic Maps for further comparison with the next combination of Characteristic Maps based on the averaged values and the total areas.

Referring to the second aspect important to the understanding of the present invention which is the generation of the SLB Effectiveness Chart will now be described. The details of generating this chart will now be described with reference to the flowcharts of . illustrates the process of generating the SLB Effectiveness Chart and shows the relationship between the SLB Characteristic Map and the SLB Effectiveness Chart. The SLB Effectiveness Chart only considers the portion of the SLB Characteristic Map where the Gain Margin is between the main beam tip g offset and the threshold T. This is the weakest area having the lowest Gain Margin of the sidelobe blanking system. As indicated in block of for each index to this area the process only considers the Characteristic Map value that is greater than zero as indicated in block . The index ip to the SLB Effectiveness Chart is computed in the manner indicated in block according to the following equation 101 101  offset cos 45 . This ip equation is based on the geometry of projecting the data to an axis parallel to the main beam. shows an example of the relationship between the SLB Characteristic Map and the SLB Effectiveness Chart at a Point being transformed with the ip equation broken down into steps. As indicated in block the next step is the boundary check of the index ip before carrying out the step of accumulating the Characteristic Map value to the Effectiveness Chart indicated in block .

Referring to this flow chart illustrates the process of computing the averaged value A and the total area C of the SLB Effectiveness Chart of block of . The process goes through the Effectiveness Chart using index ip as indicated in block of . For each indexed location the chart value is accumulated as the total area and the product of index ip and the chart value is accumulated as the sum as indicated in block . At the end the averaged value A is calculated as the sum divided by the total area C as indicated in block .

The flowchart of illustrates the selection process according to the teachings of the present invention. Referring to when the averaged values A A and the total areas C C of both sets have been calculated the process then selects the better of the two sets based on these calculated values as indicated in block of . As indicated in block of the first line of decision making is based on the total area . The total area in the SLB Effectiveness Chart represents the probability of having poor Gain Margin. In other words the higher the total area is the worse the performance of the sidelobe blanking will be. When one of the total areas is much greater than the other greater than 10 difference as established by blocks and the decision is obvious and selection is made via one of the sets of blocks and based on the result given by block . When both total areas have similar values less than 10 difference the corresponding averaged values are then compared by blocks and based on the results produced by blocks and . Based on the comparison one of the blocks and indicates which set is better. The averaged value in the SLB Effectiveness Chart represents position of the poor Gain Margin values relative to the tip of the main beam. The higher the averaged value is the closer it is to the main beam and the sidelobe blanking is less effective.

Referring to and a verification of the results obtained by the present invention is illustrated through the use of the parameters Probabilities of False Alarm Pfa and Probabilities of Detection Pd . As shown the selected best set of patterns corresponds to the AUX B which is less susceptible to interference from sidelobes and has a higher Pd under the same conditions.

The operation of the SLB Character component of the present invention within the radar system of will now be described with reference to . The circles in are used to denote processes and the lines arrows are used to represent signal data transfers taking place between such processes.

It will be appreciated that there are multiple threads of processes being executed by the signal processors and the radar data processor of which are shown as being divided by the dashed vertical line in . The first thread Thread includes processes functions and . This thread is executed normally at a fast pace or rate and its execution is repeated for as long as the radar system is operating i.e. executing transmit and receive cycles of operation . The second thread Thread includes processes and . This thread executes or runs in the background and is activated whenever there is a change in system operational status such as a change in platform motion or antenna element failure. The execution of the second thread results in providing the radar system with a new best set of weighting factors in accordance with the teachings of the present invention as described herein. The other processes and are executed at different paces or rates and may belong to other threads that are not shown in this simplified diagram.

In greater detail as shown two of the processes of the first thread corresponding to main beam signal processing and auxiliary beam signal processing receive signals corresponding to the main beam and auxiliary beam patterns respectively from the main and auxiliary channels and of . Both processes are invoked to start a next transmit and receive cycle of operation in response to a resource period start signal generated by a scheduler process . The scheduler process also applies a similar start signal to a beam steering interface process . The interface process controls the operation of the beam steering generator of . More specifically it prepares the beam steering generator for the next transmit and receive cycle by providing a new set of weighting factors corresponding to the best of weighting factors in addition to providing a beam pointing direction signal as indicated in . This is done when there has been a change in conditions e.g. platform motion or antenna element failure as described herein.

The data signals from processing the main and auxiliary antenna patterns are applied to a sidelobe blanking task process which in turn provides the blanking of interference signals according to the parameters pre established by the SLB circuit of . As shown in the resulting output signal from the SLB task process is then applied to the processes and for performing the functions of target tracking and target reporting in a conventional manner. The output signal from the target reporting process is then sent to a command center not shown associated with the radar system of .

As shown in the scheduler process also sends a fault monitoring FM start signal to invoke a fault monitoring process at a regular interval of a much slower pace. When the fault monitoring process discovers change to the system it generates different sets of weighting factors which can be used to compensate for the condition change. An example of this was described in connection with . As indicated in the different sets of weighting factors are applied to an antenna pattern synthesizer process which in turn generates the corresponding sets of antenna patterns. These sets of antenna patterns are applied to a SLB characterizer process which corresponds to the SLB characterizer component of . The SLB characterizer process determines the best set of weighting factors in accordance with the teachings of the present invention in the manner described above. As shown in this best set of factors is provided to the beam steering interface process for adapting radar system SLB circuit performance to the detected change in conditions.

The operation of the SLB Characterizer component of the present invention was simulated using a simulation testbed tool. The tool was implemented on a standard microprocessor system running under a Window based operating system. The testbed tool simulation model was developed using the matrix based Matlab programming language. This language was selected because of its built in graphics capability and the inherent programming structure that can later be converted to the C programming language or a simulation language for compilation and faster execution as well as its portability. The listing of the testbed tool is provided in the enclosed Appendix.

It will be appreciated that the simulation testbed can be used for determining which antenna design has the best SLB performance utilizing the characterizer component according to the teachings of the present invention. In this application the sources of main and auxiliary antenna patterns would correspond to the sets of patterns obtained from different antenna designs. Thus it is obvious that the Appendix essentially represents a MATLAB implementation of such a test tool.

From the above description of the illustrated embodiment it is seen how the use of a SLB characteristic map provides a relatively less complex method of evaluating antenna designs independent of other system parameters such as detection threshold signal to noise ratio and system configuration discussed above.

Also the above description has also shown how the generation and comparison of SLB effectiveness charts in accordance with the teachings of the present invention makes antenna selection much less complex by taking into account main beam sidelobe distribution which is in contrast to the described prior art approach of using cumulative percentage of gain margin. That is the SLB characterizer component uses the SLB effectiveness charts to select the set of best antenna weighting factors and provides the ability for a radar system to adapt to antenna component failures and ship motion.

This invention has been disclosed in terms of an illustrated embodiment. However it will be apparent that many modifications can be made to the disclosed apparatus without departing from the invention. For example the modules of the characterizer component could be implemented using well known hardware components such as programmable logic arrays etc. Therefore it is the intent of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

The following notations used herein have the following equivalent designations used in the description and drawings of the illustrated embodiment 

1st AUX Beam AUX A 2nd AUX Beam AUX B GM Map SLB Characteristic Map and Punch through chart SLB Effectiveness Chart.

