---

title: Methods and apparatus for RLC re-transmission schemes
abstract: A method includes sending to a receiving device from a transmitting device a Radio Link Control (RLC) re-transmission scheme selected from a plurality of RLC re-transmission schemes, and using the selected and sent scheme at least at one of the receiving device and the transmitting device. In another exemplary non-limiting embodiment the method includes detecting, at the receiver, a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit (PDU) sequence numbers, associating a timer with the gap, and starting the timer when the gap is detected. In still another exemplary non-limiting embodiment, the method includes detecting a gap in a RLC PDU sequence, monitoring a HARQ channel for a period of time to determine if a predetermined bit has changed, and determining if a transmission is lost.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290428&OS=08290428&RS=08290428
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08290428
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071203
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 868 859 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING RE ORDERING INDICATION which was filed Dec. 6 2006. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 883 920 entitled RLC PDU RE ORDERING INDICATION which was filed Jan. 8 2007 and U.S. Provisional Patent application Ser. No. 60 884 163 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING RE ORDERING INDICATION which was filed Jan. 9 2007. The entireties of the aforementioned applications are herein incorporated by reference.

The following description relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to methods and apparatus for Radio Link Control RLC layer re transmission schemes and their selection.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . . . . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems 3GPP LTE systems orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM localized frequency division multiplexing LFDM orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like.

Generally a wireless multiple access communication system can simultaneously support communication for multiple wireless terminals. Each terminal communicates with one or more base stations via transmissions on the forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from the base stations to the terminals and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations. This communication link may be established via a single in single out multiple in signal out or a multiple in multiple out MIMO system.

A MIMO system employs multiple N transmit antennas and multiple N receive antennas for data transmission. A MIMO channel formed by the Ntransmit and Nreceive antennas may be decomposed into Ns independent channels which are also referred to as spatial channels where N min N N. Each of the Ns independent channels corresponds to a dimension. The MIMO system can provide improved performance e.g. higher throughput and or greater reliability if the additional dimensionalities created by the multiple transmit and receive antennas are utilized.

A MIMO system supports a time division duplex TDD and frequency division duplex FDD systems. In a TDD system the forward and reverse link transmissions are on the same frequency region so that the reciprocity principle allows the estimation of the forward link channel from the reverse link channel. This enables the access point to extract transmit beam forming gain on the forward link when multiple antennas are available at the access point.

In a wireless communication system a Node B or base station may transmit data to a user equipment UE on the downlink and or receive data from the UE on the uplink The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from the Node B to the UE and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from the UE to the Node B. The Node B may also send control information e.g. assignments of system resources to the UE. Similarly the UE may send control information to the Node B to support data transmission on the downlink and or for other purposes.

Previously protocol data units PDUs have been transmitted in order. Now a hybrid automatic retransmission request HARQ layer uses multiple transmission paths and the PDUs are not always transmitted in order. Additionally the HARQ layer and the RLC layer do not directly talk to each other. The RLC layer will wish to send protocol data units PDUs . The HARQ layer will actually transmit the PDUs via multiple channels. However the RLC layer does not currently with multiple paths know that all the PDUs were actually received. Therefore there is a need for the RLC layer to know when to re transmit PDUs.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment a method includes sending to a receiving device from a transmitting device a Radio Link Control RLC re transmission scheme selected from a plurality of RLC re transmission schemes and using the selected and sent scheme at least at one of the receiving device and the transmitting device. In another exemplary non limiting embodiment the method includes detecting at the receiver a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit PDU sequence numbers associating a timer with the gap and starting the timer when the gap is detected. In still another exemplary non limiting embodiment the method includes detecting a gap in a RLC PDU sequence monitoring a HARQ channel for a period of time to determine if a predetermined bit has changed and determining if a transmission is lost.

In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment the plurality of re transmission schemes includes at least one receiver side scheme and one transmitter side scheme. In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment provided herein are means for detecting at a Radio Link Control RLC receiver a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit PDU sequence numbers means for associating a timer with the gap and means for starting the timer when the gap is detected. In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment a method used in a wireless communication system includes detecting at a Radio Link Control RLC receiver a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit PDU sequence numbers associating a timer with the gap and starting the timer when the gap is detected.

In accordance with yet another exemplary non limiting embodiment a computer readable medium includes code for detecting at a Radio Link Control RLC receiver a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit PDU sequence numbers code for associating a timer with the gap and code for starting the timer when the gap is detected. In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment a method used in wireless communication system includes detecting a gap in a RLC PDU sequence monitoring a HARQ channel for a period of time to determine if a predetermined bit has changed and determining if a transmission is lost. The method can include receiving a Radio Link Control RLC re transmission scheme selected from a plurality of RLC re transmission schemes. The method can include transmitting to a user equipment UE a Radio Link Control RLC retransmission scheme selected from a plurality of RLC re transmission schemes.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more embodiments. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and the described embodiments are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment a method includes sending to a receiving device from a transmitting device a Radio Link Control RLC re transmission scheme selected from a plurality of RLC re transmission schemes and using the selected and sent scheme at least at one of the receiving device and the transmitting device. In another exemplary non limiting embodiment the method includes detecting at the receiver a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit PDU sequence numbers associating a timer with the gap and starting the timer when the gap is detected. In still another exemplary non limiting embodiment the method includes detecting a gap in a RLC PDU sequence monitoring a HARQ channel for a period of time to determine if a predetermined bit has changed and determining if a transmission is lost.

In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment the plurality of re transmission schemes includes at least one receiver side scheme and one transmitter side scheme. In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment provided herein are means for detecting at a Radio Link Control RLC receiver a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit PDU sequence numbers means for associating a timer with the gap and means for starting the timer when the gap is detected. In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment a method used in a wireless communication system includes detecting at a Radio Link Control RLC receiver a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit PDU sequence numbers associating a timer with the gap and starting the timer when the gap is detected.

In accordance with yet another exemplary non limiting embodiment a computer readable medium includes code for detecting at a Radio Link Control RLC receiver a gap in RLC Protocol Data Unit PDU sequence numbers code for associating a timer with the gap and code for starting the timer when the gap is detected. In accordance with an exemplary non limiting embodiment a method used in wireless communication system includes detecting a gap in a RLC PDU sequence monitoring a HARQ channel for a period of time to determine if a predetermined bit has changed and determining if a transmission is lost. The method can include receiving a Radio Link Control RLC retransmission scheme selected from a plurality of RLC re transmission schemes. The method can include transmitting to a user equipment UE a Radio Link Control RLC re transmission scheme selected from a plurality of RLC re transmission schemes.

In addition various aspects of the disclosure are described below. It should be apparent that the teaching herein may be embodied in a wide variety of forms and that any specific structure and or function disclosed herein is merely representative. Based on the teachings herein one skilled in the art should appreciate that an aspect disclosed herein may be implemented independently of any other aspects and that two or more of these aspects may be combined in various ways. For example an apparatus may be implemented and or a method practiced using any number of the aspects set forth herein. In addition an apparatus may be implemented and or a method practiced using other structure and or functionality in addition to or other than one or more of the aspects set forth herein. As an example many of the methods devices systems and apparatuses described herein are descried in the context of an ad hoc or unplanned semi planned deployed wireless communication environment that provides repeating ACK channel in an orthogonal system. One skilled in the art should appreciate that similar techniques could apply to other communication environments.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software software in execution firmware middle ware microcode and or any combination thereof. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal . Additionally components of systems described herein may be rearranged and or complemented by additional components in order to facilitate achieving the various aspects goals advantages etc. described with regard thereto and are not limited to the precise configurations set forth in a given figure as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a subscriber station. A subscriber station can also be called a system a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A subscriber station may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem or similar mechanism facilitating wireless communication with a processing device.

Moreover various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally various storage media described herein can represent one or more devices and or other machine readable media for storing information. The term machine readable medium can include without being limited to wireless channels and various other media capable of storing containing and or carrying instruction s and or data.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

As used herein the terms to infer or inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

The scheme selection techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA and SC FDMA systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and Low Chip Rate LCR . Cdma2000 covers. IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDMO etc. These various radio technologies and standards are known in the art.

UTRA E UTRA and GSM are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . Long Term Evolution LTE is an upcoming release of UMTS that uses E UTRA. UTRA E UTRA GSM UMTS and LTE are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Cdma2000 is described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 16 3GPP2 . For clarity certain aspects of the techniques are described below for downlink transmission in LTE and 3GPP terminology is used in much of the description below.

LTE utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM on the downlink and single carrier frequency division multiplexing SC FDM on the uplink. OFDM and SC FDM partition the system bandwidth into multiple N orthogonal subcarriers which are also commonly referred to as tones bins etc. Each subcarrier may be modulated with data. In general modulation symbols are sent in the frequency domain with OFDM and in the time domain with SC FDM. For LTE the spacing between adjacent subcarriers may be fixed and the total number of subcarriers N may be dependent on the system bandwidth. In one design N 512 for a system bandwidth of 5 MHz N 1024 for a system bandwidth of 10 MHz and N 2048 for a system bandwidth of 20 MHz. In general N may be any integer value.

The system may support a frequency division duplex FDD mode and or a time division duplex TDD mode. In the FDD mode separate frequency channels may be used for the downlink and uplink and downlink transmissions and uplink transmissions may be sent concurrently on their separate frequency channels. In the TDD mode a common frequency channel may be used for both the downlink and uplink downlink transmissions may be sent in some time periods and uplink transmissions may be sent in other time periods. The LTE downlink transmission scheme is partitioned by radio frames e.g. 10 ms radio frame . Each frame comprises a pattern made of frequency e.g. sub carrier and time e.g. OFDM symbols . The 10 ms radio frame is divided into plurality of adjacent 0.5 ms sub frames also referred to as sub frames or timeslots and interchangeably used hereinafter . Each sub frame comprises plurality of resource blocks wherein each resource block made up of one or more sub carrier and one or more OFDM symbol. One or more resource blocks may be used for transmission of data control information pilot or any combination thereof.

Referring to a multiple access wireless communication system according to one embodiment is illustrated. An access point AP includes multiple antenna groups one including and another including and and an additional including and . In only two antennas are shown for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas may be utilized for each antenna group. Access terminal AT is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to access terminal over forward link and receive information from access terminal over reverse link . Access terminal is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to access terminal over forward link and receive information from access terminal over reverse link . Access terminals and can be UEs. In a FDD system communication links and may use different frequency for communication. For example forward link may use a different frequency than that used by reverse link .

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designed to communicate is often referred to as a sector of the access point. In the embodiment antenna groups each are designed to communicate to access terminals in a sector of the areas covered by access point .

In communication over forward links and the transmitting antennas of access point utilize beam forming in order to improve the signal to noise ratio of forward links for the different access terminals and . Also an access point using beam forming to transmit to access terminals scattered randomly through its coverage causes less interference to access terminals in neighboring cells than an access point transmitting through a single antenna to all its access terminals.

An access point may be a fixed station used for communicating with the terminals and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B or some other terminology. An access terminal may also be called an access terminal user equipment UE a wireless communication device terminal access terminal or some other terminology.

In an embodiment each data stream is transmitted over a respective transmit antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data for each data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream may be multiplexed with pilot data using FORM techniques. The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and may be used at the receiver system to estimate the channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream is then modulated i.e. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. BASK ASK M PSF or M QAM selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream may be determined by instructions performed by processor .

The modulation symbols for all data streams are then provided to a TX MIMO processor which may further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In certain embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beam forming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and up converts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are then transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At receiver system the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and down converts a respective received signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor then receives and processes the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. The RX data processor then demodulates deinterleaves and decodes each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at transmitter system . A processor periodically determines which pre coding matrix to use. Processor formulates a reverse link message comprising a matrix index portion and a rank value portion.

The reverse link message may comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message is then processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to transmitter system .

At transmitter system the modulated signals from receiver system are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reserve link message transmitted by the receiver system . Processor then determines which precoding matrix to use for determining the beam forming weights then processes the extracted message.

In an aspect logical channels are classified into Control Channels and Traffic Channels. Logical Control Channels comprises Broadcast Control Channel BCCH that is DL channel for broadcasting system control information. Paging Control Channel PCCH which is DL channel that transfers paging information. Multicast Control Channel MCCH which is Point to multipoint DL channel used for transmitting Multimedia Broadcast and Multicast Service MBMS scheduling and control information for one or several MTCHs. Generally after establishing a Radio Resource Control RRC connection this channel is only used by UEs that receive MBMS Note old MCCH MSCH . Dedicated Control Channel DCCH is Point to point bi directional channel that transmits dedicated control information and used by UEs having an RRC connection. In aspect Logical Traffic Channels comprise a Dedicated Traffic Channel DTCH that is Point to point bi directional channel dedicated to one UE for the transfer of user information. Also a Multicast Traffic Channel MTCH for Point to multipoint DL channel for transmitting traffic data.

In an aspect Transport Channels are classified into DL and UL. DL Transport Channels comprises a Broadcast Channel BCH Downlink Shared Data Channel DL SDCH and a Paging Channel PCH the PCH for support of UE power saving DRX cycle is indicated by the network to the UE broadcasted over entire cell and mapped to PHY resources which can be used for other control traffic channels. The UL Transport Channels comprises a Random Access Channel RACH a Request Channel REQCH an Uplink Shared Data Channel UL SDCH and plurality of PHY channels. The PHY channels comprise a set of DL channels and UL channels.

In an aspect a channel structure is provided that preserves low signal peak to average PAR values and at any given time the channel is contiguous or uniformly spaced in frequency that is a desired property of a single carrier waveform.

While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with the claimed subject matter occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the claimed subject matter.

In Long Term Evolution LTE Radio Link Control RLC Protocol Data Units PDUs may be delivered out of sequence due to Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest HARQ . In LTE the RLC layer uses the HARQ layer to transmit the RLC PDUs. Since the HARQ layer uses multiple HARQ channels for transmission in parallel the RLC PDUs may be delivered out of order at the receiving C. Even though there is a re ordering buffer at the RLC receiver to re order the RLC PDUs received from different HARQ channels when there is a gap in the received RLC PDU sequence numbers the receiver cannot immediately conclude that those PDUs corresponding to the gap are missing since they may still be in the process of delivery at the HARQ layer.

As a result some RLC PDUs that have not been received may appear missing when they are in fact still being delivered by the HARQ. Thus the receiving RLC may not send an RLC Nak negative acknowledgment to correct the problem immediately.

Then the problem becomes how the receiving RLC determines the RLC PDUs are truly missing so that it may send an RLC Nak to request for retransmission. There are at least two schemes to solve this problem.

In an aspect rely on HARQ and do not rely on RLC Nak at all. The transmitting HARQ indicates to the transmitting RLC whether the RLC PDU s have been delivered successfully by the HARQ layer. There are two cases where the HARQ could fail the delivery 

1 The maximum number of HARQ retransmissions is reached and the encoder packet is still not decoded correctly.

Under the first scheme HARQ is completely relied on and RLC Nak is not counted on at all. The transmitting HARQ may notify the transmitting RLC that the RLC PDUs was not delivered and the transmitting RLC may then initiate an RLC retransmission without any RLC Nak. The transmitting HARQ indicates to the transmitting RLC whether the RLC PDU s have been delivered successfully by the HARQ layer. There are two cases where the HARQ may fail the delivery set forth above and it is envisioned that by allowing such indication the transmitting RLC entity can detect a RLC PDU s transmission failure and hence it can resubmit the same RLC PDU s to the HARQ layer for new transmission without waiting for the receiving RLC to detect the failure. This scheme is currently agreed upon in the LTE standard. The drawback of this scheme is it fails to cover case 2 above. In order to cover case 2 extra over the air overhead is needed which is not agreed upon.

Under the second scheme the receiving RLC detects whether the RLC PDUs are truly missing by monitoring the activities of the HARQ channels. Once a gap in the RLC PDU sequence number occurs at the receiver the receiving RLC monitors the subsequent activities of the HARQ channels e.g. the new packet indicator changes on an HARQ channel and derives that it is impossible that the missing PDUs are still being retransmitted by the HARQ i.e. the RLC PDUs corresponding to the gap are indeed lost . The HARQ uses the new packet indicator toggles it between 0 and 1 when a new encoder packet is sent to distinguish between a newly transmitted encoder packet and a retransmitted encoder packet so the receiving HARQ knows whether to combine the received encoder packets with any previous copies received. Once the missing PDUs are detected the RLC sends an RLC Nak to the RLC transmitter to request for retransmission. This scheme is currently being considered in the LTE standard. The appeal of this scheme is that it does not need extra over the air overhead and it covers both case 1 and case 2 above.

Either of the foregoing described schemes works on their own independently with different efficiency . However with the first scheme active the retransmitted RLC PDUs may cause the new packet indicator to change and the RLC receiver can no longer make the same conclusion.

Thus it is desirable for the transmitting side to indicate to the receiving side which scheme the receiving side should expect or perform under. In certain aspects of the present disclosure an indication e.g. in the form of a RLC configuration message when setting up DL RLC may be transmitted from the transmitting side to the receiving side where the indication indicates which scheme the receiver should perform under or expect.

If the system decides to use the first scheme but not the second scheme a HARQ Nak to Ack error may not be detected by the HARQ. As a result the RLC transmitter may think the corresponding RLC PDUs in the encoder packet were received successfully when in fact they were not. To address this problem in certain aspects of the present disclosure it is proposed to associate a timer with the gap detected at the RLC receiver. The timer may be started whenever the gap is detected and it may expire either when the gap is filled or when a fixed time is reached. The fixed time value may be adjusted based on the delay requirement e.g. stringent delay requirement means smaller timer . For example if the delay requirement for RLC is 100 ms measured from the point SAP of RLC transmitter to the SAP of the RLC receiver including all delays incurred by HARQ and RLC retransmissions the timer may be set to say 54 ms. However if the timer is too small unnecessary RLC retransmissions may be created. If the timer is too big the retransmitted RLC PDUs may not meet the delay requirement. This timer may be set by the eNode B based on the delay requirement and signaled to the UE per RLC flow or it may be adaptively computed if the UE knows the delay requirements.

Which of the foregoing described scheme is better depends on whether the network implements the first scheme. If the first scheme is used the best strategy is to use a timer in the RLC receiver as described above. This combo would give reasonable performance with minimal complexity at the receiver. The reason is illustrated as follows.

Thus the first scheme may fail 10 3 or 0.1 of the time. Therefore only 0.1 of the time the timer may be relied upon to recover. The P 2nd tx decoded successful is here to show that the number is small and therefore all the computations follow are reasonable estimates as opposed to exact numbers . E.g. another NAK ACK misdetection scenario is not addressed. 1st tx failed AND 2nd tx failed AND NAK is detected as ACKed. However the probability will be so small due to P 2nd tx successful being 0.99.

However if the first scheme is not used by the network then the second scheme is desired since it does not require any over the air overhead.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an example of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged while remaining within the scope of the present disclosure. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium in the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

The herein description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

For a multiple access system e.g. FDMA OFDMA CDMA TDMA etc. multiple terminals can transmit concurrently on the uplink. For such a system the pilot subbands may be shared among different terminals. The channel estimation techniques may be used in cases where the pilot subbands for each terminal span the entire operating band possibly except for the band edges . Such a pilot subband structure would be desirable to obtain frequency diversity for each terminal. The techniques described herein may be implemented by various means. For example these techniques may be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. For a hardware implementation which may be digital analog or both digital and analog the processing units used for channel estimation may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof. With software implementation can be through modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory unit and executed by the processors.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware implementation the processing units may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination thereof.

When the embodiments are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage component. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software implementation the techniques described herein may be implemented with modules e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described herein. The software codes may be stored in memory units and executed by processors. The memory unit may be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various means as is known in the art.

Because at least a portion of the communication between the device and a network such as a SFN are wireless the security layer is provided in one exemplary generalized non limiting embodiment. The security layer can be used to cryptographically protect e.g. encrypt data as well as to digitally sign data to enhance security and unwanted unintentional or malicious disclosure. In operation the security component or layer can communicate data to from both the SFNs and the mobile device .

An encryption component can be used to cryptographically protect data during transmission as well as while stored. The encryption component employs an encryption algorithm to encode data for security purposes. The algorithm is essentially a formula that is used to turn data into a secret code. Each algorithm uses a string of bits known as a key to perform the calculations. The larger the key e.g. the more bits in the key the greater the number of potential patterns can be created thus making it harder to break the code and descramble the contents of the data.

Most encryption algorithms use the block cipher method which code fixed blocks of input that are typically from 64 to 128 bits in length. A decryption component can be used to convert encrypted data back to its original form. In one aspect a public key can be used to encrypt data upon transmission to a storage device. Upon retrieval the data can be decrypted using a private key that corresponds to the public key used to encrypt.

A signature component can be used to digitally sign data and documents when transmitting and or retrieving from the device . It is to be understood that a digital signature or certificate guarantees that a file has not been altered similar to if it were carried in an electronically sealed envelope. The signature is an encrypted digest e.g. one way hash function used to confirm authenticity of data. Upon accessing the data the recipient can decrypt the digest and also re compute the digest from the received file or data. If the digests match the file is proven to be intact and tamper free. In operation digital certificates issued by a certification authority are most often used to ensure authenticity of a digital signature.

Still further the security layer can employ contextual awareness e.g. context awareness component to enhance security. For example the contextual awareness component can be employed to monitor and detect criteria associated with data transmitted to and requested from the device . In operation these contextual factors can be used to filter spam control retrieval e.g. access to highly sensitive data from a public network or the like. It will be understood that in aspects the contextual awareness component can employ logic that regulates transmission and or retrieval of data in accordance with external criteria and factors. The contextual awareness employment can be used in connection with the artificial intelligence AI layer .

The AI layer or component can be employed to facilitate inferring and or determining when where how to dynamically vary the level of security and or the amount of echoing. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event s and data source s .

The AI component can also employ any of a variety of suitable AI based schemes in connection with facilitating various aspects of the herein described innovation. Classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that a user desires to be automatically performed. The AI layer can be used in conjunction with the security layer to infer changes in the data being transferred and make recommendations to the security layer as to what level of security to apply.

For example a support vector machine SVM classifier can be employed. Other classification approaches include Bayesian networks decision trees and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

Additionally the sensor can be employed in conjunction with the security layer . Still further human authentication factors can be used to enhance security employing sensor . For instance biometrics e.g. fingerprints retinal patterns facial recognition DNA sequences handwriting analysis voice recognition can be employed to enhance authentication to control access of the storage vault. It will be understood that embodiments can employ multiple factor tests in authenticating identity of a user.

The sensor can also be used to provide the security layer with generalized non human metric data such as electromagnetic field condition data or predicted weather data etc. For example any conceivable condition can be sensed for and security levels can be adjusted or determined in response to the sensed condition.

It can also be appreciated that an object such as can be hosted on another computing device etc. or etc. Thus although the physical environment depicted can show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment can alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. any of which can employ a variety of wired and wireless services software objects such as interfaces COM objects and the like.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many of the networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any of the infrastructures can be used for exemplary communications made incident to optimization algorithms and processes according to the present innovation.

In home networking environments there are at least four disparate network transport media that can each support a unique protocol such as Power line data both wireless and wired voice e.g. telephone and entertainment media. Most home control devices such as light switches and appliances can use power lines for connectivity. Data Services can enter the home as broadband e.g. either DSL or Cable modem and are accessible within the home using either wireless e.g. HomeRF or 802.11A B G or wired e.g. Home PNA Cat 5 Ethernet even power line connectivity. Voice traffic can enter the home either as wired e.g. Cat 3 or wireless e.g. cell phones and can be distributed within the home using Cat 3 wiring. Entertainment media or other graphical data can enter the home either through satellite or cable and is typically distributed in the home using coaxial cable. IEEE 1394 and DVI are also digital interconnects for clusters of media devices. All of these network environments and others that can emerge or already have emerged as protocol standards can be interconnected to form a network such as an intranet that can be connected to the outside world by way of a wide area network such as the Internet. In short a variety of disparate sources exist for the storage and transmission of data and consequently any of the computing devices of the present innovation can share and communicate data in any existing manner and no one way described in the embodiments herein is intended to be limiting.

The Internet commonly refers to the collection of networks and gateways that utilize the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols which are well known in the art of computer networking. The Internet can be described as a system of geographically distributed remote computer networks interconnected by computers executing networking protocols that allow users to interact and share information over network s . Because of such wide spread information sharing remote networks such as the Internet have thus far generally evolved into an open system with which developers can design software applications for performing specialized operations or services essentially without restriction.

Thus the network infrastructure enables a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as an example computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as servers where servers etc. maintain the data that is then replicated to client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can be processing data or requesting services or tasks that can implicate the optimization algorithms and processes in accordance with at least one generalized non limiting embodiment.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the optimization algorithms and processes of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment can be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s can be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

Thus illustrates an exemplary networked or distributed environment with server s in communication with client computer s via a network bus in which the herein described echoing or supporting one SFN with another SFN can be employed. In more detail a number of servers etc. are interconnected via a communications network bus which can be a LAN WAN intranet GSM network the Internet etc. with a number of client or remote computing devices etc. such as a portable computer handheld computer thin client networked appliance or other device such as a VCR TV oven light heater and the like in accordance with the present innovation. It is thus contemplated that the present innovation can apply to any computing device in connection with which it is desirable to communicate data over a network.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. Servers etc. can also serve as clients etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned communications can be wired or wireless or a combination where appropriate. Client devices etc. can or cannot communicate via communications network bus and can have independent communications associated therewith. For example in the case of a TV or VCR there can or cannot be a networked aspect to the control thereof. Each client computer etc. and server computer etc. can be equipped with various application program modules or objects etc. and with connections or access to various types of storage elements or objects across which files or data streams can be stored or to which portion s of files or data streams can be downloaded transmitted or migrated. Any one or more of computers etc. can be responsible for the maintenance and updating of a database or other storage element such as a database or memory for storing data processed or saved according to at least one generalized non limiting embodiment. Thus the present innovation can be utilized in a computer network environment having client computers etc. that can access and interact with a computer network bus and server computers etc. that can interact with client computers etc. and other like devices and databases .

As mentioned the innovation applies to any device wherein it can be desirable to communicate data e.g. to a mobile device. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the present innovation i.e. anywhere that a device can communicate data or otherwise receive process or store data. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the present innovation can be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction. Thus the present innovation can be implemented in an environment of networked hosted services in which very little or minimal client resources are implicated e.g. a networked environment in which the client device serves merely as an interface to the network bus such as an object placed in an appliance.

Although not required at least one generalized non limiting embodiment can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the component s of at least one generalized non limiting embodiment. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the innovation can be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing at least one generalized non limiting embodiment includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media.

The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer can also include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. For example computer could include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable non volatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. A hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices can include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through user input and associated interface s that are coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics subsystem can also be connected to the system bus . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which can in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which can in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a communications component such as a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. A communications component such as a modem which can be internal or external can be connected to the system bus via the user input interface of input or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in a remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

