---

title: Organizing context-sensitive search results
abstract: Methods and apparatus assessing, ranking, organizing, and presenting search results associated with a user's current work context are disclosed. The system disclosed assesses, ranks, organizes and presents search results against a user's current work context by comparing statistical and heuristic models of the search results to a statistical and heuristic model of the user's current work context. In this manner, search results are assessed, ranked, organized, and/or presented with the benefit of attributes of the user's current work context that are predictive of relevance, such as words in a user's document (e.g., web page or word processing document) that may not have been included in the search query. In addition, search results from multiple search engines are combined into an organization scheme that best reflects the user's current task. As a result, lists of search results from different search engines can be more usefully presented to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07627565&OS=07627565&RS=07627565
owner: Perfect Market, Inc.
number: 07627565
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070131
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 764 041 filed Jan. 31 2006 entitled Methods and Apparatus For Ranking Organizing and Presenting Search Results. 

The present disclosure relates in general to searching computerized information repositories and in particular to methods and apparatus for assessing ranking organizing and presenting search results associated with a user s current work context.

Many people use a variety of different computer based information sources such as search engines e.g. Google MSN Yahoo etc. to find information they are seeking. Typically users are looking for information relevant to a work task in which they are currently engaged. For example a user may be interested in information related to a topic already displayed be a web browser or a user may be interested in information related to a word processing document they are currently working on e.g. a word processing document . Typically the user enters a query into an input box and the search engine examines data associated with thousands of documents. The search engine then sends the user list of search results. In an effort to help users find relevant information quickly most information sources rank search results for presentation to the user thereby reducing the user s need to wade through a long list of search results. For example documents that a search engine determines to be most relevant to the user s query are typically placed first in a list of search results.

Typically search engines use some form of term frequency inverse document frequency TF IDF ranking algorithm or some similar method to determine this presentation order or other organization scheme. TF IDF scores documents in direct proportion to the number of query terms present in the document and in inverse proportion to some function of the number of times the query terms appear in the information repository as a whole. In other words documents with many occurrences of rare query terms are ranked highly. In addition other factors may be used to rank the documents such as the number of times other documents reference that document. Search engines might also display the documents retrieved based on data associated with the retrieved documents. For example documents labeled with the same subject area might be presented in the same folder.

One problem with this method of ranking organizing and presenting retrieved documents when seeking information related to a user s current work context is that the query terms alone are used to assess the relevance of the search results in the course of retrieval. However most search engines place limitations on the length of the query and or limitations on other aspects of the manner in which the search may be specified e.g. the types of constraints that may be specified on desired results . For example a search engine may limit the number of terms in a query to five or the search engine may not contain a method for specifying a date range. In general however the user s current context is typically too complex to be represented in such a compressed and simplified form. For example if the document the user is currently working on an important aspect of the user s context has more than five relevant terms but a search engine only accepts queries that are five words long the query alone is not necessarily the best representation of the user s current work context with which to assess relevance since the user s current document e.g. web page or word processing document contains information beneficial to assessing the relevance of a search result that is not easily communicated to the search engine in the form of a query. Other properties of the user s current work context for example their task e.g. drafting a legal document stage in that task their role in an organization e.g. lawyer the nature of that organization e.g. a law firm specified areas of interest e.g. patents the application in which they are working e.g. a word processor the document genre or type e.g. legal brief or resume or their past behavior might also be important aspects of assessing the relevance of a given search result. Therefore assessing ranking organizing and presenting search results associated with the user s context simply using a query acceptable to a given search engine may not produce the best results.

Moreover as described above the user s current document by itself typically does not constitute the entire user context in terms of which relevance of information should be assessed. Other factors including but not limited to the user s task the state of that task the organization for which the work is being performed the user s role in that organization explicit user indications the application in which the user is working on the document the document genre etc. may also important in determining a ranking organization and presentation of search results that truly reflects the user s information needs.

Consider for example the task of writing a scientific research paper. Presentations to others may be given before the work is more broadly published. Therefore at the beginning of the writing task it may be useful to assemble information by the author that very closely matches the first drafts of the paper so that those prior writings may be reused. Later in the process when the author is assembling related work it may be desirable to relax those constraints so as to provide a broader more complete set of search results. In this example the stage and type of task influence the character of the search results desired. However it may not be possible to specify this directly to a typical search engine.

In addition the best strategy for presenting information should be determined. For example while composing an electronic mail message prior messages sent to and or received from the recipients of the current message may be retrieved. These messages may be presented next to the email editor window organized in headers labeled by the name of the recipient. Messages in each header may also be organized in a ranked list where items on the top of the list are ordered from most to least similar to the contents of the body of the message being composed. The system may also draw icons next to each email recipient indicating the presence of the additional information. When the user moves his her mouse over those icons the system may present the best matching email so as to give the user a preview of the available information. In contrast while shopping online and viewing a product information might be displayed in a window next to the user s web browser organized in categories. Reviews of that product may be organized in one category accessories in another category and prices under yet another category. An improved search system should be able to determine how to present information to the user using a strategy that works better for the work context in which the user is currently engaged.

Another problem with relying solely on the rankings or organization schemes provided by search engines themselves occurs when querying multiple information sources. Different information sources typically do not use the same scoring algorithm in determining what to return and what order to return it in or in determining how to organize and present these results. As a result ranking and or organizing scores associated with results from different search engines if returned to the requester of the search at all typically cannot reliably be used to combine multiple result lists into combined results lists. This is typically acceptable only if information from different information sources is presented under different headings e.g. one heading for each information source . If however headings are defined functionally or by content rather than just by information source then a common assessment ranking organization and presentation system may be needed in order to determine which results would be most useful to the user which results should be presented to the user and how the results should be organized and presented to the user e.g. in what order . Similarly if a unified view of information from a variety of information sources is desired a common assessment ranking organization and presentation system may be needed.

The system described herein solves these problems by automatically generating search queries based on the user s current work context. For example a user s work context may include different aspects such as text associated with a website or a word processing document as well as a task associated with the user such as the task of budgeting. The user s current work context may include the document the user is currently working on e.g. a web page or a word processing document as well as other variables as described herein. The system disclosed herein then automatically searches assesses ranks organizes and presents the search results based on a rich model of the user s current work context instead of simply relying on the user entered search queries and the search engine s assessments rankings etc. because the search engine assessments rankings etc. are based on the much more limited search query provided to the information source. In certain embodiments the system described herein accomplishes this by comparing statistical and heuristic models of the search results to a statistical and heuristic model of the user s current work context including the document currently being manipulated by the user. As described in detail below this is an improvement over existing search engines e.g. Google MSN Yahoo etc. .

The first problem is solved because search queries are automatically generated each time the user s current context changes and or periodically and the limitations each search engine places on the query or results format and expressiveness are not also limitations on algorithms that may be used to assess rank organize and present search results. For example such algorithms may represent the user s current work context using more than five terms or using features of the user s work context other than just terms of the sort usable in search queries. For example the search results may be ranked with the benefit of other words in the user s current document that may not have been included in the search query. For example a search engine query may be limited to the terms dog and cat but a particular search result and the user s current document may also contain the word mouse making one search result potentially more relevant than another search result that contains the words dog and cat but does not contain the word mouse. Other features such as the task the user is currently performing in a desktop application may be used to inform the ranking and presentation of search results. For example if the user is viewing a contact in a personal information management application such as Microsoft Outlook home pages for the contact person might be ranked more highly than other retrieved documents and could be presented in a separate folder in the list of search results retrieved.

The second problem is solved because search results from multiple search engines can be analyzed and organized together by the same algorithm based on the same information about the user s current work context. For example bold face words in a current word processing document may be given additional raking weight and search results from different search engines can be usefully compared with each other in terms of potential relevance to the user s current work context and so for example meaningfully combined into a single ranked list or other unified presentation scheme which may itself be determined by the user s current work context.

The present system is most readily realized in a network communications system. A high level block diagram of an exemplary network communications system is illustrated in . The illustrated system includes one or more client devices one or more routers a plurality of different information sources including database servers and or databases and one or more context based search systems . Each of these devices may communicate with each other via a connection to one or more communications channels such as the Internet and or some other data network including but not limited to any suitable wide area network or local area network. It will be appreciated that any of the devices described in the examples herein may be directly connected to each other instead of over a network. In addition any combination of devices described in the examples herein may be embodied in a single device.

The information sources store a plurality of files programs and or web pages in one or more databases for use by the client devices . For example a database server may be associated with a publicly available search engine such as Google MSN or Yahoo . In addition a database server may include commercial databases such as Lexis and Westlaw . Still further a database server may be a local database server such as a corporate intranet server. The databases may be connected directly to the database servers and or via one or more network connections.

Data from the information sources which is relevant to content in documents displayed on the client devices is sent to the client devices via the communications channel . For example a user of a client device may be viewing a web page related to an automobile and the client device may receive a list of hyperlinks to other web pages related to that automobile. In one embodiment the information sources communicate directly with each client device . In other embodiments the information sources communicate with the client devices via a search system .

One information source and or one search system may interact with a large number of other devices. Accordingly each information source and or search system is typically a high end computer with a large storage capacity one or more fast microprocessors and one or more high speed network connections. Conversely relative to a typical server or in some embodiments system each client device typically includes less storage capacity a single microprocessor and a single network connection.

A more detailed block diagram of the electrical systems of an example client device is illustrated in . Although the electrical systems of different client devices may be similar the structural differences between these devices are well known. For example a typical handheld client device is small and lightweight compared to a typical personal computer .

The example client device includes a main unit which preferably includes one or more processors electrically coupled by an address data bus to one or more memory devices other computer circuitry and one or more interface circuits . The processor may be any suitable processor such as a microprocessor from the INTEL PENTIUM family of microprocessors. The memory preferably includes volatile memory and non volatile memory. Preferably the memory stores a software program that interacts with the other devices in the system as described below. This program may be executed by the processor in any suitable manner.

In this example the memory includes a context generation module a query generation module a result modeling module an assessment organization and ranking module and a search result display module . The context generation module examines documents e.g. web pages e mails word processing documents slide presentations spread sheets etc. and other variables e.g. user task and task state application type document genre user role etc. to create context models as described below. The query generation module forms multiple information queries targeted to multiple information sources as described in detail below. The result modeling module examines search results e.g. summaries web pages documents etc. to create search result models as described in detail below. The assessment and organization and ranking module compares search results models to original context models to assess rank and organize search results from single or more usually multiple information sources as described in detail below. The search result display module displays ranked and organized search results received from the search system to the user e.g. in a sidebar to the associated document as described below. The memory may also store other information such as digital data indicative of documents files programs web pages etc. retrieved from another computing device and or loaded via an input device .

The interface circuit may be implemented using any suitable interface standard such as an Ethernet interface and or a Universal Serial Bus USB interface. One or more input devices may be connected to the interface circuit for entering data and commands into the main unit . For example the input device may be a keyboard mouse touch screen track pad track ball isopoint and or a voice recognition system.

One or more displays printers speakers and or other output devices may also be connected to the main unit via the interface circuit . The display may be a cathode ray tube CRTs liquid crystal displays LCDs a plasma device or any other type of display. The display generates visual displays of data generated during operation of the client device . For example the display may be used to display search results received from the search system including data from multiple information sources . The visual displays may include prompts for human input run time statistics calculated values data etc.

One or more storage devices may also be connected to the main unit via the interface circuit . For example a hard drive CD drive DVD drive a flash device and or other storage devices may be connected to the main unit . The storage devices may store any suitable type of data. The client device may also exchange data with other network devices via a wireless transceiver and or a connection to the network . The network connection may be any suitable type of network connection such as an Ethernet connection digital subscriber line DSL telephone line coaxial cable etc.

In some embodiments a context based search system is used. A more detailed block diagram of a context based search system is illustrated in . A main unit in the search system preferably includes a processor electrically coupled by an address data bus to a memory device and a network interface circuit . The network interface circuit may be implemented using any suitable data transceiver such as an Ethernet transceiver. The processor may be any suitable type of well known processor and the memory device preferably includes volatile memory and non volatile memory. Preferably the memory device stores a software program that implements all or part of the method described below.

In particular the memory preferably stores a query generation module a result modeling module and an assessment ranking and organization module . The query generation module forms multiple search queries targeted to multiple information sources as described in detail below. The result modeling module examines search results e.g. summaries web pages documents etc. to create search result models as described in detail below. The assessment ranking and organization module compares search results models to original context models to rank and organize search results from multiple information sources as described in detail below. These software modules may be executed by the processor in a well known manner. However some of the steps described in the method below may be performed manually and or without the use of the search system . The memory device and or a separate database also store files programs web pages etc. for use by other servers and or client devices .

Users of the system may be required to register with the search system . In such an instance each user may choose a user identifier e.g. e mail address and a password which may be required for the activation of services. The user identifier and password may be passed across the network using encryption built into the user s web browser. Alternatively the user identifier and or password may be assigned by the search system .

A message diagram showing an example communications exchange between a client device and a plurality of information sources is illustrated in . In this example the communications exchange is initiated by a client device displaying a document to a user block . For example the client device may be displaying a web page an e mail message a word processing document a slide presentation a map and or any other suitable document.

Each time the user context on the client device changes for example if the content of the document displayed by the client device changes the client device may automatically generate a context model message . For example when the user stops typing into a word processing document e.g. no activity for more than five seconds the client device may generate a context model message representing the current state of the user s context including the current word processing document as discussed earlier. Alternatively or in addition the client device may generate the context model message in response to other events. For example the client device may generate the context model message periodically and or when the focus of the document changes. In other embodiments the user may initiate this sequence themselves e.g. by pressing a button.

The context model message includes a context model. The context model is a representation of a user s current context based on the user s current document and or other factors such as the application type associated with the document the genre of the document e.g. legal brief patent application resume etc. the user s task and the state of that task explicit indication by the user e.g. pressing a button or highlighting some words the organization in which the user is currently working and or the user s role in that organization etc. Preferably the context model is generated by the context generation module of the associated client device . The context model is a statistical and heuristic model of the user s context. For example a user context including a user text document including occurrences of the words dog cat mouse and book might be described in part by a context model like dog 10 cat 6 mouse 3 book 1 where the numbers represent weights associated with the words. In this example the context model indicates that the associated document is more about dogs than it is about cats. The weights may be assigned by any suitable algorithm. For example the weighting algorithm may take into account the number of occurrences of each word the location of each word e.g. in the title of the document versus in the body the style of the words e.g. bold text versus plain text etc. A detailed discussion of various methods of determining a context model is included in U.S. Patent Publication 2005 0027704 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The context model would in many cases also include representations of such factors as the user s current task and task state the application in which the user is currently working the document type or genre the organization in which the user is working the user s role in this organization explicit user indications etc.

In some cases aspects of the user context may be directly available from the task a user is accessing. For example aspects of the user context may come from explicit user indication such as selecting a task from a menu or using a certain document template letter resume etc. or other features of the user s application. Other aspects of a task may be directly available through application programming interfaces or by observing communication between the application and other software such as the operating system or hardware such as a network device. In other cases aspects of the user context may be based on computed from or derived from one or more of these directly available aspects. For example text in the document a user is reading or writing may be directly available through an application programming interface and then that text could be further processed to classify the user s document into one or more categories e.g. legal brief letter outline science paper based on words that are present and or absent in the document. This classification could then become one aspect of the context model. Other aspects of the user context may also be inferred from directly observable aspects of the user context other than the text of a document the user may be accessing. For instance the stage in a task may be inferred from a step in a business process management system or the status of an account as represented by a customer relationship management system.

It is preferable for the context model to contain all of the information useful for retrieving relevant documents from search engines determining the relevance of those retrieved documents and further determining how they are relevant. Moreover the portion of the context model derived from the document itself can in turn be the result of an analysis process that is itself sensitive to all these sorts of features. For example suppose the text of the user s document is analyzed in order to classify the document into one or more categories based on words that are present or absent in the document and the current document is classified as a legal brief. As a result of classifying the document as a legal brief the text may further be analyzed in order to extract the case citations present in the legal brief and to identify the jurisdiction under which the present case is being argued. These aspects jurisdiction and case citations may then be added to the context model separately from the original text. In addition other aspects such the user s role may be added to the context model. For example if the document is a legal brief and the user is writing the document the role of legal brief drafter may cause the system to determine that legal opinions from the same judge are relevant. However if the user is just reading the legal brief the role of legal brief reviewer may cause the system to determine that other legal documents with similar content are relevant.

The context model may also include the text of the user s document its classification as a legal brief and words and phrases that describe the key themes in the dispute. The words and phrases that describe the key themes in the dispute may be based on the text of the original document. For example words and phrases may be assigned weights and those words with the highest weights may be included in the list of words and phrases that describe the key themes of the dispute. In determining the words that describe the main themes those terms that occur more frequently may be assigned a higher weight. It is preferable that those terms that occur in more important sections of the document be assigned a higher weight. For example words that occur in the summary of argument section of a legal brief could be assigned a higher weight than words that only occur in the table of citations section. More specifically each time a word occurs in a document one could be added to its weight whereas if a word occurs in an important section a number W would be added to its weight where W is a tunable parameter greater than one. If a word appears in bold or all caps and in an important section a number X could be added to its overall weight where X is a tunable parameter greater than W.

Furthermore a list of words could be excluded from appearing in the present list of words that describe the key themes of the document. This list of words to exclude may be selected based on the type of document being viewed. For example words like a an the but or may be excluded from all documents whereas words like jury testified defense court evidence trial alleged or names of those party to the case may be excluded specifically from legal briefs. The terms excluded may be based in part on other aspects of the context model. The words or phrases excluded may also be added to the context model for the purposes of later using them to assess filter rank and organize search results. The words or phrases with the biggest N weights could then be collected and assigned to the major themes of the document.

Moreover the context model may contain more than one list of words and phrases each list representing separate aspects of the text of the overall document. For example in a legal brief one list of words and phrases could represent the statement of jurisdiction. Another list of words and phrases could represent the statement of the case etc. In another example if the user is browsing the web and viewing a web page on a news site on which more than one news story is presented the context representation may include a list of words and phrases describing each story presented. Each list of words and phrases associated with each aspect may be computed using methods described herein. The beginning and end of each news article may be determined first by determining the web page is being served by a news site and second by looking for features that occur between articles such as article titles and hyperlinks to the full article. The context model may be represented as a list or collection of aspects. In general one aspect of the context model may be based on one or more other aspects of the context model.

As part of generating the context model the context generation module makes a determination if a search is likely to return useful results. For example the user may be viewing the front page of an electronic newspaper covering multiple unrelated topics. By analyzing application and or genre specific document features such as segmentation e.g. columns in MS Word frames in HTML etc. and or other properties of the user s context the query generation module or may determine that a search is unlikely to return useful results or that certain sources of information may be more likely to contain useful information than other sources of information.

For example if the user s document contains fewer than N words where N is a tunable parameter the query generation module or may determine that a search is not likely to return useful or interesting results. In another example the average length of a paragraph of text is computed. If the average length of a paragraph of text is below a tunable parameter L then the query generation module or may determine a search is not likely to return useful or interesting results. The tunable parameter L may be related to other aspects of the user context such as the type of document or application being accessed. For example if the user is accessing a contact record in Microsoft Outlook it is preferable that the paragraph length requirement not apply because contact records are typically very short. If the user is accessing a PowerPoint presentation it is preferable that the paragraph length requirement be shortened as PowerPoint presentations typically contain short paragraphs less than a sentence long. If the user is writing a document in Microsoft Word however it is preferable to work with full paragraphs of text.

In cases where a user is browsing the web query generation module or scans the user s document and counts the number of words in hyperlinks and the number of words not in hyperlinks. If the ratio of hyperlinked to non hyperlinked words is below a tunable threshold T then the query generation module or may determine that a search is not likely to return useful or interesting results. In another example the user may indicate an area of interest and that area of interest may be represented by terms. If words occurring in areas of interest are not present in the user context the query generation module or may determine that a search is not likely to yield interesting results. Similarly areas of disinterest may be represented as lists of terms. If words on that list appear in the user context the query generation module or may determine that a search is not likely to yield interesting results.

In addition the query generation module or may analyze the text of the current user document to measure a degree of term overlap. For example the user s document may be broken up into sections of length W words long. For example by starting at word one and storing until word W and then starting at word W O and then storing until word W W O where W is a tunable parameter and O is a tunable parameter. If a certain threshold degree of commonality exists between document segments e.g. all of the document segments are relevant to the Olympics the query generation module or may determine that a search is likely to return useful results. For example if a term occurs in both segment one and in segment two then one may be added to the overlap score of segment one and segment two. If the overlap score of two segments is greater than a threshold that is some function of the length of the text window W then the two text segments may be called coherent. If a certain portion of subsequent text segments have coherence then the document as a whole may be called coherent and therefore a search may be allowed to proceed. Otherwise the query generation module or may determine that a search is not likely to return useful results. In addition if a certain threshold for density of links on a page is exceeded the query generation module may determine that the page does not have sufficiently rich content to search. The query generation module may also determine the results of a search may be irrelevant or unnecessary to a user based on the broader non document specific components of the context model such as current task user role etc.

The query generation module may also use non document specific context information to override and initiate searching related to a document that does not otherwise meet certain searching criteria e.g. link density term overlap . For example if the user is browsing the web and the document they are viewing is being transmitted over a secure channel the URL or location of the document may start with the string https . It may not be desirable to search automatically based on such pages because the data within them is often sensitive.

Through such methods the system prevents retrieval and presentation to the user of information based on user contexts and documents for which the returned items are likely to be ranked low or otherwise prove irrelevant. Conversely such methods ensure the most relevant information is sought from the information sources most likely to produce it. Preferably the user would be given an option to override this determination. For example if the user selects one document segment over others the query generation module or could focus its analysis on that segment.

If the query generation module or determines that a search is likely to return useful results the query generation module or forms multiple search queries targeted to multiple information sources block . For example one information source may allow Boolean operators and another information source may not allow Boolean operators. Similarly one information source may allow up to four search terms and another information source may only allow two search terms. An information source that allows four search terms preferably receives a query including the top four terms in the context model e.g. dog cat mouse and book and an information source that only allows two search terms preferably receives a query including the top two terms in the context model e.g. dog and cat . Any suitable method of selecting information sources and generating queries may be used. A detailed discussion of various methods of generating queries is included in U.S. Patent Publication 2005 0028156 the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

One or more query messages are then sent to one or more information sources . In response to receiving a query message each information source searches one or more information repositories and generates a set of search results block . For example a search engine such as Google may generate a plurality of summaries wherein each summary includes a portion of an associated document e.g. a web page . Typically these summaries are intended to provide a human user with some notion of the associated document s contents so that the user may assess the relevance of the document to the user s needs. Each information source s search results are then transmitted to the search system and or the client device in a separate search results message .

Other information systems may provide other data about the search results such as the subject area industry classification date of publication or author. This data may also be used as a feature of the result model included in the search results message . In addition the result model may include the query used to generate those results as a feature included in the search results message . For example if the query created by the query generation module or is directed at a news database the result modeling module may treat news items with preference depending on the original context model. Many information sources allow users to enter additional constraints that significantly change the character subject area or other properties of the search results retrieved. For example users may be able to specify the type of item retrieved e.g. news patents journal articles or WWW home pages. Other properties such as the date the document was published or the WWW location in which the document was published are also often available as constraints on the search query to information sources. These constraints allow the query generation module to specify at a suitable level of specificity what information should be retrieved. The query generation module may only generate queries directed at certain information sources or with certain constraints in response to certain properties of the user context. Any property of the information repository being searched the search results as a group or individual results on their own may be used for the purposes of assessing ranking organizing and presenting search results.

The result modeling module or uses the search result messages to create search result models and compares the search result models to the original context model block . The search result models may be compared to the original context model using any suitable scoring and or comparison algorithm. For example the client device or the search system may generate a score for each search result model by multiplying the weights of terms that are common to both the search result model and the original context model and then summing those products.

A search result model is a representation of a search result from an information source . Each search result model is a statistical and heuristic model of the search result that may include lexical words or phrases or symbolic logical data. For example a summary from a news article including occurrences of the words dog and cat might be described by a search result model as dog 4 cat 3 IsNewsArticle where the numbers represent weights associated with the words and IsNewsArticle indicates the type of document. In this example the search result model indicates that the associated document is more about dogs than it is about cats. The weights may be assigned by any suitable algorithm. For example the weighting algorithm may take into account the number of occurrences of each word the location of each word e.g. in the title of the summary versus in the body the style of the words e.g. bold text versus plain text etc. In addition the result modeling module or may use an information source specific stop list when constructing the search result model in order to prevent the inclusion of certain terms. For example court may be on the stop list for Lexis but not on the stop list for Google .

A search result model may include a summary of a search result returned by the information source in response to a query and or the search result model may be derived from that summary through statistical and heuristic methods. The summaries returned by information sources whether written by humans or automatically generated are generally intended to enable human users to assess the relevance of the search results. Thus these summaries are not necessarily optimal as or for constructing search result models for the purpose discussed here i.e. for comparison with a context model to assess relevance of the search result to the user s current context . In certain embodiments the information source may return a fuller or more representative summary of the search result derived statistically and or heuristically specifically for the purpose of enabling ranking organizing and or presenting information as described here. More generally the information source may return meta data about the search result and or properties of the information source itself. This meta data may or may not be specifically designed for the purpose of enabling ranking organizing and or presenting information.

In certain embodiments an information source may return the entire document associated with each search result rich meta data associated with each search result or a model of each such document as opposed to a summary of each document that may include lexical and symbolic representations. For example the search result model for a result returned by the information source may contain a list of words occurring in the document along with the frequency with which each word occurs in that document. The information source may also return data concerning the information source as a whole. For example statistical information about the entire set of documents such as the number of documents in which a term occurs or other data elements the document contains. The search result model returned by the information source for a result may be based in part on this statistical information. For example the weights associated with the terms in a list comprising an aspect of such a model may be modulated by this information. The search result model may also be based in part on a stop list to exclude certain terms from inclusion.

This search result model may also take into account the location of a term or terms in the document. For example a term which is located in a heading in the document may be weighted more highly in the list of terms comprising an aspect of the search result model returned by the information source. The model may also take into account stylistic aspects of the document. For example a word which is in bold face or in a larger font size than the rest of the document may be weighted more highly in the list of terms. Conversely a term which is in a smaller type font may have its weight reduced. The search result model may also take into account the order of terms in the document. For example if two terms occur together in a given order this order may be reflected in the search result model as well.

The search result model may also be based on the genre or type of the document. Examples of this include an archived email a resume a patent application a legal brief etc. The genre or type information may be used for example to determine a specialized stop list of terms to be excluded from the model. In addition the genre or type information may be used to identify key terms of particular interest or to alter the weighting of terms in the model. For example the terms following the label Subject in an archived email might be weighted more highly than other terms. Similarly the result model may be based on the application used to create the document.

Furthermore the search result model may contain aspects of the user context in which the document was originally produced such as the task that resulted in that document. In one example the present system may submit the context model to a search engine along with the user s document when the document is being saved. The search engine could then return the stored context model along with the search results. Alternatively the stored context model may be incorporated into the search result model returned for that document or the search result model may be based on this stored context model. For example other aspects of the search result model such as the weights of terms may be changed on the basis of this context model.

In this manner improved assessment ranking organization and presentation may be performed based on a more detailed and accurate search result model. Alternatively summary style search results typically include a pointer to the full document associated with the summary which may be used to retrieve the full document. For example most Internet search engines return a hyperlink to the associated web page. In any case the client device or the search system may use a search result model created from some or all of the full document as opposed to just the search result summary in addition to other data about each search result. For example the hyperlink itself may contain additional data that is helpful for ranking organizing or presenting search results for a given context model. In one example search results are organized by the internet domain under which each search result occurs.

The assessment organization and ranking module or uses the comparison of the search result models to the original context model to assess organize and rank the search results block . In one example the assessment organization and ranking module or compares all of the terms occurring in a search result model to terms occurring in the user s document. Consider a user working on a document about ecology and global warming. The context model might include terms like ecology 5 global warming 10 emissions 9 co2 5 greenhouse gas 4. Further consider a search engine that only accepts one term. Given the context model above the search term global warming might be selected as a query. The result of executing a search based on that term may result in several search results with search result models as follows. Search Result 1 global warming 2 developing 1 country 1 china 1. Search Result 2 global warming 2 greenhouse gas 2 . According to the search engine Search Result 1 is more relevant than Search Result 2. But the search engine does not have all of the information included in the context model. Therefore the assessment organization and ranking module or may further compare the context model with these search results models to arrive at a score for example by multiplying the weights of terms occurring in the search result model with the weights of terms occurring in the context model and dividing by the number of unique terms in the search result model. If a term is not present in the context model it may be given a weight of zero. In the example above then Search Result 1 would be given a score of 5 whereas Search Result 2 would be given a score of 14. The assessment organization and ranking module or may thereby determine Search Result 2 is more relevant to the user context than Search Result 1 and thereby rank Search Result 2 ahead of Search Result 1 even though the search engine originally ranked them in the opposite order. Similarly when querying multiple search engines the present method may be applied to search results from all search engines queried in order to rank search results into a single ordered list.

In addition to ranking and organizing in some embodiments the assessment organization and ranking module or may simply eliminate certain search results rather than presenting them to the user. Search engines sometimes return irrelevant results. This may be because the search engine lacks information about the user s context. The present example may eliminate search results with a weight of zero allowing the system to only present search results that have at least one word in common with the user s context. Furthermore search results that rank below a certain threshold either absolute or relative to other results may be eliminated.

For example in one embodiment the system is connected to one or more search engines such as one or more World Wide Web WWW search engines. In a WWW search there are typically no editorial controls on what information is contributed to the databases. As a result these search engines may contain junk data. In some cases data may be specifically generated by a malicious publisher to game the search engine so as to gain more referral traffic from the search engine while providing no valuable information to the user. In the industry this is called search SPAM. In order to avoid presenting this irrelevant information to the user the present system compares the query model with the search result model in order to determine the longest uninterrupted sequence of search terms occurring in the search result model returned by the search engine that occur in the same order as in the search query that originally generated that search result. In other words the present system computes the longest matching subsequence of the search query that appears in the search result model. Search results that contain a sequence of search terms of length greater than or equal to a tunable parameter T in their descriptions are considered search SPAM and preferably eliminated from the search results presented to the user. SPAM removal can be turned on and off on a per information source basis so as to avoid false positives.

Furthermore some of the search engines the system is connected to may provide search results that contain none of the words mentioned in the search query so as to provide a list of search results to the user even when there are no exact matches. Typically these documents are irrelevant. Therefore the present system is preferably configured to eliminate search results for which there are no terms in common between the search result model and the context model.

The system may be connected to multiple WWW search engines in addition to other databases that contain content that is less broadly applicable e.g. Lexis Nexis . Given the system is connected with so many different sources many duplicate search results may be retrieved. Near duplicates may be eliminated using methods described in USPTO Publication 2005 0028156. However the resulting list may still contain similarities and especially in light of the methods of ranking search results described herein provide the user with too many documents that are related to the user s context in the same way. Therefore if a search result is related to the user s context in the same or similar way as another search result one of the two search results is preferably eliminated before the search results are presented to the user. This provides a more interesting list of search results. More specifically given a context model C consisting of terms C C . . . CN a search result model R consisting of terms R R . . . RN and another search result model R consisting of terms R R . . . R N then let I C R be the intersection of C and R and I C R be the intersection of C and R . If the size of the intersection of I C R and I C R is greater than a tunable parameter T then R is eliminated before the search results are presented to the user. In addition term stems multiple word phrases or any aspect of the context model or search result model may be substituted for terms the function I may be substituted for any method of computing how a search result relates to a context and the size of intersection may be replaced with a weighted comparison metric that may not be transitive e.g. dot product cosine etc. or any other suitable method for comparing relatedness.

The system might also use the results of comparing the search result models with the context model to organize the search results in some appropriate way for example by segmenting them based on categories that are selected based on the user s current task or properties of the search results themselves. The ranked and organized search results are a combination of the search results from multiple information sources in an order that is not necessarily the same as the order of the individual search results received from the information sources . For example one information source may return a summary of documents A B and C ranked in that order and another information source may return a summary of documents C D and F ranked in that order. However the assessment organization and ranking module or may rank the combined results as B C D A F.

The assessment organization and ranking module or uses the comparison of the search result models to the original context model to organize and present the search results block . In other words relevancy is a matter of degree position in a list and or type which group to be included in . An example of search results organized into different categories is illustrated in e.g. Top Results Web News Blogs Shopping Desktop etc. .

The original context model is used by the assessment organization and ranking module or to determine which organization scheme to use and which presentation strategy to pursue. When the user s context changes the organization scheme and presentation strategy may also change to best support and reflect the user s current task properties of the user s document document genre application etc.

In one embodiment search results are organized by the assessment organization and ranking module or based on combinations of rules activated by the original context model that combine a plurality of features of the search result model to produce a categorized list. Similar rules may be used to select a presentation strategy e.g. a pop up display banner tickertape embedded links in the user s active document etc.

For example when a user is composing an email message information associated with the email recipient may be placed next to the email recipient and information associated with the body of the email may be placed next to the body whereas additional information on the topics discussed in each news article on a web site may be presented when the user moves her mouse over the text in the article. When the user is accessing an email application and composing an email in that application the above presentation scheme may be selected by comparing aspects of the user context with a list of rules. For example while writing an email the user context could include representations of the application name the application type the active task stage in the task sender and recipient name the location of the recipient in screen coordinates and body of the email. More specifically the context model might include ApplicationName Microsoft Outlook ApplicationType Email Task ComposeEmail Stage beginning Sender John Doe Recipient Jane Doe RecipientLocation 10 10 Body Hi Jane . The system may further include rules of the form of antecedent consequent pairs where antecedents include features of the context model and consequents include features of result models so a subset of the results may be selected and instructions on how to display the results. For example consider a set of search results gathered from multiple search engines WWW search engines desktop search engines that contain email and files and other databases based on an email a user is composing. In order to display information about an email recipient next to the recipient s name a rule may be expressed as follows to select search results that are email messages sent by the recipient and display those search results next to the location of the recipient on the screen IF Task ComposeEmail And ApplicationName Microsoft Outlook THEN SELECT DocumentType Email EmailSender Recipient DISPLAY AT RecipientLocation . By binding variables previously accessible in the user context model with variables in the rule the rule could then be rewritten as follows IF Task ComposeEmail And ApplicationName Microsoft Outlook THEN SELECT DocumentType Email Jane Doe DISPLAY AT 10 10 . A number of other organization schemes may be activated based on different user contexts by listing similar rules.

Search results may be categorized based on any attribute of the search result model including the query that generated the search results. For example the original context model may have specified the user as a lawyer the user is viewing a contact in Microsoft Outlook and that the search results should be grouped by type including for example news stories about the contact person s company the home page of the contact person email recently exchanged with that contact person and any recent litigation filed by the contact person s company among others. The query generation module or may then respond by dispatching several queries. For example 1 a query to Lexis specifying that only news articles should be retrieved and specifying the contact person s company name 2 another query to Yahoo News specifying the contact person s company name 3 another to MSN with the name and company name of the contact person 4 another with the contact person s name to desktop search software specifying recent email and 5 yet another to Lexis specifying that only litigation in which the contact person s company name is named should be retrieved. The assessment organization and ranking module or could then group search results from queries 1 and 2 within a category labeled Company News items from query 3 under Home Pages search results from query 4 within a category labeled Recent Email search results from query 5 under a category labeled Litigation and so on.

Properties of each individual search result may be used in a similar way by the assessment organization and ranking module or to organize the search results. For example the date the document corresponding to a given search result was published may be used to organize search results into categories such as today last week last month last year etc. by comparing the current date with the date associated with each search result. Similarly the file format of the document its subject area words present or absent in the document summary or abstract the content source etc. may be used by the assessment organization and ranking module or to organize the search results.

To provide more organized and or more complete information to the user the assessment organization and ranking module or may determine that given a user context additional information is required in order to evaluate the quality and or character of the search results. A single information source may not provide complete information about a retrieved item. For example an internet search engine may provide a URL Title and Summary of a web site but a social bookmarking site like del.icio.us may provide a user ranking for a given web site along with comments about that web site which could be useful in assessing ranking and or organizing search results provided by the internet search engine. The assessment organization and ranking module or may issue a number of additional queries in order to gather additional information based on an initial retrieval. For example by retrieving user ratings reviews and tags or categories for a web site retrieved in a first step an original search result model may be enhanced. The assessment organization and ranking module or could then use this enhanced search result model to assess rank and or organize search results by comparing the enhanced search result model with the original context model. For example search results may be ordered by a combination of keyword overlap and user rating and or search results may be organized into categories labeled by tags e.g. del.icio.us tags users have given them. In addition chains of arbitrary length associated with an arbitrary number of information sources may be constructed in order to further enhance the search result model for the purpose of assessing ranking and or organizing search results with respect to a given context model.

In some contexts information retrieved from one source can be combined with elements of the context model to provide input into another source. For example while the user is shopping online a product name may be extracted from the page in which the user is shopping. That product name may then be added to the context model. More specifically say the user is viewing a page on a shopping site for a wireless mouse made by Microsoft. Given the user is visiting a shopping site the system could infer that the user is shopping. Given the structure of the shopping site the system could extract the product name and manufacturer from the web page in addition to key words and phrases. Thus the context model may include UserlsShopping ProductName Wireless Mouse ProductVendor Microsoft Price 29.99 in addition to other important words and phrases like PC Windows silver optical .

Since the user is shopping it may be desirable to retrieve information about similar products from other vendors. This product name may readily be used to look up vendors of similar products from a product database. The key words in the context model can be used to filter sort and or organize the results of that search. Furthermore in the context of shopping and given this list of similar products from other vendors it may be desirable to look up the price of those products or try and find images of those products to present to the user. Thus the search system may direct a plurality of queries to a plurality of additional information sources in order to retrieve price information and an image of the product.

This information may then be further combined with the results of previous queries in order to form a more detailed search result model. Given the context model generated in previous steps the search result model may then be further evaluated and organized so that the best information is presented to the user in a way that makes the most sense in the given context. For example the system may organize the results of the above set of assessment and retrieval steps into a category of items presented in a user interface labeled Similar Products that includes a list of other wireless mice in the price range of 10 50 whose descriptions include at least two of the words and phrases originally present in the context model and listed in order of most overlapping to least overlapping description. Other categories of information may be retrieved such as Professional Reviews or User Comments generated through a similar process of combining elements of the context model with elements of a first retrieval step in order to formulate a second or third retrieval step which is further evaluated assessed and or organized in light of the original context model.

It will be further appreciated that the original context model may itself be augmented as the result of a retrieval and assessment step. For example if the only discernable property from a shopping site is a UPC code the product name and manufacturer may be accessible from a product database. This information may then be incorporated into the context model and the above retrieval process may then be initiated. Thus the search results model may be combined with the original context model to form a modified context model which can then be subject to further retrieval assessment ranking and or organization. This process of chaining sources allows the system to provide better search results to the user. The search results are organized ranked and or assessed using more of the available information even if that information must be retrieved from multiple information sources.

The assessment and ranking method outlined above may or may not be applied within a search result category at the user s specification based on properties of the user context or properties of the search result model etc. A similar method may be used to determine the presentation strategy for the search results. By combining sets of rules that operate on the properties of the search results model the context model can flexibly specify how search results should be organized and presented by the assessment organization and ranking module or .

The assessment organization and ranking module or then generates a ranked and organized search results message specifying preferred presentation strategy. The ranked and organized search results may then be viewed by the user of the client device at the same time the user views the document associated with the search results block . For example the ranked search results may be viewed in a side bar to the document being displayed by the client device see . In other embodiments the assessment and ranking module may produce other instructions about how the results should be displayed for example by organizing the search results into categories or by specifying the most appropriate user interface modality for example by embedding links into the user s active document given the current context model.

A flowchart of an example process for obtaining and assessing and ranking search results is illustrated in . Preferably the process is embodied in one or more software programs which is stored in one or more memories and executed by one or more processors. For example the process may be software running on a client device and or the context based search system . Although the process is described with reference to the flowchart illustrated in it will be appreciated that many other methods of performing the acts associated with the process may be used. For example the order of many of the steps may be changed and some of the steps described may be optional.

Generally the process analyzes a user s current context including in particular a document being viewed by the user at a client device to automatically form multiple search queries associated with that document. The queries are sent to multiple information sources which respond with different search results. Models of the search results are then compared to a context model as described above to create a ranked and organized list of the search results for display to the user.

More specifically the process is typically triggered each time a document being viewed at a client device changes block . For example the user may click a hyperlink in a web page thereby changing the content of a browser window or the user may simply change focus e.g. where the cursor is placed within the same document.

When the document changes the client device or the search system analyze the document as well as other aspects of the user s context as described above to create a context model block . As described above the context model is a statistical and heuristic model of the user s context. For example if the user is viewing a text document that includes occurrences of the words dog cat mouse and book the context model might be dog 10 cat 6 mouse 3 book 1 where the numbers represent weights associated with the words. Again the weighting algorithm may take into account the number of occurrences of each word the location of each word e.g. in the title of the document versus in the body the style of the words e.g. bold text versus plain text properties of the user s task the active application the user s role in an organization etc. as described earlier. It will be appreciated that any suitable method of generating context models may be used.

Based on the context model the client device or the search system forms multiple queries targeted to multiple information sources block . As described above different information sources may have different limitations placed on how queries may be formed. Accordingly the search system customizes each query for each information source . For example an information source that only allows two search terms may receive the query dog OR cat . The client device or the search system then sends the queries to the respective information sources block . For example the client device or the search system may send one query to Google over the Internet and another query to a proprietary database over a local intranet.

In response each information source searches one or more databases and generates a set of search results which are received by the client device or the search system block . For example one or more information sources may return the search result summaries shown in block of . In these example search results the example search terms i.e. dog and cat appear in the search result titles and the search result bodies. In addition other words contained in the example context model i.e. mouse and book appear in one of the example search results even though those words were not included in this example search query.

The client device or the search system then creates a model of each search result block . For example dog 4 cat 3 may model the first example search result in block and dog 3 cat 3 mouse 3 book 4 may model the second example search result in block . In these examples the modeling algorithm counted occurrences of a term in the title of a search result as having a weight of two and occurrences of a term in the body of a search result as having a weight of one. For example the first example search result in block includes one occurrence of dog in the title counted as a weight of two and two occurrences of dog in the body counted as a weight of one each for a total weight of four. It will be appreciated that any suitable method of modeling search results may be used.

The client device or the search system then compares the search result models to the original context model block using any suitable scoring algorithm and ranks the search results based on these scores. In addition the client device or the search system may eliminate certain search results organize certain search results into categories or folders or in general determine how the search results should be best presented to the user in light of the original context model . The ranked and organized search results are then displayed to the user block .

An example screen shot of ranked search results being displayed in a side bar to a document by a client device is illustrated in . In this example the document is a presentation slide about increasing sales of energy drinks. Accordingly the client device or the search system assigned a high score to search results associated with energy drink growth i.e. ranked toward the top of the combined search results .

An example screen shot of a search results web page from one information source is illustrated in . An example screen shot of a search results web page from another information source is illustrated in . An example screen shot of a search results side bar in accordance with an embodiment of the present system is illustrated in . In these examples certain search results and are located both of the prior art search results and or and are also included in the combined search results . Other search results and are only located in one of the prior art search results and are also included in the combined search results . Still other search results in the combined search results may not be in either of the prior art search results and . As shown the combined search results may be in any order i.e. not necessarily the same order as one or more of the prior art systems and or .

In summary persons of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate that methods and apparatus for assessing ranking organizing and presenting search results have been provided. The foregoing description has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the exemplary embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. It is intended that the scope of the invention not be limited by this detailed description of examples.

