---

title: System and method for using universal location referencing objects to provide geographic item information
abstract: A method and system for creating and/or using a universal location referencing object (ULRO) with electronic files including electronic maps. ULROs establish traversable links between a file-of-reference and third-party-files. In accordance with an embodiment, the ULRO comprises a universal location referencing code uniquely corresponding to the location, together with several optional components, including: a set of name information; a super-set of coordinates; a file-of-reference pointer field comprising a file-of-reference pointer; a third-party-file pointer field comprising one or more third-party-file pointers; a file-of-reference back-pointer field comprising a file-of-reference back-pointer; a third-party-file back-pointer field comprising one or more third-party-file back-pointers; and a metadata field. ULROs allow recognition of equivalence of features in different maps, and facilitate dynamic combination or linking of multiple maps into one virtual map, with traversable connectivity for a wide variety of map formats.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07672779&OS=07672779&RS=07672779
owner: Tele Atlas North America Inc.
number: 07672779
owner_city: Lebanon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071029
---
This application is a continuation of pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 271 436 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CREATING UNIVERSAL LOCATION REFERENCING OBJECTS by Gil Fuchs filed Nov. 10 2005.

This application is related to provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 60 797 130 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A VIRTUAL DATABASE ENVIRONMENT AND GENERATING DIGITAL MAP INFORMATION Inventors Gil Fuchs Ettie Ettinger Allen Brown and Eric Crowe filed May 2 2006 now abandoned and

Pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 742 937 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A VIRTUAL DATABASE ENVIRONMENT AND GENERATING DIGITAL MAP INFORMATION inventors Gil Fuchs et al. filed May 1 2007 and incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The invention is related to electronic maps electronic documents and electronic databases and specifically to a method and system for creating universal location referencing objects for use in such electronic maps documents and databases

Historically documents were printed on paper or other non modifiable non interactive media and did not allow any user modification of the information or for example of relationships between data points. Moreover documents could not be updated when new information appeared and the concept of databases in the modern sense of this word did not even exist rendering the concept of updating them moot.

Prior to the computer age there were essentially two forms of recourse whenever a map needed modification 1 to enter a correction by hand on the paper copy or copies of the map or 2 to reprint the map with the correction made on the original. Manual corrections are time intensive particularly for multiple modifications and by definition do not update any of the other remaining copies of the map. The second option of reprinting the map is expensive and is also an impractical way to respond to frequent modifications.

In the current age paper maps have been largely superceded by databases documents and maps in digital electronic formats capable of being updated as desired and able to respond to a selected range and type of operator input and to produce operator requested output. Many electronic documents and electronic databases in common usage today comprise information related to geographic location s . Indeed it is not easy to think of a class of electronic documents or a class of electronic databases that does not at least occasionally incorporate some form of geographically related information.

Examples of electronic databases that is relevant to certain embodiments of the present invention are geospatial databases commonly referred to as electronic maps or digital maps . Today maps have evolved well beyond their centuries old status as static paper depictions of a non adjustable data set as recorded at one particular time. For simplicity much of the discussion below refers to electronic maps although the points made also apply to electronic documents and electronic databases other than maps that contain geographic information.

One of the benefits of a digital map over a traditional paper based map is its inherent flexibility and its ability to portray large amounts of data. Paper maps are necessarily limited in the amount and type of information they can portray within the constraints of their physical formats. Paper maps are also difficult to update.

Digital maps do not suffer from these problems. While earlier digital maps may have seemed merely like a scanned version of the paper product today s modern digital maps are much more powerful. Information can be included in the map and either displayed or not displayed depending on the wishes of the operator.

Today s digital maps also known as electronic maps can allow for regular modification of data points included in the map in addition to active operator selection of desired geographic features of interest. As new information arises of a type specifically relevant to a map of interest the whole map can be quickly updated to reflect changes or corrections to all or just a small subset of locations.

Digital maps may be capable of responding to certain types of operator input and may be capable of offering a range of operator adjustable output. Current electronic maps may offer the operator the option to select the scale at which the map is viewed. Often this is done using a zoom in and or zoom out capability. This feature while important and useful does not actually change the content contained in a particular map but rather re presents the map at a different level of detail and with a different geographic focus.

A typical application of electronic maps is in the travel industry whereby digital maps are used to quickly and automatically chart travel routes and to locate destinations. Digital maps have found a particularly common everyday use in automobiles wherein Global Positioning Systems GPS and other position determination devices are used in association with a digital map to automatically track the position of a car and display the position on a map for example to guide the driver to a particular destination.

Digital maps are often also used in commercial environments for example in calculating optimized routes for delivery drivers to take when performing deliveries or for providing accurate directions for emergency and medical crews to follow when responding to emergency calls. For many years the electronic map industry has also supplied maps to the military for use in military applications. Digital maps find a use in all aspects of industry including for ground based maritime and aviation purposes. As people have become more familiar with portable handheld electronic devices such as Personal Digital Assistants PDA s and smart phones which are increasingly distributed together with electronic maps stored therein the electronic or digital map industry has grown to infiltrate virtually every aspect of society.

Some currently available digital maps allow for linking between a text address and its location on the map. If for example an operator inputs a street address into the Yahoo Maps software application MapQuest or a similar Internet mapping website the output indicates the location of that particular address on a map that is drawn of the surrounding area. Essentially a map of the region encompassing the address of interest is constructed around the selected point. The map may contain overlays of useful information. For example a street map of San Francisco may be overlaid with a map of the railroad system in San Francisco and that map in turn overlaid by icons representing San Francisco restaurants and parking facilities.

However these various overlays are map level overlays meaning that they are registered one to another on the basis of their coordinates. No interactivity is typically available between different points in the overlay or between a point in one overlay and a point in another overlay. While such a coordinate overlay may result in something that appears to an end user like a single map it cannot dynamically function like one fully integrated intelligent digital map. In a sense the entities in one layer know nothing about the entities in any other layer and hence cannot support further data processing related to useful linkages between those entities. Moreover such an overlay map is only possible if it is permitted by the scales formats and coordinate systems of the different maps and different spatial data files. Such an overlay map is not feasible if the information in one or more documents is not presented in the form of a map.

For example the restaurant information may take the form of a text list of restaurant names and addresses. In this case using traditional methods there is no easy way to seamlessly integrate the restaurant data with the railroad and street data of our example. Solutions in the past simply found the coordinates of the restaurant by finding its address located within the street map and generating a set of icons to display as an overlay. While this allowed for a simple address linkage it was incapable of any more sophisticated linkages.

Alternatively a richer set of linkages could be made possible but only if all information has been comprised within the same single integrated map file. This puts the increasingly untenable burden on a single map vendor to integrate the entire body of spatial knowledge into a single electronic map. However in most situations the map vendor doesn t even have access to all the necessary information so despite their best intentions it is increasingly difficult to create a completely integrated map.

Finally in accordance with traditional methods any changes in the placement of an entity on one layer cannot automatically be coordinated with entities in other layers thereby requiring much extra work in keeping all of the layers integrated.

With the progression of the Internet and generally the information age increasingly more data with spatial components is becoming available that could be linked together in an integrated intelligent electronic map. It is a shortcoming of the traditional methods that the layered approach will not handle such intelligent linkages and hence will limit the ability to query the full richness of the spatial content becoming available. Also because of the intensive labor in keeping the coordinate related data synchronized the traditional techniques limit the overall amount of data that can be maintained and updated. Moreover given the explosion of spatially related information that is digitally available and of interest to map users it is neither economically nor logistically feasible for map related enterprises to create and maintain the entire universe of such information. It is these and other limitations of the prior art that the present invention is designed to address.

Generally described the invention presents a method and system for creating universal location referencing objects ULROs for use in conjunction with electronic documents electronic databases and electronic maps which are collectively referred to herein as electronic spatial data files . Virtually everything stated herein regarding one type of electronic spatial data file can also be applied to another type of electronic spatial data file with no loss of applicability. A single logical spatial data file may be partitioned. One logical electronic spatial data file may thus comprise one or more physical files which may or may not have geographic definitions.

To address the limitations described above with respect to traditional methods it is desirable to devise a system for creating virtual maps . A virtual map is defined herein as a digital map capable of dynamically connecting information contained in one or more databases and presenting it to an operator seamlessly and in real time. Typically modern electronic maps are not able to link points of interest in one electronic map or database with points of interest in a second electronic map or another database to create a virtual map with relationships between the objects in one map and the objects in the second map or database.

It is an objective of the present invention to create a ULRO object that captures the salient information of a location comprising geographic location a name associated with that location and a permanent identifier for that location.

It is a further objective of the present invention to create ULROs to enable linking the items of a database that can be spatially defined or data related to such items to a map database and thereby enabling a Virtual Database VDB to offer a user access to a seamless electronic database with a greater richness of dynamically linked content.

It is a further objective of the present invention to create ULROs to enable the linking of items of a database that can be spatially defined or data related to such items to a map database and thereby enabling a user to select all desired content to be compiled and packaged or stored on media such as a CD or DVD for use in off line products such as a embedded navigation system.

It is a further objective of the present invention to build a ULRO structure that facilitates the initial registration or linking of a vast amount of distributed data even those with different formats and once linked with both forward and reverse pointers facilitating the fast and efficient generation of intelligent maps customized with the appropriate information to meet the user s request.

It is a further objective of the present invention to minimize the storage space needed to store the many relationships grouping geographic items of the same location reducing such space requirements from typically a size proportional to N N factorial where N is the number of distributed links containing pertinent information to a factor proportional to N and to similarly improve upon the speed of searching reducing it from something proportional to N N squared to something proportional to a constant value C.

It is a further objective of the present invention to enable independent maintenance of the map and of the third party databases thereby reducing the effort needed in keeping current the content of these large databases.

It is a further objective of the present invention to increases the speed and efficiency by which information can be retrieved from otherwise independent or third party sources and compiled in a dynamic fashion so that it can be easily updated and searched as new information becomes available.

It is a further objective of the present invention to enable a hierarchical construction of ULROs and to provide a means by which they can relate to one another in a uniform way.

As described herein an embodiment of a ULRO comprises a permanent identification code designed to identify a selected location. A location in turn may be associated with one or more geographic items. ULROs can be employed to establish traversable links or connections between a file of reference and third party files for a broad range of database formats. A file of reference is a geospatial file used for permanent storage of a file owner s geographic data. A third party file is a geospatial file used for permanent storage of a third party s geographic data. Whatever its format may happen to be a file of reference or a third party file can typically be transformed into other formats that may be more appropriate for certain applications. In accordance with various embodiments of the present invention this technique can be used to establish traversable links between a map of reference and one or more of third party maps and third party spatial data files.

As further described herein in accordance with an embodiment a ULRO points to geographic items associated with a common location and located in two or more different files. Often but not always one of the files is the database of reference. Effectively a traversable link is thereby created between the two files. ULROs substantially reduce the number of connections required to create traversable links between each of a set N of documents. Using a traditional approach each document would be required to point to each other document and each document would then in turn be pointed at by each other document for a total number of pointers on the order of N N factorial . The present invention makes possible a star configuration which reduces the total number of pointers required to a number in the order of 2 times N. For a large number of documents i.e. for a large value of N this lowers the number of connections by several orders of magnitude. Furthermore since a the total number of connections is much smaller and b the ULRO technique eliminates the need to perform multi discovery over many files in favor of a direct pointered access to those files the resultant ability to retrieve related map data is much faster using a ULRO than with traditional approaches.

As further described herein in accordance with an embodiment a ULRO corresponds to a selected geographic item associated with a location. In accordance with one embodiment a ULRO comprises eight principal components some or all of which may be utilized depending on the particular implementation 1 a set of name information 2 a super set of coordinates 3 a universal location referencing code ULRC uniquely corresponding to the location 4 a file of reference pointer field comprising a file of reference pointer 5 a third party file pointer field comprising one or more third party file pointers 6 a file of reference back pointer field comprising a file of reference back pointer 7 a third party file back pointer field comprising one or more third party file back pointers and 8 a metadata field.

In accordance with an embodiment the file of reference pointer field and the third party file pointer field are each contained within the ULRO. Both of the back pointer fields are contained within their respective files. The file of reference third party file and ULROs can be located remotely from each other. The eighth component is a metadata field comprising metadata related to the ULRO. In accordance with an embodiment the only mandatory field in the ULRO is the ULRC. It is also mandatory that the set of name information and the set of coordinates not both be blank although either one or the other can be blank for a particular ULRO.

Using the above example of map containing restaurant information and text entries using the ULRO approach additional attributes can be integrated and presented to a user regardless of whether the information is contained in the form of a map or in another form. For example if the restaurant information is a text listing of restaurant names it can be combined with the railroad and street maps to create a virtual map as easily and effectively as if the restaurant information was in map format. Through the use of ULROs it is easier for operators of end user applications to obtain spatially relevant data from virtual maps. Virtual maps are capable of using the present invention to usefully and accessibly combine the information in a file of reference with information comprised in one or more of a variety of third party sources. For example the ULRO techniques may also be used together with a virtual map database technique described in further detail in co pending application Ser. No. 11 742 937 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A VIRTUAL DATABASE ENVIRONMENT AND GENERATING DIGITAL MAP INFORMATION inventors Gil Fuchs et al. filed May 1 2007 and incorporated herein by reference to create virtual maps in a dynamic run time fashion. In such a system the user can for example obtain answers to such questions as Show me Italian restaurants near the Geary Theater and for each restaurant show me the parking garages that will validate parking .

These and other objectives advantages and benefits of the present invention will be evident from the accompanying detailed description and drawings.

Generally described the invention presents a method and system for creating universal location referencing objects ULROs for use in conjunction with electronic documents electronic databases and electronic maps which are collectively referred to herein as electronic spatial data files . Virtually everything stated herein regarding one type of electronic spatial data file can also be applied to another type of electronic spatial data file with no loss of applicability. A single logical spatial data file may be partitioned. One logical electronic spatial data file may thus comprise one or more physical files which may or may not have geographic definitions.

Feature A geographic feature referred to herein simply as a feature is an idealized map representation of an actual object from the real world which is useful to that map representation. Features have a dimension and most often but not always have geometric representations. Features might not be actually visible in the real world such as borders or intersections yet they can be represented in a map model. Features have a type and a class which together allow the system to distinguish one feature from another while also preserving similarities between features that are alike.

Dimension of Feature Features are often represented in the map model in a more simple way than in their full real world complexity. Often the real world complexity is more of a distraction than an asset to a model which is just trying to capture a few salient aspects of the real world in order to perform some particular function. Thus the dimension of a feature does not reflect the real world truth but rather what the representation has rendered.

The five dimensions that features are divided into include point features line features area feature volume features and complex features. Real world features which are represented as points are known as point features. For example a restaurant even though it is in the real world a volume object with complex shape when represented in the map model is conveniently represented as a point feature. So is for example a junction where two or more roads elements cross each other. Line features are represented as linear or simple curved segments and as such have an extent which runs between point features or intermediate shape points . Roads borders rivers are some examples of line features. Of course these real world objects are not razor edge thin but in the map model they are represented as idealized center lines ignoring their actual width. Lakes parks and administrative areas are examples of area features. Volume features such as buildings absent from most map models are represented as a construction of connected area features in a way that resembles the real world although quite often with much less detail. Lastly complex features are features which are not atomically defined this term is described in further detail below .

Type of Feature and Class of Feature Types and classes are subcategories of features that enable them to be distinguished. Roads rivers train tracks cities counties mountain peaks bus stops intersections bridges restaurants hotels rest areas are but a few examples of types of features. In most commercial map models there may be thousands of different feature types. The ISO GDF Geographic Data File map format is one standard format which among other things attempts to list a corpus of well known feature types. Complete details of the GDF format are described in the ISO specification ISO 14825 Intelligent Transport Systems Geographic Data Files GDF Overall Data Specification incorporated herein by reference.

Within a particular type of a feature there may also be a variation. For example there are different classes of roads in the world highways major roads minor roads rural roads residential roads slip roads dirt roads and goat trails. While these are all of the feature type road they differ in their various classifications hence a feature class is subordinate to the feature type.

Geometry of Feature In the computer map model features often have a geometrical representation of the feature s shape. Point features are representation by a single node. Line features are often represented by linear segments edges which may run through a sequence of shape points. Area features may be represented by a collection of faces each of which consists of edges delineating its boundary. Area features may be disconnected or may even have holes in them. Volume features may be represented by volume geometry which might contain cavities.

Topology Topology is a set of mathematical properties that are used as a means of capturing connectivity relationships between features which remain true even when the geometry shape of the feature might undergo some change. Geometries of some dimension are bounded by geometries of lesser dimension. Volumes are bounded by areas. Areas are bounded by linear segments linear geometries are bounded by points. Inversely points are co bounded by linear geometries. Linear boundaries are co bounded by areas. Finally areas are co bounded by volumes. Topology may be an aspect of the features themselves or of the geometry which captures their shape.

Simple Feature Point features line feature area features and volume features are simple features since they are directly modeled by assigning geometrical shapes to them.

Complex Feature Conversely complex features may be indirectly defined by other features simple or complex as well as by direct geometrical rendering. For example the state of California may be represented not by running its boundary with shape points which would make it a simple area feature but rather as the sum of its counties which themselves may be simple or complex features . California State rendered as a complex feature is a single feature which is defined in a complex way by referring to other features. Roads which consist of two road elements one in each direction of traffic are another common example of a complex feature. When two complex roads meet a complex feature is declared namely the complex intersection. Often an intersection can be thought of as four junctions where the simple road elements cross each other.

Plurality of Features Both the simple and complex features described above are examples of single features. It is however sometimes useful to think about several features at once hence creating a plurality of features. For example the collection of all of the restaurants in San Francisco or all of the counties in California serve as examples of a plurality of features. Note that the plurality of features for example all the counties in California is a different concept from the single complex feature of the State of California although in this example they do have the same geometric footprint .

Sub Set of Feature It is sometimes convenient to identify a portion sub set or a part of a single feature. Sometimes such parts may be features in their own right but at other times such parts are mere fragments which on their own would not be actual features. Examples of a sub set of a feature include a single county of the State of California feature a segment of road element spanning just a fraction of a block between two intersections or floors 4 through 17 of a 30 story building.

Attribute Features plurality of features and sub sets of features may have attributes. Attributes are provided in large catalogs and there may be thousands of different attributes applying to features in a commercial computer map model of the real world. The attribute type is what captures the different attributes from the catalogue. Speed limit length direction of traffic flow and restaurant opening hours are but a few examples of such attributes.

Relationship Relationships are comprised of two or more features participating in some meaningful connection to each other. For example a road element might split into several road elements at some junction and hence all of those features are in a fork relationship to each other each feature playing a different role . Relationships are also provided in large catalogs and as with attributes hundreds of such relationships are possible in actual commercial digital map models. Not all relationships are geometric since many are developed by modeling real world activities. For example the restaurant that validates parking for a particular parking garage represents one type of business relationship between two features.

Geographic item For the purpose of this description a non ISO standard term is employed here. A geographic item is defined here to be either a feature a plurality of features a sub set of a feature or an attribute.

Location The location where a feature is in the real world is distinct from the feature itself. For example while the feature may be the restaurant its location can be specified as some latitude longitude lat long coordinate pair or coordinates from some similar geodetic referencing system or as a human readable address for example 322 Battery Street in San Francisco . Locations should not be confused with features or with the other geographic items associated with the locations.

Hierarchy of features Features often form a hierarchy of construction. For example a country may be comprised or made up of States or Provinces while States may be comprised of counties etc. In a similar manner roadways are made up of many block face road elements. The roads and parks and buildings of the complex area which comprise the Stanford University campus area are parts of the larger feature. The hierarchy of features is a special case of a relationship between features and it can be explicitly captured and represented or not.

Point of interest A point of interest POI is a special type of point feature in particular it is a type that may comprise other more specific types such as a restaurant hotel museum etc.

As described herein in accordance with an embodiment a ULRO comprises a permanent identification code and sufficient information designed to uniquely identify a selected location. A location in turn may be associated with one or more geographic items. ULROs can be employed to establish traversable links between a file of reference and one or a plurality of third party files for a broad range of database formats. ULROs can be similarly employed to establish traversable links between two or more third party files.

As also described herein in accordance with an embodiment a file of reference is a geospatial database used for permanent storage of a document owner s geographic data. A file of reference can typically be transformed into other formats that may be more appropriate for certain applications. In accordance with an embodiment there is only one file of reference database identified to support ULROs. A third party file is any file that contains some element of spatial data which may consist of geographic features attributes of features or relationships of two or more features. A third party file is distinct from the file of reference.

ULROs uniquely correspond to a particular location. A document need not be a map in order to comprise a geographic item that is associated with a location. ULROs can be easily updated as information changes and as more precise information is obtained. ULROs point to geographic items in two or more different files that are associated with the same location so that a traversable link or connection is effectively created between the two files. ULROs are not required in order to create traversable links between different documents comprising geographic information. ULROs do however substantially reduce the number of connections required to create traversable links between each of a set N of geographic items. Generally the N geographic items can be found in M separate files where M is a value less than or equal to N. Using a traditional approach each document would be required to point to each other document and each document would then in turn be pointed at by each other document for a total number of pointers on the order of N N factorial . The present invention makes possible a star configuration which reduces the total number of pointers required to a number in the order of 2 times N. For a large number of documents i.e. for a large value of N this lowers the number of connections by several orders of magnitude. Furthermore since a the total number of connections is much smaller and b the ULRO technique eliminates the need to perform multi discovery over many files in favor of a direct pointered access to those files the resultant ability to retrieve related map data is much faster using a ULRO than with traditional approaches.

In accordance with an embodiment and an example implementation a ULRO corresponds to a location associated with a geographic item in an electronic file comprising spatial data. The ULRO comprises eight principal components 

2 a super set of coordinates comprising k sets of coordinates where k is the number of geographic points in the location for example a point location for the address 4 Embarcadero Center San Francisco is an example of a set of coordinates that could be comprised in the super set 122.39730 degrees longitude 37.79519 degrees latitude elevation of 3 meters above sea level 

3 a universal location referencing code ULRC uniquely corresponding to the location for example 63573 

4 a file of reference pointer field comprising a file of reference pointer either contained in a side file located externally to the ULRO or located internally to the ULRO 

5 for each geographic item associated with this location a pointer field comprising a third party file pointer 

Of the above described fields in the ULRO the only mandatory field is the ULRC. In accordance with an embodiment it is also mandatory that the set of name information and the set of coordinates not both be blank although either one or the other can be blank for a particular ULRO. The actual requirements for each field may vary depending on the actual implementation.

In accordance with an embodiment the first two of these components i.e. the set of name information and the super set of coordinates such as longitude latitude elevation or a linear referencing system such as those used in conjunction with major motorways or cell phone towers may be thought of as coordinates in two different reference spaces. The geographical coordinate reference space is mathematically based precise and exhaustive in the sense that it uniquely and unmistakably names every point on earth. The name reference space by contrast is linguistically and historically based imprecise and incomplete. Names are often duplicated multiple times between different objects in ways that can be trivial or can be confusing. For example Paris is the capital of France in addition to being a city in Texas and a town in Maine. Even a name such as the Eiffel Tower can refer both to one of France s most beloved landmarks as well as to its imitation in front of a popular hotel in Las Vegas. By contrast no confusion occurs when one is provided with coordinates such as 122.39730 degrees longitude 37.79519 degrees latitude and 3 meters above sea level.

In accordance with an embodiment the set of name information further comprises one or more of the following 1 an address such as 1a a postal code 1b a street number 1c a street name 1d a hierarchical area address system with a sequence of names and 1e other address information 2 a named place 3 geographic name information 4 other types of name information such as telephone numbers and 5 any other name meta information. Geographic name information in turn comprises one or more of the following 5a name information for a point feature 5b name information for a line feature 5c name information for an area feature 5d name information for a volume feature 5e name information for a segment of a line feature 5f name information for a sector of an area feature 5g name information for a section of a volume feature and 5h name information for a plurality of related geographic items.

In accordance with an embodiment the hierarchical area address system includes information on the relationship among at least two of the types of geographic information. For example name information in the case of the University of California which is an area feature could include the fact that the University is located in Berkeley which is in turn located in Alameda County which is in turn in California which is in turn in the United States. By comparison El Camino Real is a name for an entire street which forms a line feature. A line feature is described by a series of points. The address 32 El Camino Real is a point address at a specific location along the line feature. Clearly the address 32 El Camino Real can occur in various different cities and or counties . Each of those occurrences is a point address located at a specific location along the line feature or at a point feature. To uniquely designate it it is often necessary to add an appropriate city county and state context.

In accordance with an embodiment the super set of coordinates comprises a number k of coordinate sets wherein k is the number of geographic points comprised in the location. Each coordinate super set comprises one or more of a geographic coordinate set. Each coordinate super set may in addition comprise one or more of a coordinate classification such as a defined coordinate reference system. One such geographic coordinate set comprises the coordinate reference system of a latitude and a longitude and may in addition comprise an elevation. Other coordinate sets may include other geographic coordinate reference systems such as Universal Transverse Mercator UTM or a linear referencing system such as those used in conjunction with major motorways or cell phone towers.

In accordance with an embodiment a third component of a ULRO is a ULRC. A ULRC is assigned so as to uniquely correspond to the location. Once a ULRC is retired it cannot be reused. In one embodiment the ULRO comprises a counter capable of ensuring that the assigned ULRC was not previously assigned to another location. According to another embodiment once created a ULRO may be stored in a central repository of ULROs each of which is indexed according to its ULRC. This provides an alternative way to the counter of ensuring that ULRC s are not reused. When an already created ULRC is needed the repository recognizes this and provides the appropriate ULRC so that a new one is not created which would be duplicative needless and confusing.

It may not be immediately apparent to the reader why both the set of name information and the super set of coordinates components and respectively of the ULRO are necessary when the ULRC is also incorporated as part of the ULRO. However such apparent redundancy is desirable to ensure smooth error free integration of information from different sources. By way of example a determination may be needed as to whether new item 3823 from data source B can be associated with an existing ULRO or alternatively needs a new ULRO created. Name information and coordinate information serve as a means of discovering the correct ULRO if it exists. Once so discovered the geographic item then points to that ULRC and future retrievals no longer require name and coordinate comparisons. If no such ULRO is found then a new ULRO is created and the geographic item is associated with that. Otherwise it might for example be possible to confuse the Canadian province of Ontario with the town of Ontario in Southern California or to confuse 32 El Camino Real Menlo Park with 32 El Camino Real Palo Alto .

It is common for a location to have the same name as the street on which it is located and it is extremely common for streets of the same name to comprise multiple sections located at a number of different places in a particular city. Some American states even have more than one municipality of the same name making confusion likely in the absence of such additional information as name information and coordinate information. Thus all three are necessary to adequately describe a particular location the first two being needed to describe the location and the third needed to effectively facilitate traversibility and compactness.

As a practical matter most files will contain some form of data belonging to at least two of these three categories of information. Under most circumstances the two categories will suffice to form the correct item to item link but certainly with all three categories present such a linkage can be formed without problem. Once a ULRO is created all associated geographic items can be linked in third party data. It is at this time that all the fields of the ULRO can be used to make an accurate decision as to which geographic items should go with which ULROs i.e. which objects are different manifestations of the same location .

For example in the case of El Camino Real an object in the file of reference representing that street might be preliminarily equated with an apparently corresponding object in a map created by a third party. The two maps might disagree about some details relating to the street but once the equivalence of the two objects is established then name information and coordinates become less critical to the linkage of the two objects and the two maps.

Furthermore the ULRC uniquely corresponds to the location and is not duplicated with any other location. Once assigned a ULRC can only be used with reference to the location to which it is assigned. The ULRC will normally remain the same for the same location. The fact that a particular location is always described by the same ULRC facilitates reconciliation of different maps that may have been created pursuant to different mapping algorithms and or pursuant to different mapping technologies. The ULRC enables the matching and or joining of different electronic files such as electronic maps or an electronic map with a series of third party spatial data content files.

In accordance with an embodiment a fourth component of the ULRO is the file of reference pointer field. The file of reference pointer field comprises a file of reference pointer which uniquely designates a geographic item associated with a location in the file of reference. Each file of reference pointer may further comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the file of reference point a type and class of the file of reference pointer and other file of reference information.

In accordance with an embodiment a fifth component of the ULRO is the third party file pointer field. The third party file pointer field comprises one or more third party file pointers each of which uniquely designates one or more geographic item that refer to said location in one of said one or more third party files. The number n of third party pointers pertaining to a particular location equals the number of separate geographic items summed over the number of third party files comprising the location. There can be many third party databases but only one file of reference.

The third party file pointer field may further comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the third party file pointer a type and class of the third party file pointer and other third party file pointer information. The third party file pointer field may either be comprised in the ULRO or may be comprised in a side file external to the ULRO.

In accordance with an embodiment a sixth component of the ULRO is the file of reference back pointer field. The file of reference back pointer field comprises a file of reference back pointer pointing from said file of reference back to the ULRC. Each file of reference back pointer may further comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the file of reference back pointer a type and class of the file of reference back pointer and other file of reference back pointer information.

In accordance with an embodiment a seventh component of the ULRO is the third party file back pointer field. The third party file back pointer field comprises one or more third party file back pointers wherein each said third party file back pointer uniquely points from one of said third party files back to said ULRO namely the ULRC. The number n of third party pointers pertaining to a particular location equals the number of separate geographic items summed over the number of third party files comprising the location. Each third party file back pointer may comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the third party file back pointer a type and class of the third party file back pointer and other third party file back pointer information.

In accordance with an embodiment an eighth component of the ULRO is the metadata field. The metadata field comprises one or more of the following a ULRO classification a time of creation of the ULRO a type and class of the ULRO and other metadata information.

The file of reference pointer field and the third party file pointer field may each either be contained within the ULRO or may be contained in a side file external to the ULRO. For any embodiment in which the ULRO does not internally contain a file of reference pointer field a side file containing the file of reference pointer field is defined. Similarly for any embodiment in which the ULRO does not internally contain a third party file pointer field a side file containing the third party file pointer field is defined. Those embodiments in which the ULRO internally contains both a file of reference pointer field and a third party file pointer field will typically not require use of side files. On the other hand if the ULRO does not internally contain both a file of reference pointer field and a third party file pointer field side files containing the needed pointer field s will be necessary. When a new third party is added a small modification to the URLO is needed but only if the third party pointer isn t stored in a side file namely a third party pointer field is added to the ULRO when in a side file that is done in the side file and no modification to the ULRO proper is required .

As described above ULROs are designed to be used with reference to locations. A ULRO is comprised of a ULRC which comprises a permanent identification code specifically designed to refer to a geographic item that is associated with a location. The ULRO encodes information about its corresponding location thereby facilitating the grouping of related geographic items associated with that location that are spread over possibly many files As such ULROs and more particularly ULRC s allow for the recognition of the equivalence or identity of features in one or more different maps. ULROs facilitate the dynamic combination of one or more maps into one virtual map with traversable connectivity between different geographic items regardless of the map s that are the ultimate origins of each geographic item. For example if one considers a San Francisco map embodiments of the present invention enable the creation of a virtual map with traversable connectivity between elements derived from a San Francisco street map a San Francisco railroad map and a San Francisco restaurant and parking facilities data file. The interaction of streets restaurants parking facilities and railroads with each other can then be captured and offered to the operator. With the aid of the virtual database technology described in co pending application Ser. No. 11 742 937 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A VIRTUAL DATABASE ENVIRONMENT AND GENERATING DIGITAL MAP INFORMATION inventors Gil Fuchs et al. filed May 1 2007 and incorporated herein by reference relationships between streets restaurants parking facilities and railroads can be specified by the operator and displayed as an output from the virtual map. For example the operator may wish to know the street on which a particular restaurant is located and what parking facilities will take a parking validation from that restaurant or what the train schedule is for trains arriving at the nearby railroad station. This is more powerful than the traditional layered view. Using traditional techniques coordinates of a location which might be sufficiently accurate or not together with the process of reverse geo coding could be used to discover which other streets are near but that process is both time consuming and inaccurate. Also with traditional techniques no mechanisms exist to enable relationships between disparate geographic items to be maintained short of integrating all data into a single electronic map file. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention direct pointing and explicit relationships allow for both quick and indisputably accurate results.

Furthermore additional attributes can also be folded in regardless of whether the information is contained in the form of a map or in another form. For example if the restaurant information is a text listing of restaurant names it can be combined with the railroad and street maps to create a virtual map as easily and effectively as if the restaurant information was in map format. Of course the name of a restaurant must be augmented with spatial data address or coordinates so it can be linked to the appropriate ULRO. Further information that may be integrated from data in map format text format or another format could include for example the age of each house on a particular street or in a particular area a list of owners of restaurants a list of types of food served by each restaurant train schedules data on the age of each train track or the position of entrances to the area s rapid transit system. Once created a virtual map is operationally indistinguishable from a single map with traversable links between items. Through the use of ULROs it is easier for operators of end user applications to obtain spatially relevant data from virtual maps. Virtual maps are capable of using embodiments of the invention to usefully and accessibly combine the information in a file of reference with information comprised in one or more of a variety of third party sources.

As described above in accordance with an embodiment some fields in the ULRO can be left blank while the only mandatory field is the ULRC. It is also mandatory that the set of name information and the set of coordinates cannot both be blank at the same time although either one or the other can be blank for a particular ULRO.

The use of ULRO hierarchies and ULRO groups both of which are described in further detail below allows other types of linking so that almost any combination of file of reference and third party file is possible. Furthermore links can be either unidirectional pointers bidirectional pointers or a mix of both uni and bi directional pointers. This feature provides that while in the file of reference appears as a base map it is also possible to treat any of the third party files equally as the file of reference and for the locations therein to be similarly linked to information in the other files. The bidirectional nature of the ULRO mapping allows any third party file to act as the file of reference and allows the file of reference to act as a third party file depending on the particular application.

As shown in in accordance with an embodiment the ULRO logically resides in three places within the ULRO environment. The bulk of the ULRO can reside almost anywhere such as within a file on a server connected to the Internet. The complete ULRO also includes other components i.e. back pointers that are physically associated with the file of reference and with the third party files respectively. In accordance with an embodiment the ULRO comprises a set of name information a coordinate super set a ULRC a file of reference pointer field a third party file pointer field a file of reference back pointer field a third party file back pointer field and a metadata field .

In accordance with an embodiment the set of name information comprises one or more of the following 1 an address which in turn comprises one or more of the following 1a a postal code 1b a street number 1c a street name 1d a hierarchical area address system with a sequence of names and 1e other address information 2 a named place 3 a telephone number 4 geographic name information and 5 other name information . In accordance with an embodiment the geographic name information comprises one or more of the following 4a name information for a point feature 4b name information for a line feature 4c name information for an area feature 4d name information for a volume feature 4e name information for a segment of a line feature 4f name information for a sector of an area feature 4g name information for a section of a volume feature and 4h name information for a plurality of related geographic items .

In accordance with an embodiment the ULRO comprises one or a plurality k of coordinate super sets wherein k is the number of coordinate super sets comprised in the physical location that is in turn associated with the geographic item . For clarity in the example shown in a single coordinate super set is illustrated but a ULRO could comprise one two or more coordinate super sets. Each coordinate super set comprises k geographic coordinate sets . The geographic coordinate set in turn comprises geographic coordinates such as a latitude and a longitude and may also comprise an elevation . In accordance with an embodiment the coordinate super set also comprises a coordinate classification and other coordinate information . Optionally information relating to a linear referencing system such as those used in conjunction with major motorways or cell phone towers can be included. This may for example include information relating to a cellular phone network associated with the location . This allows the system to use cell phone towers or linear referencing schemes or a combination of any of these instead of geographic coordinates or alternatively the system can use a combination of both geographic and cell phone coordinates. In other embodiments the coordinate super set can be assigned with reference to a transportation network such as a railway system or a highway linear referencing system.

As described above the ULRC uniquely corresponds to the location. In accordance with an embodiment the ULRC comprises an identification code . The ULRC may also comprise other ULRC information .

In accordance with an embodiment the file of reference pointer field comprises when appropriate a file of reference pointer that designates said location in said file of reference . Each file of reference pointer may further comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the file of reference pointer information identifying a type and class of the file of reference pointer field and other file of reference pointer field information .

In accordance with an embodiment the third party file pointer field comprises one or more third party file pointers each of which uniquely designates one or more said location associated item s in one of said one or more third party files . The number of third party file pointers pertaining to a particular one geographic item associated with a location equals the total number of associations within those third party files that comprises the geographic item associated with the location . For any particular third party file there may be either one or more than one association within each file. Assuming that each third party file will usually provide at least some information for the geographic item associated with the location then the total number of third party pointers will typically be at least equal to the number of third party files but will often be greater by the number of additional associations. Each third party file pointer may further comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the third party file pointer a type and class of the third party file pointer and other third party file pointer field information .

In accordance with an embodiment the file of reference back pointer field comprises a file of reference back pointer pointing from the file of reference back to said central component of said ULRO and more specifically back to the ULRC code . The file of reference back pointer while a part of the logical ULRO is resident in the file of reference and is there to facilitate the two way traversal between data items. Each file of reference back pointer may further comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the file of reference back pointer a type and class of the file of reference back pointer and other file of reference back pointer information .

In accordance with an embodiment the third party file back pointer field comprises one or more third party file back pointers wherein each third party file back pointer uniquely points from one of the third party files back to the ULRO and more specifically back to the ULRC code . The third party file back pointer while a part of the logical ULRO is resident in the third party file and is there to facilitate the two way traversal between data items. As with the number of third party file pointers above the total number of third party file back pointers associated with a particular location will typically be at least equal to the number of third party files comprising the location but since some third party files may provide two or more associations the total number will often be greater by that number of additional associations. Each third party file back pointer may further comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the third party file back pointer information identifying a type and class of the third party file back pointer and other third party file back pointer information .

The embodiment shown in also includes a metadata field comprising one or more of the following a ULRO classification a time of creation of the ULRO a type and class of the ULRO and other metadata information . In accordance with an embodiment the metadata information can be used to create hierarchical links between the ULROs as described in further detail below. In accordance with other embodiments the hierarchical information can be maintained in other logical components. With the star configuration shown in it is easier to add another third party or user file i.e. the total number N then growing to N 1 without affecting all of the previous users or third parties. For example to establish a link or connection between an object in a first map and an object in a second map assuming they are different versions of the same object the system must maintain a pointer from the first map to the second map and also from the second map to the first map . If a third map is subsequently introduced together with its objects then the first and second maps must both point to the new object in this third map and similarly the third map must point back to both the first and second maps. So over the original two links are now introduced four new ones. Using a traditional method the number of such links would be N N factorial . However in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the ULRO provides that each of the first second and third maps only need to point to the ULRO of the object under consideration while the URLO points to the objects of the first second and third maps. Thus using this approach only 2 times N pointers are needed. It will be evident that for a value of N equal to 3 then the total number of links will be identical using either approach but for a value of N larger than 3 then the star configuration is cheaper i.e. it requires fewer links . The larger the value of N the greater the efficiencies.

As described above the only mandatory field in the ULRO is the ULRC. It is also mandatory that the set of name information and the set of coordinates not both be blank although either one or the other of these fields can be blank for a particular ULRO. In step a set of name information corresponding to a selected location s determined wherein the location is also contained in one or more third party files. In step a super set of coordinates corresponding to the location is determined. Subsequently in step the system provides the assignment of a ULRC to the location if a ULRO does not already exist for the selected location. This ULRC is permanent and unique in its reference to this location. If a ULRO does already exist then in step the full ULRO is retrieved from a central repository. In step a file of reference pointer field is created comprising a file of reference pointer that designates a geographic item associated with a location in the file of reference. In step a third party file pointer field is created comprising one or more third party file pointers each of which uniquely designates the one or more location associated geographic items in one of the one or more third party files. In step a file of reference back pointer field is created comprising a file of reference back pointer pointing from the file of reference back to the ULRC for that ULRO. This back pointer physically resides in the file of reference or in a side file connected with the file of reference. In step a third party file back pointer field is created comprising one or more third party file back pointers wherein each third party file back pointer uniquely points from one of the location associated items of one of the third party files back to the ULRC for that ULRO. This back pointer physically resides in the third party file or a side file connected with the third party file. In step a metadata field is created. Finally in step the name information super set of coordinates ULRC file of reference pointer field third party file pointer field file of reference back pointer field third party file back pointer field and the metadata field are logically combined so as to create the ULRO. In the embodiment described in multiple instances of ULROs can have their central parts stored in files easily accessible to both third party file suppliers and to virtual database VDB applications providers in addition to their customers.

As described above the only mandatory field in the ULRO is the ULRC component. Similarly not all of the above described steps need be executed in forming the ULRO nor do the executed steps need be performed in a particular sequence or even at the same chronological moment in time. For example some information such as a name information may be available at a first point in time and may be included in the ULRO then. Other information such as a coordinate information may only become available at a later point in time perhaps days or months later and may be included in the ULRO only if and when that information becomes available.

The process shown in comprises a number of steps or actions which can generally be performed in any order. In particular several of the steps are properly considered optional actions by the system which may or may not be actually performed such as for example the decision to include a street number in an address or not. As described above the executed steps may also be performed at different chronological moments in time. The various options are shown in for purposes of completeness. Depending on the actual implementation some of these steps may be entirely omitted except that in accordance with one embodiment the only mandatory field is the ULRC. It is also mandatory that the set of name information and the set of coordinates not both be blank although either one of these variables can be blank for a particular ULRO.

In step the system determines a set of name information corresponding to a geographic item that is associated with a location wherein the location also has location associated geographic items contained in a file of reference or in one or more third party files. In step the system determines a set of name information that comprises one or more of the following an address a named place a telephone number geographic name information and other name information . As part of the address information in step the system determines an address that comprises one or more of the following a postal code a street number a street name a hierarchical area address system with a sequence of names and other address information . As part of the geographic name information in step the system determines a geographic name information that comprises one or more of the following name information for a point feature name information for a line feature name information for an area feature name information for a volume feature name information for a segment of a line feature name information for a sector of an area feature name information for a section of a volume feature and name information for one or more related locations . The set of name information for these one or more related locations is in addition to the name information for the primary location and may include information on the relationship among the types of geographic name information and other name information. For example if the ULRO defines geographic item associated with the city of name San Francisco then the name information for a related location might be California and the relationship may be of the type city within a state .

In step the system determines a super set of coordinates corresponding to the geographic item associated with the location.

In step the coordinate super set comprises a number k of coordinate sets needed to describe the geometry of the location. Each coordinate set may comprise one or more of a coordinate classification geographic coordinate set information relating to a linear referencing system such as those used in conjunction with major motorways or cell phone towers and other coordinate information . As part of the geographic coordinate set in step each geographic coordinate set may comprise a latitude and a longitude or the equivalent information from a different coordinate reference system. Each geographic coordinate set may in addition comprise an elevation .

In step the system assigns a ULRC to the geographic item associated with the location if a ULRO does not already exist for the selected item. If a ULRO does already exist then the ULRO is retrieved from a central repository. In step the ULRC that is created or retrieved comprises an identification code. In step the ULRC may comprise other ULRC information.

In step when appropriate a file of reference pointer field is created comprising a file of reference pointer that designates said geographic item associated with the location in the file of reference. In step the file of reference pointer field may comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the file of reference pointer field a type and class of the file of reference pointer field and other file of reference pointer field information . In accordance with an embodiment the system can utilize offset pointer addressing.

In step a third party file pointer field is created. The third party file pointer field comprises one or more third party file pointers each of which uniquely designates the one or more geographic items in the one of the one or more third party files that comprised the location associated geographic item. In step the third party file pointer field may comprise one or more of a time of creation of the third party file pointer field a type and class of the third party file pointer field and other third party file pointer field information .

In step when appropriate a file of reference back pointer field is created. The file of reference back pointer field comprises a file of reference back pointer pointing from the file of reference back to the ULRO and specifically to the ULRC. In step the file of reference back pointer field may comprise one or more of a time of creation of the file of reference back pointer field a type and class of the file of reference back pointer field and other file of reference back pointer field information . The ULRO can be continuously updated and fields can be filled in at any time.

In step a third party file back pointer field is created. The third party file back pointer field comprises one or more third party file back pointers wherein each third party file back pointer uniquely points from one of said location associated geographic items of one of said third party files back to the ULRO. The third party file back pointer field may comprise one or more of the following a time of creation of the third party file back pointer field a type and class of the third party file back pointer field and other third party file back pointer field information . The third party file back pointer is not necessarily created at the same time as the ULRO it is often created when a ULRO receives a request from a third party file that includes a geographic item to be associated with the ULRO.

In step a metadata field may be created. In step the metadata field comprises one or more of the following a ULRO classification a time of creation of the ULRO a type and or class of the ULRO and other metadata information .

Finally in step the set of name information the super set of coordinates the ULRC the file of reference pointer field the third party file pointer field the file of reference back pointer field the third party file back pointer field and the metadata field are combined to create the ULRO.

As mentioned briefly above several advanced features such as the use of ULRO hierarchies and ULRO groups add extra functionality to the ULRO system described herein and allow for great flexibility in linking geographic location information across increasing numbers of third party files and resources 

ULRO Relationships and Hierarchies is an illustration that depicts the use of ULRO relationships and hierarchies in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. shows a system similar to in which ULROs comprising permanent identification codes are assigned to geographic items associated with a location in an electronic file of reference . The ULROs link the geographic items associated with locations in the file of reference with corresponding geographic information associated with a location in one or more third party files . As shown in a single geographic item associated with a location may be linked to a single ULRO . Using ULRO relationships this ULRO may in turn be linked to other ULROs via ULRO relationships . Other ULRO relationships may exist to link ULROs to one another . Since for example ULRO and ULRO do not themselves have a direct pointer link to the geographic item without such a hierarchical link the system would only link the geographic information associated with location via ULRO to location related information . However using ULRO relationships the system is able to also link ULROs together with their location related information to geographic information associated with location .

A special form of ULRO relationship is a ULRO hierarchy. In accordance with an embodiment a ULRO hierarchy specifies that a first ULRO is a parent of a second ULRO while the second ULRO is a child of the first ULRO. A parent ULRO may have many children and grandchildren ULROs. Using ULRO hierarchies the system can provide relationships that equate to familiar and easily understood concepts. For example if ULRO represents the city of San Francisco then its parent ULRO may be the state of California and its parent the entire United States . When the ULRO relationship is a hierarchy then to both avoid circular relationships and to reduce the number of links that must be changed to reflect updated information usually only parent child links are maintained. So as shown in only the parent child links would be used. The grandparent link would not be used nor would it be desirable to have it present in the system.

In accordance with an embodiment the metadata information component can be used to record and maintain the relationships and hierarchical links between the ULROs. In accordance with other embodiments the ULRO relationship and hierarchical information can be maintained in other logical components.

ULRO Groups is an illustration that depicts the use of ULRO groups in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. also shows a system similar to in which ULROs comprising permanent identification codes are assigned to geographic items associated with locations in an electronic file of reference wherein ULROs link the geographic items associated with locations in the file of reference with corresponding location information in one or more third party files . As shown in in addition to the normal case in which a single geographic item associated with a location is linked to a single ULRO here another geographic item can be linked using a group link to a group of the ULROs the group itself being indicated by the box . Linking a single location to a group in this manner allows for more optimal configuration and also equates to familiar and easily understood concepts. For example if items and are local information pertaining to different counties in the state of California then group may be the entire group of ULROs for the counties in the state. Selecting item is equivalent to selecting each of items and but may be more convenient in certain applications

Offset Pointer Addressing In accordance with an embodiment offset pointer addressing allows the system to provide information for locations for which no current object exists. In this instance instead of specifying a pointer to the geographic item in the file of reference or third party file the system can specify a pointer to another geographic item in the file together with an appropriate offset. At a later time direct or non offset pointers may or may not be subsequently created for that location. In accordance with an embodiment the offset pointer can be included in the forward pointer to file of reference box shown in and described above.

Missing Pointers In accordance with an embodiment the ULRO technique allows the system to include support for missing pointers . When a desired geographic item associated with a location is not present in the file of reference but one or more of the third party files do have associated information for that geographic item associated with a location then only those pointers between the third party file and the ULRO may be created. The pointers that would normally link the ULRO to the file of reference are missing. Since as described above the steps used to form a ULRO can be executed in any sequence or even at different chronological moments in time similarly the pointers between the various file of reference and third party files can also be created at different chronological moments in time. When the information becomes available the missing pointer is properly formed linking the new information to the ULRO.

As shown in the system typically includes a computing device which may comprise one or more memories one or more processors and one or more storages or repositories of some sort. The system may further include a display device including a graphical user interface or GUI operating thereon by which the system can display digital maps and other information. The device may under some other circumstances be text based.

The system shown herein can be used to display the contents of the electronic document to an operator or automatically to a computer process running on processor . Because the software for assigning ULROs will typically be proprietary hard coding can be used or embedded within the logic of the system to generate ULROs. When all or part of an electronic file of reference is retrieved from external storage which in some instances may be the same storage as storage ULROs and or ULRCs will be created if they were not previously created or alternatively will be fetched from a central repository if they had been previously created to correspond to a geographic item that is associated with a location comprised in the electronic file of reference . The newly created or retrieved ULRO is used to link the geographic item in the file of reference with location associated information in the third party files. In some cases side files comprising third party pointers may also be used. As described above a feature of the system is its ability to facilitate links with locations and location associated geographic items in a wide variety of present and future document formats. Those ULROs can be created by various schemas. One such schema is to generate a ULRO whenever a need arises such as request by a third party based on its data needs . Another schema of generating ULROs is to preemptively create ULROs based on all addresses and location objects in the file of reference. Hybrid and other schema regimes are possible and conceivable.

Although shown as a single system in several of the components can be distributed over a variety of different computer systems and processors. For example in accordance with one embodiment the user s computer can communicate with a remote server on which all of the database file of reference third party files and other components are located. However in other embodiments for example the file of reference may be located on a different machine from the third party files while the ULRO repository exists on yet another machine. Indeed it is a feature of the present system that the ULRO allows for information to be dynamically linked from a variety of different sources including different vendors even if those sources are widely distributed over a large area or a large area network such as the Internet.

Embodiments of the present invention may be conveniently implemented using a conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the computer art. Appropriate software coding can readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure as will be apparent to those skilled in the software art. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits as will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.

Embodiments of the present invention include a computer program product which is a storage medium media having instructions stored thereon in which can be used to program a computer to perform any of the processes of embodiments of the present invention. The storage medium can include but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical discs DVD CD ROMs microdrive and magneto optical disks ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs DRAMs VRAMs flash memory devices magnetic or optical cards nanosystems including molecular memory ICs or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions and or data.

Stored on any one of the computer readable medium media embodiments of the present invention include software for controlling both the hardware of the general purpose specialized computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human user or other mechanism utilizing the results of embodiments of the present invention. Such software may include but is not limited to device drivers operating systems and user applications. Ultimately such computer readable media further includes software for performing embodiments of the present invention as described above.

Included in the programming software of the general specialized computer or microprocessor are software modules for implementing the teachings of the present invention including but not limited to creating a universal location referencing object ULRO corresponding to a selected location in an electronic file of reference one or more location associated geographic items also being comprised in one or more third party files determining a set of name information corresponding to a selected location determining a super set of coordinates corresponding to the location assigning a universal location referencing code ULRC uniquely corresponding to the location creating a file of reference pointer field comprising a file of reference pointer that designates the location in the file of reference creating a third party file pointer field comprising one or more third party file pointers wherein each third party file pointer uniquely designates the one or more location associated geographic item s in one of the one of more third party files creating a file of reference back pointer field comprising a file of reference back pointer pointing from said file of reference back to said ULRO resident in the file of reference or an associated side file creating a third party file back pointer field comprising third party file back pointers resident in said third party file or an associated side file wherein each said third party file back pointer uniquely points from one location associated geographic item of said third party files back to said ULRO creating a metadata field configured to comprise metadata relating to the ULRO and combining the set of name information the super set of coordinates the ULRC the file of reference pointer field the third party file pointer field the file of reference back pointer field the third party file back pointer field and the metadata field so as to create the ULRO.

The foregoing description of the present invention has been provided for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit embodiments of the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to the practitioner skilled in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments and with various modifications that are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the following claims and their equivalents.

