---

title: Probe device for a metrology instrument and method of fabricating the same
abstract: A method of producing a probe device for a metrology instrument such as an AFM includes providing a substrate having front and back surfaces and then forming an array of tip height structures on the first surface of the substrate, the structures having varying depths corresponding to selectable tip heights. The back surface of the substrate is etched until a thickness of the substrate substantially corresponds to a selected tip height, preferably by monitoring this etch visually and/or monitoring the etch rate. The tips are patterned from the front side of the wafer relative to fixed ends of the cantilevers, and then etched using an anisotropic etch. As a result, probe devices having sharp tips and short cantilevers exhibit fundamental resonant frequencies greater than 700 kHz or more.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07823216&OS=07823216&RS=07823216
owner: Veeco Instruments Inc.
number: 07823216
owner_city: Plainview
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070802
---
This invention was made with United States government support awarded by the following agency NIST ATP Award 70NANB4H3055 . The United States has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed to probe devices for metrology instruments such as atomic force microscopes AFMs and more specifically a method of producing a probe devices that allows for precise and repeatable control over cantilever length tip mass and tip height so as to enable fast scanning AFM operation.

Several probe based metrology instruments monitor the interaction between a cantilever based probe and a sample to obtain information concerning one or more characteristics of the sample. For example scanning probe microscopes SPMs including atomic force microscopes AFMs typically characterize the surface of a sample down to atomic dimensions by monitoring the interaction between the sample and a tip on the cantilever probe. By providing relative scanning movement between the tip and the sample surface characteristic data can be acquired over a particular region of the sample and a corresponding map of the sample can be generated.

The probe of the typical AFM includes a small cantilever which has a fixed end extending from a base a sharp probe tip attached to the free end of the lever generally opposite the base. As discussed further below the physical properties of the probe greatly impact the scan speed at which the AFM may be operated. In operation the probe tip is brought very near to or into contact with a surface of a sample to be examined and the deflection of the cantilever in response to the probe tip s interaction with the sample is measured with a deflection detector such as an optical lever system an example of which is described in Hansma et al. U.S. Pat. No. RE 34 489. The probe may be scanned over a surface using a high resolution three axis scanner acting on the sample support and or the probe. The instrument is thus capable of creating relative motion between the probe and the sample while measuring the topography elasticity or some other surface property of the sample as described e.g. in Hansma et al. U.S. Pat. No. RE 34 489 Elings et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 266 801 and Elings et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 412 980.

AFMs may be designed to operate in a variety of modes including contact mode and oscillating mode. In contact mode operation the microscope typically scans the tip across the surface of the sample while keeping the force of the tip on the surface of the sample generally constant. Some AFMs can at least selectively operate in an oscillation mode of operation such as TappingMode TappingMode is a trademark of Veeco Instruments Inc. operation. In TappingMode operation the tip is oscillated typically at or near a resonant frequency of the cantilever of the probe. The amplitude or phase of this oscillation is kept constant during scanning using feedback signals which are generated in response to tip sample interaction. As in contact mode these feedback signals are then collected stored and used as data to characterize the sample.

Regardless of their mode of operation AFMs can obtain resolution down to the atomic level on a wide variety of insulating or conductive surfaces in air liquid or vacuum by using piezoelectric scanners optical lever deflection detectors and very small cantilevers fabricated using photolithographic techniques. Because of their resolution and versatility AFMs are particularly important measurement devices in many diverse fields including with particular application in connection with the present preferred embodiments semiconductor manufacturing.

A scanning probe microscope such as an atomic force microscope AFM operates by providing relative scanning movement between a measuring probe and a sample while measuring one or more properties of the sample. A typical AFM system is shown schematically in . An AFM employing a probe device including a probe having a cantilever . Probe is often a microfabricated cantilever with an integrated tip . A scanner generates relative motion between the probe and sample while the probe sample interaction is measured. In this way images or other measurements of the sample can be obtained. Scanner is typically comprised of one or more actuators that usually generate motion in three orthogonal directions XYZ . Often scanner is a single integrated unit that includes one or more actuators to move either the sample or the probe in all three axes for example a piezoelectric tube actuator. Alternatively the scanner may be an assembly of multiple separate actuators. Some AFMs separate the scanner into multiple components for example an XY scanner that moves the sample and a separate Z actuator that moves the probe.

In a common configuration probe is often coupled to an oscillating actuator or drive that is used to drive probe at or near a resonant frequency of cantilever . Alternative arrangements measure the deflection torsion or other motion of cantilever .

Commonly an electronic signal is applied from an AC signal source under control of an SPM controller to cause actuator or alternatively scanner to drive the probe to oscillate. The probe sample interaction is typically controlled via feedback by controller . Notably the actuator may be coupled to the scanner and probe but may be formed integrally with the cantilever of probe as part of a self actuated cantilever probe.

Often a selected probe is oscillated and brought into contact with sample as sample characteristics are monitored by detecting changes in one or more characteristics of the oscillation of probe as described above. In this regard a deflection detection apparatus is typically employed to direct a beam towards the backside of probe the beam then being reflected towards a detector such as a four quadrant photodetector. Note that the sensing light source of apparatus is typically a laser preferably a visible or infrared laser diode. The sensing light beam can also be generated by other light sources for example a He Ne or other laser source a superluminescent diode SLD an LED an optical fiber or any other light source that can be focused to a small spot. As the beam translates across detector appropriate signals are transmitted to controller which processes the signals to determine changes in the oscillation of probe . In general controller generates control signals to maintain a relative constant interaction between the tip and sample or deflection of the lever typically to maintain a setpoint characteristic of the oscillation of probe . For example controller is often used to maintain the oscillation amplitude at a setpoint value A to insure a generally constant force between the tip and sample. Alternatively a setpoint phase or frequency may be used.

A workstation is also provided in the controller and or in a separate controller or system of connected or stand alone controllers that receives the collected data from the controller and manipulates the data obtained during scanning to perform point selection curve fitting and distance determining operations. The workstation can store the resulting information in memory use it for additional calculations and or display it on a suitable monitor and or transmit it to another computer or device by wire or wirelessly. The memory may comprise any computer readable data storage medium examples including but not limited to a computer RAM hard disk network storage a flash drive or a CD ROM. Notably scanner often comprises a piezoelectric stack often referred to herein as a piezo stack or piezoelectric tube that is used to generate relative motion between the measuring probe and the sample surface. A piezo stack is a device that moves in one or more directions based on voltages applied to electrodes disposed on the stack. Piezo stacks are often used in combination with mechanical flexures that serve to guide constrain and or amplify the motion of the piezo stacks. Additionally flexures are used to increase the stiffness of actuator in one or more axis as described in copending application Ser. No. 11 687 304 filed Mar. 16 2007 entitled Fast Scanning SPM Scanner and Method of Operating Same. Actuators may be coupled to the probe the sample or both. Most typically an actuator assembly is provided in the form of an XY actuator that drives the probe or sample in a horizontal or XY plane and a Z actuator that moves the probe or sample in a vertical or Z direction.

At present the broadening use of SPM has demanded greater performance over a wider range of applications. For example AFM metrology is increasingly being utilized in semiconductor fabrication facilities primarily due to recent developments in automated AFM tools able to acquire sample measurements with higher throughput such as the Dimension line of AFMs offered by Veeco Instruments Inc. These tools are able to provide a variety of sub nanoscale measurements therefore making AFM a viable tool for measuring for example critical dimensions of device features such as trenches and vias.

No matter the application a significant limitation to AFM performance is often the speed at which the AFM can scan the sample. As mentioned previously the construction of the probe device significantly impacts scan speed. Two primary characteristics of probe devices usable for fast scanning applications are a sharp tip and precise control over cantilever dimensions. Techniques are known for producing probes with sharp tips but they are typically low yield and often provide only limited control over the length of the cantilever which ideally is maintained at less than about 50 microns.

More generally to enable fast scanning in scanning probe microscopy control must be maintained over the resonant frequency of the cantilever as well as its spring constant while the damping characteristics of the probe when oscillating must also be considered. These factors are primarily controlled by geometric factors associated with the probes including length of the cantilever width of the cantilever cantilever thickness and tip height. As noted to maintain high yield and performance precise control of this geometry should be maintained.

In this regard techniques for producing silicon nitride cantilevers with integral sharp tips are known. For example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 358 to Quate et al. describes a technique for producing silicon nitride probe devices. However according to the Quate et al. technique it is difficult to scale to small cantilevers with precise control over the cantilever length as well as the mass and the height of the silicon tip. More particularly in processes such as those disclosed in the 358 patent as well as in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 021 364 and 5 811 017 electrochemical etch stops must be used in conjunction with a heavily doped silicon or silicon on insulator wafers. This is due to the fact that when the required electrochemical wet etch is performed FIG. 4 of the 358 patent some structure is required to halt the etch when forming the cantilever 36 in the 358 patent . Doped silicon provides the appropriate structure thus allowing the silicon to remain intact with the backside etch.

However there are significant drawbacks to using either heavily doped silicon or silicon on insulator wafers. Problems with prior art techniques include high cost lower production yields stress bending of cantilevers and rough backside surfaces that interfere with successful use of the optical lever technique. Many prior art techniques also have issues with errors associated with mask alignment especially frontside to backside alignment. These issues create a typical manufacturing tolerance for cantilever length and or tip position of roughly 5 m. This manufacturing tolerance makes it difficult to manufacture small cantilevers for example smaller than 50 m or worse smaller than 10 m with sufficient accuracy concerning its cantilever spring constant resonant frequency and tip offset from the free end of the cantilever.

Tip formation is also less than ideal with these known techniques exhibiting undesirable variations in tip height and tip sharpness. As a result conventional techniques do not exist that produce short cantilevers through parallel processing on the wafer scale with high yield sharp tips e.g. tip radius less than 20 nm for example and tip heights less than about 4 microns.

As a result the field of atomic force microscopy was in need of a microfabrication process that produces an AFM probe having an integral tip and provides precise control over cantilever length to produce probe devices having cantilevers with lengths less than 50 m and preferably less than 40 microns and more preferably less than 10 microns.

The preferred embodiments are directed to a process of producing small cantilevers for high speed AFM scanning with high production yield and without the limitations of known techniques. The preferred techniques avoid using an electro chemical etch to define tip height and thus do not require highly doped silicon or SOI wafers to produce the probe devices. Control over cantilever length in comparison to known processes e.g. about 5 microns is greatly improved with the present techniques being capable of accuracy in the range of about 1 micron. Moreover precise control is maintained over silicon tip mass and tip height. Short cantilevers can thus be more readily and reliably produced with high yield. In that regard yield is further facilitated by providing patterned holding tabs that minimize unintentional dislodging of the resultant thin levered prove devices from the substrate.

According to one aspect of the preferred embodiment a probe device for a probe microscope includes a base as well as a cantilever made of silicon nitride. The cantilever has a fixed end and a free end with the free end supporting a silicon tip positioned within about 5 m of the free end. In this case the cantilever has a length less than about 50 m while a height of the tip is less than about 4 m with the effective tip radius being less than about 20 nm.

In another aspect of this embodiment the fundamental resonant frequency of the cantilever is greater than 500 kHz.

In a further aspect of this embodiment the quality factor Q of the cantilever in air is less than about one hundred when the tip is interacting with a sample.

According to yet another aspect of this embodiment the height of the tip is substantially determined by monitoring an etch on one side of a wafer. The etch reveals at least one of a series of thickness monitor features formed on a side of the wafer opposite the one side.

In a still further aspect of this embodiment the etch is terminated once a thickness of the wafer substantially corresponds to a selected tip height. In this case the etch is terminated by visually monitoring the etch.

According to another aspect of this preferred embodiment the etch is terminated based on an etch rate associated with the etch.

According to a still further aspect of this embodiment the tip is positioned by measuring during fabrication a distance between a tip pattern and the fixed end. The fixed end of the cantilever is typically formed as a result of the backside etch used to reveal tip height monitor features. Importantly the fixed end of the cantilever is visible from the opposite side of the wafer the front side thus allowing the distance between the tip pattern and the fixed end to be measured.

In a further aspect of this embodiment the probe device is formed from a silicon wafer. Notably the silicon wafer may be a bulk single crystal silicon wafer.

In another aspect of this preferred embodiment a thickness of the cantilever is less than about 2 microns with a tolerance of about 0.1 micron.

According to another aspect of this embodiment the thickness is less than about 1 micron. Moreover the thickness is substantially uniform and the tolerance can be maintained among a plurality of probe devices. Further the plurality of probe devices may include probe devices formed from different wafers.

According to another preferred embodiment a probe device for a probe microscope includes a base and a cantilever made of silicon nitride. The cantilever has a fixed end and a free end and supports a silicon tip positioned within about 5 m of the free end. In this embodiment the tip height is less than about 4 m the effective tip radius is less than about 20 nm and the cantilever has a fundamental resonant frequency of greater than about 500 kHz. Ideally the quality factor Q of the cantilever in air is less than about 100 when the probe tip is interacting with a sample.

According to another aspect of this preferred embodiment the resonant frequency is greater than about 700 kHz.

In yet another aspect of the preferred embodiment the resonant frequency is greater than about 5 MHz.

According to a still further aspect of the preferred embodiments a length of the cantilever is less than about 50 m with a precision less than about 1 5 m.

In a still further aspect of the preferred embodiments the cantilever length is less than about 50 m with a precision less than about 1 m.

According to a still further aspect of the preferred embodiments the tip height is substantially determined by monitoring an etch on one side of a wafer and wherein the etch reveals at least one of a series of tip height monitor features formed on a side of the wafer opposite the one side. Here the etch is terminated once a thickness of the silicon wafer substantially corresponds to a selected tip height.

In yet another aspect of the preferred embodiments a method for fabricating a probe for a probe microscope includes providing a bulk single crystal silicon wafer etching a region of the silicon wafer to a desired thickness and then depositing silicon nitride on the backside of the etched silicon region to provide material to form the lever. Thereafter the tip is patterned and etched from the etched silicon region and then the cantilever is patterned and etched from the silicon nitride. The cantilever may have a length of less than about 50 m and the tip may be positioned within about 5 m of the free end of the cantilever. The resultant tip is sharp with an effective radius less than about 20 nm.

According to a still further aspect of the preferred embodiments the tip has a height less than about 4 m.

In yet another aspect of the preferred embodiment a tip height monitor feature is formed to control the etching step.

According to another aspect of this preferred embodiment the tip height is controlled by monitoring a back side etch of the wafer.

According to a still further aspect of the preferred embodiments the monitoring step includes at least one of monitoring etch rate and visually inspecting the wafer.

In another aspect of this embodiment during fabrication the tip is positioned by measuring a distance between a tip pattern and the fixed end.

In yet another aspect of the preferred embodiment the probe device is one of an array of probe devices fabricated from the substrate and the yield is greater than about 90 .

According to another aspect of this preferred embodiment the silicon nitride is supported by a thin film. The thin film may be an oxide.

In yet another aspect of the preferred embodiment the thickness of the silicon nitride is less than about 2 microns with a tolerance of about 0.1 micron.

According to a still further aspect of this preferred embodiment probe device yield is maintained greater than about 90 .

In yet another aspect of the preferred embodiment a probe device includes a base etched from a bulk silicon substrate wafer and a cantilever made of silicon nitride. The cantilever has a fixed end and a free end with a tip being substantially supported by the free end. In these embodiments the cantilever has a length that is less than about 50 microns which can be produced while maintaining a precision less than about 5 microns and even less than 1 micron.

In yet another aspect of the preferred embodiment a method of fabricating a probe device for a metrology instrument includes producing at least three probe devices each from a different substrate and each having a length less than about 50 microns wherein a standard deviation of the lengths is less than about 0.5 micron.

In yet another aspect of the preferred embodiment a probe device for a scanning probe microscope includes a base a cantilever extending from the base at a substantially fixed end. The cantilever also has a free end while a tip extends substantially orthogonally from the free end. Ideally the tip can be maintained within about 50 microns of the substantially fixed end with a tolerance of about plus minus 2 microns.

These and other features and advantages of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating preferred embodiments of the present invention are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention without departing from the spirit thereof and the invention includes all such modifications.

The preferred embodiments are directed to a micro fabrication technique in which probe devices are lithographically patterned and etched from a substrate such as silicon ideally bulk single crystal silicon wafers. The resultant probe devices are particularly useful for high speed metrology applications particularly using AFM given that the process yields probes having high aspect ratio tips and short cantilevers and thus large resonant frequencies. According to the invention the yield of useable probe devices is greatly improved over known methods by maintaining flexibility with regard to the type of substrate that may be employed to produce the probe devices e.g. the substrate can be bulk silicon that is lightly doped or undoped as well as providing a scheme in which the tip of the probe device is aligned to the fixed end of the cantilever from the front side of the wafer without moving the wafer so as to allow precise control over cantilever length. Probe devices having cantilever lengths less than 50 microns and more ideally less than 10 microns can be repeatably and reliably produced even across several wafers with a standard deviation in the lengths of the cantilevers that are less than about 0.5 micron. Also a scheme for controlling tip height is employed to produce tips with aspect ratios in a range of about 1 to 3 with tip heights less than about 4 microns and effective tip radii less than about 20 nm. As a result probes having fundamental resonant frequencies greater than about 500 kHz and even greater than 5 MHz can be produced. To facilitate maximizing yield the relatively thin probe devices produced according to the techniques described herein are held within the wafer using patterned and etched holding tabs that allow ready removal of the probes yet substantially prevent inadvertent separation of the probe devices from the wafer.

Turning initially to a top view of a silicon substrate from which an array of probe devices usable for high speed scanning probe microscopy can be fabricated is shown. A series or array of tip height or membrane thickness monitor windows is patterned on at least a portion of the substrate opposed ends in this case to not only provide a way to monitor and substantially define a selected probe tip height as described further below but also to align the front and back sides of the wafer during processing. These monitor windows are shown on either side of the perimeter of wafer with more or less windows being required based on the uniformity of the membrane etching process that is described below. Notably controlling probe tip height facilitates achieving large fundamental resonant frequencies and allows the probe device manufacturer to manage squeeze film damping between the probe and sample during SPM operation.

Referring next to the array of monitor windows shown in is used to substantially define tip height in the following way. Array includes monitor windows having varying widths in this case increasing from left to right that are patterned on the wafer for subsequent etching of the wafer at those locations. In that regard as the features are etched preferably using an anisotropic etch a series of substrate or membrane thickness monitor features or tip height structures in the shape of V grooves are formed in the silicon substrate with the V grooves reaching a depth that is dependent on the width of the patterned monitor feature as explained immediately below. V grooves result due to the lattice structure of the silicon. More specifically the anisotropic etch terminates on particular planes of the silicon the 111 planes in this case. Once the 111 planes are reached for the corresponding end points width wise of the patterned feature the etch terminates and the depth of the feature i.e. V groove is defined. A backside etch is then performed to expose a selected one of the V grooves and thus produce a wafer membrane that is subsequently used to fabricate tips having a desired height as described further immediately below in connection with .

Referring to using conventional thin film deposition and lithography techniques membrane thickness monitor windows are patterned on the wafer. In one embodiment starting with a substrate such as a silicon wafer a layer of oxide e.g. SiO is deposited on the wafer both sides and then a layer of silicon nitride is deposited on the oxide. The oxide and nitride act as etch masks for the following process steps. Next a photoresist is spun onto the oxide and nitride layers and an appropriate mask not shown is used to pattern the monitor features on the wafer. More particularly an array of windows such as that illustrated in are patterned onto the top surface of the substrate. Thereafter the silicon is etched anisotropically through array of windows so that membrane thickness monitor features in the shape of V grooves are formed as the etch terminates on the 111 planes of the silicon crystal associated with the end points of the width w of the features in . Again the V grooves have known depths directly related to the widths of the tip height features.

Next large windows corresponding to the one or more arrays are patterned on the backside of the wafer. The edges of these windows are shown schematically in . The large windows on the backside are correspondingly aligned to one or more of the membrane thickness monitor arrays using standard alignment features and standard front to backside alignment equipment for example an aligner that employs a frontside backside aligner from the Karl Suss Co. In particular the major axis of window is positioned substantially perpendicular to the major axes of front side windows . This alignment is accomplished so that window accommodates an etch through the wafer directly below membrane thickness monitor array as shown in .

More particularly in process the back side etch is monitored visually from the front side typically using illumination from the front or back sides. The etch is stopped when the V groove having a depth corresponding to a selected desired thickness d of monitor membrane which is directly related to tip height breaks through to the backside of the wafer as shown in . Alternatively the timing at which deeper V grooves for instance V groove for desired V groove break through can be used to predict the appropriate time to stop the etch i.e. an etch rate can be determined based on visual monitoring of V groove break through and using that information to determine about when to terminate the etch.

At the same time monitor membrane s is being formed device membranes shown in of the probes of the array of probes being fabricated are etched with a thickness that is substantially the same as the thickness d of monitor membrane . Again it is this thickness d of device membrane that is used to control the AFM probe tip height.

This formation of the probe device is described in further detail and illustrated schematically in . Referring initially to layers of silicon dioxide and silicon nitride remain on the wafer both front and back sides once the monitor membrane is formed to a desired thickness d. In producing membrane with the back side etch a structure also results. Structure forms the base of the probe device described further below which also substantially defines the location of a fixed end of what ultimately will become the cantilever of each probe device.

At this point a layer of silicon nitride is deposited on the silicon substrate front and back sides the nitride ultimately being processed to form the cantilever. The formation of nitride layer is important in that the thickness of the layer determines the thickness of the cantilever which as noted earlier is a factor in determining the performance characteristics of the probe device including its fundamental resonant frequency. By controlling the thickness of the nitride deposition the cantilever can be made thinner to facilitate a more optimum probe device resonant frequency thus allowing the probe and the AFM as a whole to operate at greater speeds. Nitride thickness may be monitored using any thin film measurement tool including for example an ellipsometer or another similar tool such as optical tools that measure reflectivity. Alternatively fourier transform spectroscopy FTIR which employs infrared interferometry to measure the thickness of the film may be employed.

To deposit the nitride low pressure chemical vapor deposition LPCVD may be used. LPCVD advantageously provides a nitride layer that is low stress thereby minimizing the adverse affects inherent to prior SPM probes fabricated for example with high stress silicon levers. High stress silicon levers most often require that the stress be compensated to accommodate lever bending for instance thus adding further complexity to the design and ultimately limiting performance.

For the applications contemplated by the present invention substantially even thickness is preferably maintained in a range dependent on the length of the lever and the desired fundamental resonant frequency. With the present silicon nitride levers lever thicknesses less than two microns are desired and thicknesses less than one micron are possible with a corresponding tolerance of about 6 or about 0.1 micron. This precise control over lever thickness further facilitates yield with the present embodiments being able to maintain uniform cantilever thickness within the stated tolerances across a wafer as well as between wafers.

After the deposition of the silicon nitride layer a support film or layer e.g. silicon dioxide a metal a polymer can be deposited as an option. Support film a metal or a polymer for instance may be deposited after the nitride to give the membrane more structural integrity or reduce stress of the nitride deposition and or to provide an etch stop for the formation of the cantilever. By reinforcing the probe device in this way the patterning of the tip which occurs in the next step shown in can be re run without compromising the integrity of the device membrane . This patterning and re patterning may be performed if it is determined that initial alignment will not yield cantilevers having the desired length. Ideal positioning of the patterned tip including the improved accuracy achieved over known techniques is described further below.

A tip feature is then patterned onto the front side of the substrate as illustrated in in this case using global alignment marks. Then as shown in an anisotropic etch is used on the front side to form the generally pyramid shaped tip. In this case the width of the base of the tip is substantially defined by the width of the pattern imaged onto the front side silicon nitride as well as the silicon oxide and nitride therebelow .

More specifically when performing the front side etch in this way the geometry of the resultant tip structure typically includes two pyramid shaped structures disposed one on top of the other tip to tip. Once the etch is complete the top pyramid breaks from the bottom pyramid thus causing oxide nitride and nitride layers to be removed as well. This leaves a high aspect ratio tip having a height less than the membrane thickness d results. This formation of the tip using an anisotropic etch to terminate the etch on particle facets of the substrate structure i.e. crystal structure facilitates producing tips with greater sharpness than known techniques that typically yield tips with rounded distal ends by patterning the surfaces of the tip with conventional lithography techniques as described for example in the 358 patent .

When patterning the tip especially for the high speed AFM applications contemplated by the present invention the location of this patterning is important to establishing overall device geometry most notably cantilever length l. The location of the tip relative to the fixed end of the lever substantially defines the effective length of the lever except overhang discussed below and thus impacts the performance characteristics e.g. resonant frequency of the probe device. In this regard the user first patterns the tip based on global mask alignment associated with producing an array of probe devices. Once written however the distance between the patterned tip feature and the fixed end of the cantilever may be less than ideal for achieving the goals of the preferred embodiments. Fortunately the fixed end of the lever is generally visible from the front side . The fixed end of the cantilever point on the backside is visible because the deposited silicon nitride film is substantially transparent through the relatively thin silicon membrane unlike those methods for producing probes having silicon levers. Notably to further facilitate this viewing illumination front or backside is typically employed.

With point known the distance between the fixed end and the patterned tip can be relatively accurately measured from the front side. Advantageously cantilever length can then be substantially confirmed prior to etching the silicon to form the tip. In the event that the alignment between tip feature and fixed end is not acceptable the probe device fabricator can strip tip feature from the front side and make appropriate position adjustments and re write the feature in an attempt to produce the desired separation between the tip and the fixed end of the lever. This process can be repeated several times if needed to achieve the desired location of the patterned tip. As noted above however multiple stripping and re writing steps can compromise the integrity of the device membrane and thus that of the silicon nitride lever. As a result and as also noted previously an oxide layer or a metal or another suitable film may be used to reinforce the lever to resist membrane rupture during processing.

In sum the tip masks can be positioned to pattern tips which can thereafter be measured during probe device fabrication to determine their location relative to the fixed end of the corresponding levers. As a result the present techniques can be used to repeatedly and reliably produce sub 50 micron probe device cantilevers . Ideally probe devices having cantilevers with lengths that are less than about 50 microns and even less than about 10 microns can be repeatedly produced across wafers. Moreover fundamental resonant frequencies greater than 700 kHz or greater than 1 MHz or even greater than 5 MHz can be realized with the present probe devices with quality factors Q less than 100 in air when the tip is interacting with the sample.

Turning to the cantilever is then patterned and etched from the front side thus yielding for example the structure show schematically in . Referring more specifically to with the tip formed the size and shape of the lever is patterned from the front side. A free or distal end of what will become lever is patterned with appropriate masking and defines an overhang or tip offset ldefined as the distance between end and an axis through the apex of the tip and generally orthogonal to the lever. Tip offset similar to the other probe device geometry discussed herein is important to the overall performance substantially characteristics of the probe device and can significantly limit the speed at which the SPM can reliably image a sample if made too large. Using the present techniques tip offset l can be maintained within at least about 5 m of the free end of the fabricated lever. Notably the tip is pyramid shaped and the outside edge of the base of the pyramid may lie substantially in line with the outer edge of the free end of the lever. As understood in the art for optimum AFM operation only the tip of the probe device interacts with the sample therefore by maintaining tip offset l. less than about 5 microns the chance that the free end of the probe device interacts with the sample during AFM operation is significantly reduced over previous techniques which typically produce probe devices with much larger and less reliably controllable overhang.

Ideally the amount of overhang is controlled during probe fabrication. Notably tip offset be reliably controlled using a stepper with a frontside alignment tool having at least 100 nm position accuracy. However such equipment is expensive. Therefore other conventional alignment techniques may be used. According to one alternative the resist used to pattern the lever may be a negative photoresist which produces a mask that is transparent when patterning the lever. In this way with tip visible the mask may be positioned so that the distal end can be accurately placed so that offset l can be carefully controlled.

An image of a cantilever produced according to the preferred embodiments is shown in in which a sub 30 micron cantilever length is produced with a tip height less than about 10 microns. illustrates the probe device of from the side. Overall by using the present techniques cantilever size and shape can be precisely and repeatedly controlled to produce high yield levers suitable for high speed AFM operation. Moreover probe devices having sub 50 micron cantilever length can be maintained even among several wafers with a standard deviation of less than about 0.5 micron.

Turning to a method of producing these probe devices is shown. Initially in Block substrate is provided. As highlighted previously the substrate is typically a silicon substrate however one advantage of the preferred embodiments over known techniques is that the wafer can be a bulk silicon wafer i.e. it does not have to be doped silicon or a costly silicon on insulator SOI wafer due to the fact that the backside silicon etch is controlled by a particular monitoring technique. Again because the method is sufficiently robust to use an undoped silicon substrate several advantages are realized. Namely front side alignment of the tip can be performed to repeatedly produce probe devices having sub 50 micron cantilevers. And high aspect ratio tips with sharp distal ends are realized given that an anisotropic etch is used to form the four sided tip structure.

Finally an additional highly reflective coating maybe employed on the backside of the silicon nitride lever after removing the optional supporting layer to provide sufficient reflectivity for light impinging on the surface of the lever during AFM operation. Since no special doping is used the method yields a smooth silicon surface upon generating the silicon membrane. This provides a smooth silicon nitride surface upon which the reflective layer can be deposited this is contrary to the highly doped silicon etch stop method which has a rough surface after etching yielding a rough surface upon which the reflective film is deposited.

Turning again to method silicon oxide and silicon nitride are then deposited on both sides of the wafer in Block . Next an array of the membrane thickness monitor windows are patterned onto the nitride oxide and etched from the front side in Block to expose the silicon in those areas. In Block the large back side alignment reveal windows are patterned onto the nitride generally opposite the front side array e.g. at about ninety degrees to the front side monitor array and then etched to expose the backside silicon of the wafer to create reveal windows aligned with the array of front side windows as described above.

At this point in Block the front or top side monitors corresponding to the patterned windows of the array are etched so that V grooves with particular depths are formed with the 111 silicon facets of the wafer exposed. In the meantime in Block the back side silicon is etched to expose the large reveal windows. Moreover because the rectangular reveal opening is aligned perpendicularly to the series of patterned V groove or tip height features on the top side sequential through holes are generated when the etching of the back side silicon reaches the bottom of the V grooves formed on the front side. By monitoring the generation of the through holes and for example the silicon etching rate as described previously the anisotropic back side etching step in Block can be stopped to control the silicon membrane thickness. As a result the monitor membrane in is formed. More specifically by observing the progress of the etch and identifying which membrane thickness monitor features i.e. V grooves are revealed the etch may be terminated. Again the fabricator can stop the etch by either directly identifying the membrane thickness monitor feature directly related to the desired tip height and or by monitoring the etch rate and determining the duration of the etch expected to yield the desired silicon membrane thickness i.e. to reveal the V groove directly related to the desired tip height . Often some combination of visually inspecting V groove break through and monitoring etch rate is used to precisely control substrate thickness. Once the etch is terminated a silicon membrane having a thickness sufficient to pattern and etch the tip is produced.

Notably concurrent with the formation of the monitor membrane which again defines tip height the support or base section of each probe device of the array of probe devices being produced is formed. Moreover the device membrane in is also formed.

Next in Block silicon nitride is deposited over the entire wafer. Then an optional support layer for example silicon dioxide may be formed on the wafer after the nitride deposition to act as an etch stop for the lever and or to provide support for the nitride but it is not necessary. Method then includes in Block patterning the tips of the probe devices. The patterned silicon is then etched in Block to form the tips as described above the corresponding tips having a pyramidal shape 4 sided and a height less than the thickness of the silicon membrane due to the fact that the anisotropic etch terminates on the 111 facets of the silicon.

Method then includes patterning and etching the silicon nitride cantilevers from the front side in Block . Once the probe devices are formed in this fashion the tips may be sharpened in Block prior to being removed from the wafer in Block . Oxidation sharpening can improve the sharpness and effective aspect ratio of the tips and thus their performance but it is not necessary. Again with a sharper tip the AFM has greater resolution improved ability to image sub nanometer features as well as an improved ability to obtain images of deeper sample features such as trenches of semiconductor devices. Independent of whether the tip is sharpened the corresponding performance characteristics resonant frequency etc. of the resultant probe devices are maintained with the tips having an apex effective tip radius less than about 200 nm and ideally less than about 10 nm. Notably in Block when the tips are patterned the location of the tips can be selected based on a front side measurement of the tip relative to a fixed end portion of the lever a region point which can be identified from the front side based on the fact that the silicon is substantially translucent. This front side positioning of where the tip is written as described previously allows precise control over formation of the cantilever geometry. If after the tip is located the tip fixed end distance is determined to be non ideal by the device fabricator the tip may be re written. Finally as described above a reflective metal coating is provided on the back side of the lever in Block to facilitate the efficient reflection of a light beam directed at the lever by the AFM optical detection scheme described in the Background. In the end probe devices having sub 50 micron levers can be repeatedly and reliably produced even across wafers.

The corresponding fundamental resonant frequencies of probe devices produced in this fashion are maintained in a range of more than 750 kHz and ideally more than 1 MHz with fundamental resonant frequencies greater than 5 MHz being possible. Moreover the corresponding quality factor Q of the cantilevers in free air is maintained at less than about 100 in free air when the tip is interacting with the sample. For the purposes of this application interacting with the sample generally refers to the situation where the probe is close enough to a sample to sense at least the long range forces from the sample. In practice this may be when the apex of the tip is within roughly 100 nm of the sample surface.

More particularly in the preferred embodiments the cantilever has a resonant frequency from roughly 700 kHz to more than 5 MHz. Depending on the desired tip sample interaction force and cantilever resonant frequency the cantilevers are typically 5 50 m long by 3 20 m wide by 1 5 m thick. For example a cantilever with a length of 10 m and a width of 5 m and a thickness of 0.5 um and a 2 um tall tip will have a resonant frequency of roughly 6 MHz and a spring constant around 20 N m. A cantilever around 35 m long with a width of 15 m and a thickness of 0.8 m has a resonant frequency of roughly 800 kHz with a spring constant around 6 N m. In one embodiment the applicants have built trapezoidal cantilevers with a cantilever length of 35 m a base width of 40 m tapering to an end width of 7 m with a 0.6 m thickness and a 3 m tall tip. These probes were coated with 5 nm of Ti and 40 nm of gold Au to form a reflective coating. These probes have a resonant frequency of 750 kHz and a spring constant of around 8 N m.

The shape of the high bandwidth cantilever probes may be rectangular triangular trapezoidal or other arbitrary shape to achieve the desired resonant frequency and spring constant. The dimension and shape can be optimized for particular combinations of resonant frequency spring constant and quality factor Q for example by calculations including formulas available in the literature and or by computational fluid dynamics and or experimentation. The quality factor Q depends not only on the viscous damping of the lever but also a squeeze film effect as the tip and cantilever come close to the sample surface. This effect can be optimized by controlling the shape of the cantilever and the height of the tip. Taller tips move the bulk of the cantilever further from the sample surface and reduce the squeeze film effect resulting in higher Q cantilevers. In some cases it is desirable to make shorter tips to reduce the Q and thus decrease the cantilever response time. Using short tips around 1 m tall the applicants have made high frequency cantilevers with Q values of less than 50 in air with the tip close to the sample surface.

Again the cantilevers are generally fabricated with a sharp tip. In that regard for most high resolution imaging applications a tip having an end radius of 

Turning to due to the fact that the silicon membrane produced according to the present invention is very thin on the order of several microns it is useful during processing to provide additional structure to support the probe devices within the wafer thus preventing the probe devices from accidentally detaching from the wafer or otherwise being damaged. Because these high speed AFM probe devices are high cost components maintaining probe device yield high is a priority to the probe device fabricator. The present invention employs etch stop V groove holding tabs which not only insure high yield by substantially insuring the probe devices remain in the wafer until the fabricator wishes to remove them but also provide a mechanical weak point to break the probe die from the wafer frame. In this fashion the yield can be maintained at greater than 90 .

With more particular reference to a mask design for a backside silicon etch to produce the holding tabs is shown. V grooves corresponding to the holding tabs are formed in the regions of the mask while the probe devices lie in mask regions of the mask. illustrates a top view image of a probe device from the front side of the wafer including a probe having a silicon nitride lever once holding tabs are formed. Holding tabs provide sufficient structure to secure probe die from being removed from the wafer.

Referring to to allow the probe devices to be readily removed yet not compromise the integrity of the holding tabs V grooves are formed at regions using a back side anisotropic etch similar to the formation of the tip height thickness monitor features described earlier. Once formed as shown in the V grooves with an inflection point in the region of the tabs allow the tabs to be selectively broken along the V groove to allow the probe devices to be removed from the substrate .

More particularly when formed with this backside etch V grooves have a depth that is significantly greater than the thickness of the silicon membrane at the locations at which the probe devices are formed. In this way holding tabs are able adequately secure the resultant probe devices to the wafer yet also provide a weak point at the V groove discontinuity to allow the probe device to be removed from the wafer . Notably though two holding tabs are shown in the figures one may only be required.

Although the best mode contemplated by the inventors of carrying out the present invention is disclosed above practice of the present invention is not limited thereto. It will be manifest that various additions modifications and rearrangements of the features of the present invention may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the underlying inventive concept.

