---

title: Apparatus for inserting objects into a filter component of a smoking article, and associated method
abstract: An apparatus for manufacturing a rod member for a cigarette filter element, is provided. Each rod member defines a longitudinal axis and includes a generally longitudinally-extending filter material and a plurality of objects disposed therein along the longitudinal axis. Such an apparatus comprises a rod-forming unit configured to form a continuous supply of a filter material into a continuous cylindrical rod member. An object insertion unit is configured to introduce a plurality of objects into engagement with the rod member. A rod-dividing unit is configured to divide the rod member into a plurality of rod portions such that each rod portion includes a plurality of the objects. Associated method are also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07972254&OS=07972254&RS=07972254
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 07972254
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070611
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate to apparatuses and methods for manufacturing filter rods and smoking articles incorporating such filter rods and more particularly to apparatuses and methods for inserting multiple objects into a filter rod for a smoking article such as a cigarette.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

The sensory attributes of cigarette smoke can be enhanced by applying additives to tobacco and or by otherwise incorporating flavoring materials into various components of a cigarette. See Leffingwell et al. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . For example one type of tobacco flavoring additive is menthol. See Borschke 19 p. 47 70 1993. Various proposed methods for modifying the sensory attributes of cigarettes have involved suggestion that filter elements may be used as vehicles for adding flavor to the mainstream smoke of those cigarettes. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. proposes the placement of adsorbent and flavor releasing materials in a cigarette filter. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2002 0020420 to Xue et al. proposes the placement of fibers containing small particle size adsorbents absorbents in the filter. U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. propose the placement of a flavor containing pellet in a cigarette filter. Other representative types of cigarette filters incorporating flavoring agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 972 335 to Tiggelbeck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 082 098 to Owens Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 729 391 to Woods et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al.

Cigarettes having adjustable filter elements that allow smokers to select the level of flavor that is available for transfer into mainstream smoke have been proposed. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 677 995 to Kallianos et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 848 375 to Patron et al. Some proposed cigarettes may be manipulated reportedly for the purpose of providing components of their filter elements with the propensity to modify the nature or character of mainstream smoke. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 297 038 to Homburger U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 557 to Karalus U.S. Pat. No. 3 420 242 to Boukar U.S. Pat. No. 3 508 558 to Seyburn U.S. Pat. No. 3 513 859 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 665 to Kindgard U.S. Pat. No. 3 669 128 to Cohen and U.S. Pat. No. 4 126 141 to Grossman.

Some proposed cigarettes have a hollow object positioned in their filter element and the contents of that object is reportedly released into the filter element upon rupture of the object in the attempt to alter the nature or character of the mainstream smoke passing through the filter element. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 339 558 to Waterbury U.S. Pat. No. 3 366 121 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 390 686 to Irby Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 428 049 to Leake U.S. Pat. No. 3 547 130 to Harlow et al U.S. Pat. No. 3 575 1809 to Carty U.S. Pat. No. 3 602 231 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 625 228 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 635 226 to Horsewell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 991 773 to Walker and U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al and 2005 0070409 to Deal US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2007 0095357 to Besso et al. 20070012327 to Karles et al. 2006 0174901 to Karles et al. 2006 0144412 to Mishra et al. 2006 0112964 to Jupe et al. and PCT WO 03 009711 to Kim and WO 2007 060543 to Besso et al. Some proposed cigarettes may also have a capsule positioned in the filter element and the contents of that capsule reportedly released into the filter element upon rupture of the capsule in order to deodorize the filter element after the cigarette is extinguished. See for example US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2003 0098033 to MacAdam et al.

Commercially marketed Rivage brand cigarettes have included a filter possessing a cylindrical plastic container containing water or a liquid flavor solution. Cigarettes representative of the Rivage brand cigarettes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 865 056 to Tamaoki et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 331 981 to Tamaoki et al. both of which are assigned to Japan Tobacco Inc. The cylindrical casing within the filter reportedly may be deformed upon the application of external force and a thin wall portion of the casing is consequently broken so as to permit release of the liquid within the casing into an adjacent portion of that filter.

A cigarette holder has been available under the brand name Aquafilter. Cigarette holders representative of the Aquafilter brand product are described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 797 644 to Shaw U.S. Pat. No. 4 003 387 to Goldstein and U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 153 to Kaye assigned to Aquafilter Corporation. Those patents propose a disposable cigarette holder into which the mouth end of a cigarette is inserted. Smoke from the cigarette that is drawn through the holder reportedly passes through filter material impregnated with water. A disposable filter adapted to be attachable to the mouth end of a cigarette has been proposed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 724 997 to Smith et al. A flavor containing capsule contained within the disposable filter reportedly may be squeezed in order to release the flavor within the capsule.

Some smokers might desire a cigarette that is capable of providing in some instances selectively a variety of different flavors depending upon the smoker s immediate desire. The flavor of such a cigarette might be selected based on the smoker s desire for a particular flavor at that time or a desire to change flavors during the smoking experience. For example changing flavors during the smoking experience may enable a smoker to end the cigarette with a breath freshening flavor such as menthol or spearmint. Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of providing distinctive different pleasurable sensory experiences for a smoker.

Some smokers might also desire a cigarette that is capable of releasing a deodorizing agent upon completion of a smoking experience. Such agents may be used to ensure that the remaining portion of a smoked cigarette yields a pleasant aroma after the smoker has finished smoking that cigarette. Accordingly it is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of releasing a deodorizing agent as desired by the smoker.

Some smokers might desire a cigarette that is capable of moistening cooling or otherwise modifying the nature or character of the mainstream smoke generated by that cigarette. Because certain agents that can be used to interact with smoke are volatile and have the propensity to evaporate over time the effects of those agents upon the behavior of those cigarettes may require introduction of those agents near commencement of the smoking experience. Accordingly is desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of moistening smoothing or cooling the smoke delivered to a smoker for that smoker.

It would be highly desirable to provide a smoker with the ability to enhance a sensory aspect of his her smoking experience and the extent or magnitude of that sensory experience such as can be accomplished by allowing the smoker to purposefully select a cigarette having certain characteristics or behaviors and in some instances by allowing the smoker to determine the magnitude or extent of such characteristics or behaviors that the cigarette exhibits and or the source thereof. That is it would be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing components that can be employed so as to allow the smoker to select a cigarette based on an indicated character or nature and in some instances allow the smoker to control whether selectively or not the nature or character of the mainstream smoke produced by that cigarette and the source from which it is obtained. In particular it would be desirable to provide a cigarette that is capable of enhancing the sensory attributes and the extent or magnitude of such attributes of the mainstream smoke e.g. by flavoring that smoke . More particularly it would be desirable to provide the means to manufacture such cigarettes incorporating such flavor agents and sources and the like in a rapid highly automated fashion. It also would be desirable to provide improved means to incorporate smoke altering solid objects such as flavor pellets flavor capsules flavored or non flavored strands exchange resin beads adsorbent absorbent particles or possibly various combinations thereof into cigarette filters in a rapid highly automated fashion.

In light of the above desirable attributes it would also be desirable to provide a smoker with one or more visual cues of the sensory enhancements i.e. characteristic behavior the magnitudes thereof and or combinations thereof present in a particular cigarette so as to be for example informative to the smoker in selecting a cigarette or instructive to the smoker as to accessing the available sensory enhancements.

The present invention relates to an apparatus and process for providing filter rods for use in the manufacture of smoking articles wherein each rod has one or more objects e.g. rupturable capsules pellets strands or combinations thereof disposed along its length such that when the rod is subdivided into rod portions each rod portion includes at least one and preferably a plurality of such objects. The apparatus incorporates equipment for supplying a continuous supply of filter material e.g. a filter tow processing unit adapted to supply filter tow to a continuous rod forming unit . A representative apparatus may also include for example a hopper and rotating wheel arrangement such as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. and incorporated herein by reference for supplying the objects to the filter material. In a further example the apparatus may include for example a tongue or tongue portion configured to gather the supply of filter material into a continuous rod. Such a tongue may also include for instance a tube extending into the filter material passing through the tongue wherein the tube is configured to allow the objects singularly or otherwise serially engaged to pass therethrough into the filter material as the continuous rod is formed. In another example the objects may be housed within a tubular member and the apparatus may include for instance an object insertion unit for inserting the tubular member having the objects therein into the filter material. In still another example the objects may be serially attached or otherwise serially engaged with each other so as to form a continuous chain of objects wherein the object insertion unit would be configured to place the continuous chain of objects into the filter material.

In still other instances the objects may be attached or otherwise engaged with an elongate member wherein the elongate member may comprise for example a strand. The objects are thus strung together by the strand. In such instances the object insertion unit is particularly configured to place or otherwise insert the strand and objects into the filter material. Further the objects may be separate from the elongate member strand wherein the object insertion unit is configured to place or otherwise insert the strand and objects not engaged with each other into the filter material. That is multiple objects i.e. capsules pellets and or strands or at least one of a capsule pellet or strand in combination with at least one other of the capsule pellet or strand is inserted into the filter material by the object insertion unit. One arrangement for inserting a strand into the filter material is disclosed for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 461 941 to Nelson et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. In another example the elongate member may also be configured to extend laterally i.e. as a two dimensional sheet . In such an instance the objects may be attached or otherwise engaged with the elongate member. In engaging the elongate member with the filter material the apparatus may include for example a wrapping device configured to wrap the elongate member about the objects i.e. so as to form a tubular member wherein the object insertion unit is configured to place the objects wrapped by the elongate member into the filter material. In yet another example the apparatus may include a garniture device configured to wrap the elongate member having the objects attached thereto about the filter material such that the elongate member forms a wrap encompassing the filter material and the objects.

As a result the filter material is formed into a continuous rod having the objects positioned within that rod and along the longitudinal axis thereof. The continuous rod then is subdivided at predetermined intervals so as to form a plurality of filter rods or rod portions such that each rod portion includes at least one or preferably a plurality of the objects therein. In instances of the objects comprising for example a capsule and or a pellet and also including a strand the capsules and or pellets may be disposed at predetermined positions within and along the filter rod or filter element while the strand if any extends through the filter rod or filter element. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention are particularly configured to provide the objects and place the same within the filter material with the objects being sufficiently proximal such that a desired at least one object and preferably a plurality of objects per rod portion is obtained when the continuous rod is subdivided.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Indeed these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Cigarette rods are manufactured using a cigarette making machine such as a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 781 203 to La Hue U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0145866 to Hartman 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and 2005 0076929 to Fitzgerald et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. For example descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction conveyor systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 291 713 to Frank U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The automated cigarette making machines of the type set forth herein provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths.

Filtered cigarettes incorporating filter elements provided from filter rods that are produced in accordance with the present invention can be manufactured using traditional types of cigarette making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0103355 to Holmes and 2005 1094014 to Read Jr. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture.

Cigarette filter rods that are produced in accordance with the present invention can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod produced in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany.

Various types of cigarette components including tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials blend packing densities types of paper wrapping materials for tobacco rods types of tipping materials and levels of air dilution can be employed. See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics that are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 530 to Kraker U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0016556 to Ashcraft et al. and 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 375 700 filed Mar. 14 2006 to Thomas et al. and Ser. No. 11 408 625 filed Apr. 21 2006 to Oglesby each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Filter rods can be manufactured pursuant to embodiments of the present invention using a rod making apparatus and an exemplary rod making apparatus includes a rod forming unit. Representative rod forming units are available as KDF 2 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and as Polaris ITM Filter Maker from International Tobacco Machinery. Filter material such as cellulose acetate filamentary tow typically is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit. For example filter tow can be bloomed using bussel jet methodologies or threaded roll methodologies. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. and as Candor ITM Tow Processor from International Tobacco Machinery. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art can be employed. Other types of filter materials such as gathered paper nonwoven polypropylene web or gathered strands of shredded web can be provided using the types of materials equipment and techniques set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Bynre U.S. Pat. No. 4 850 301 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 664 to Siems et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al.

Representative types of filter rods incorporating objects and representative types of cigarettes possessing filter elements incorporating objects such as flavor containing capsules or pellets can possess the types of components format and configuration and can be manufactured using the types of techniques and equipment set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0070409 A1 to Deal 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 461 941 to Nelson et al. which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The filter material can vary and can be any material of the type that can be employed for providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefins such as polypropylene or the like. One highly preferred filter material that can provide a suitable filter rod is cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al.

Filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit such as a commercially available E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art may similarly be used. Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow in traditional amounts using known techniques. Other suitable materials for construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture.

The continuous length of filter material is pulled through a block by the action of the rod forming unit and the objects are inserted along the length of and within the web of filter material. However the objects may also be introduced into the filter material at other points in the process as disclosed further herein and this exemplary embodiment is not intended to be limiting in that regard. The filter material is further directed into a gathering region of the rod forming unit . The gathering region can have a tongue and horn configuration a gathering funnel configuration stuffer or transport jet configuration or other suitable type of gathering means. The tongue provides for further gathering compaction conversion or formation of the cylindrical composite from block into an essentially cylindrical i.e. rod like shape whereby the continuously extending strands or filaments of the filter material extend essentially along the longitudinal axis of the cylinder so formed. In some instances the objects may also be placed into the filter material in the gathering region as appropriate.

The filter material which has been compressed into a cylindrical composite is received further into the rod forming unit . The cylindrical composite is fed into wrapping mechanism which includes endless garniture conveyer belt or other garniture means. The garniture conveyer belt is continuously and longitudinally advanced using advancing mechanism such as a ribbon wheel or cooperating drum so as to transport the cylindrical composite through wrapping mechanism . The wrapping mechanism provides a strip of wrapping material e.g. non porous paper plug wrap to the outer surface of the cylindrical composite in order to produce continuous wrapped rod . In some instances the objects may also be engaged with the filter material in the wrapping or garniture region as appropriate. For example the elongate member as otherwise disclosed herein may be in the form of a wrapping material having the objects attached thereto or otherwise engaged therewith. In some instances the elongate member may also include for example microcapsules see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 537 812 to Fagg incorporated herein by reference instead of or in addition to the objects wherein the elongate member wrapping material is wrapped about the filter material such that the objects microcapsules are applied thereto.

Generally the strip or web of wrapping material is provided from rotatable bobbin . The wrapping material is drawn from the bobbin is trained over a series of guide rollers passes under block and enters the wrapping mechanism of the rod forming unit. The endless garniture conveyer belt transports both the strip of wrapping material and the cylindrical composite in a longitudinally extending manner through the wrapping mechanism while draping or enveloping the wrapping material about the cylindrical composite.

The seam formed by an overlapping marginal portion of wrapping material has adhesive e.g. hot melt adhesive applied thereto at applicator region in order that the wrapping material can form a tubular container for the filter material. Alternatively the hot melt adhesive may be applied directly upstream of the wrapping material s entry into the garniture of the wrapping mechanism or block as the case may be. The adhesive can be cooled using chill bar in order to cause rapid setting of the adhesive. It is understood that various other sealing means and other types of adhesives can be employed in providing the continuous wrapped rod.

The continuous wrapped rod passes from the sealing means and is subdivided e.g. severed at regular intervals at the desired predetermined length using cutting assembly which includes as a rotary cutter a highly sharpened knife or other suitable rod cutting or subdividing means. It is particularly desirable that the cutting assembly does not flatten or otherwise adversely affect the shape of the rod. The rate at which the cutting assembly severs the continuous rod at the desired points is controlled via an adjustable mechanical gear train not shown or other suitable means. The rate at which the objects are inserted into the continuous web of filter material is in a direct relationship to the speed of operation of the rod making machine. The object insertion unit can be geared in a direct drive relationship to the drive assembly of the rod making apparatus. Alternatively the object insertion unit can have a direct drive motor synchronized with the drive assembly of the rod forming unit and feedback controlled by coupling with the object inspection means to adjust the insertion unit drive assembly should the object insertion location shift out of position. In light of the relationship of the rate of object insertion and the rod making machine embodiments of the present invention are also directed to increasing the production rate of the rod making machine without adversely affecting the object placement within the filter material.

In one example the insertion unit includes a rotatable insertion member having the shape of a wheel which may be positioned so as to rotate in a vertical plane. The insertion unit also includes a hopper assembly and or other transfer means for feeding or otherwise providing transfer of objects such as for example capsules and or pellets to insertion wheel . As the insertion wheel rotates in a clock wise fashion individual objects not shown held within pocket not shown on the peripheral face of the wheel are brought into contact with the filter material within the block where the objects are ejected from the pockets into the gathered filter material . Details of such an object insertion arrangement are further detailed for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. though embodiments of the present invention as disclosed herein implement a relatively closer spacing of the objects along the length of the filter rod or rod portion . That is the insertion wheel may be configured so as to place the objects in closer proximity to each other or immediately adjacent to each other. For example the pockets may be more closely spaced or the insertion wheel configured in a different manner so as to for instance receive and deliver the objects in a substantially consistent and continuous feed. In still another example the objects may be serially attached or otherwise engaged so as to be placed in the filter material as a continuous chain see e.g. . That is the objects may be directly joined to each other using for example an adhesive or by binding to each other in the presence of heat. The hopper assembly would thus be replaced by other transfer means for feeding or otherwise providing the continuous chain of objects to insertion wheel . The continuous chain of objects would be placed within the filter material using an appropriately modified insertion wheel or other suitable insertion device. For instance the continuous chain of objects could be stored on a bobbin spool or other appropriate storage and dispensing device in proximity to the insertion wheel or other suitable insertion device for inserting the continuous chain into the filter material. Having incorporated U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. by reference the details and operation of the hopper assembly insertion wheel are not otherwise described in detail herein but instead are referenced to that publication.

In controlling this process a typical control system includes control hardware and software. An exemplary control system can incorporate a Siemens 315 2DP Processor a Siemens FM352 5 Booleen Processor and a 16 input bit 16 output bit module. Such a system can utilize a system display such as a Siemens MP370. A typical rod making unit possesses internal controls whereby for a rod of desired length the speed of the knife of the severing unit is timed relative to the speed of continuous rod formation. A first encoder by way of connection with the drive belt of the rod making unit and with the control unit of the insertion unit provides reference of the knife position of the cutting assembly relative to the wheel position of the insertion unit. Thus the first encoder provides a means for allowing control of the speed of rotation of the wheel of the insertion unit relative to the speed at which continuous web of filter tow passes through the rod making unit. An exemplary first encoder is available as Heidenhain Absolute 2048.

An inspection detection system is located near the cutting assembly. The detection system such as an infrared detection system relays information regarding the detection of an object within the filter rod to the control system . Typically the objects within the filter rod are of a contrasting shade or color to be detected by visual detection sensors in the detection system . In other instances the inspection detection system may be appropriately modified so as to be capable of detecting inspecting various objects. For example the inspection detection system may be configured to detect inspect a capsule a pellet and strand or any multiples or combinations thereof. Such an inspection detection system is disclosed for example in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US 2007 0068540 A1 to Thomas et al. previously incorporated by reference.

The rod making apparatus optionally can be equipped with a system adapted to provide information associated with rod production and operation event analysis. For example a rod making apparatus such as a commercially available KDF 2 type of unit can be adapted so as to be equipped with a central processing unit. A representative central processing unit is available as a Siemens 314 C processor. The central processing unit is equipped with input and output modules. As such the operation of the rod making unit can be monitored and data so generated can be transferred to the central processing unit. In addition data received by the central processing unit can be presented on a video touch screen or retrieved by a high level operating system e.g. via an Ethernet . Remote unit such as Siemens IM 153 equipped with inputs outputs and a counter module available as Siemens FM350 2 installed in sending unit collects data provided to the central processing unit using a bus system e.g. Profibus . Depending upon information gathered data that can be generated may relate to number of rods manufactured during a particular time frame machine operating speed manufacturing efficiency number of stops filters sent to a making machine and stoppage reasons.

Referring to the continuous web of filter material is fed into guide or block shown as partially cut away . The block receives the wide band of filter material and gradually forms the web into a composite which generally resembles a cylindrical composite. The plow region of the ledger housing separates or spreads the filter material such that the objects are positioned or placed from the peripheral face of the wheel into the desired locations within the web of filter material and along the longitudinal axis thereof. When the tow reaches the endmost portion of the plow the motion of the tow acts to close itself into a cylindrical composite which encloses surrounds or contains the objects along the length of and within the continuous web. A suitable plow preferably extends to a maximum depth of about 6 mm to about 6.5 mm into the web of filter material. The insertion unit can be raised or lowered in order that the objects be inserted at the desired depth within the filter material. In such a manner a series of objects is positioned in the web of filter material along the length of and within the cylindrical composite that exits the block and enters the tongue or other suitable gathering means.

Referring to the guide or block the top portion of which is shown as partially cut away has a relatively wide opening at one end in order that the filter material can be fed therein. The shape of the hollow inner portion of the block is such that the filter material is formed into a composite which more generally resembles a cylinder. In particular the inner portion of the block is a hollow region or cavity in order that the filter material can be passed therethrough. The block has a longitudinally extending slot along the top portion thereof in order to allow the rotating wheel and ledger housing not shown to extend into the web of filter material and to insert the objects therein. In a suitable situation the plow not shown extends into the slot so as to extend about 0.3 mm to about 0.4 mm from the extreme bottom portion of the hollow inner portion of the block. The resulting cylindrical composite is received to further downstream processing regions of the rod forming unit. Similar types of blocks are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al.

One skilled in the art will also appreciate that the rod making apparatus may optionally include more than one such block and insertion wheel assembly where such a plurality of assemblies may be for example disposed in series. In other instances a single block may be configured with more than one such insertion wheel . For example where each insertion wheel has a diameter of between about 135 mm and about 140 mm a pair of insertion wheels may be mounted with respect to a single block with about 150 mm center to center spacing. In instances of more than one object insertion device i.e. more than one block insertion wheel assembly or more than one insertion wheel per single block the rod making apparatus may be configured to place a mixed plurality of objects i.e. various combinations of objects such as for example capsules pellets or strands into the filter material with each of the object insertion devices handling a different type of object. In continuation of the example the plurality of object insertion devices may be configured to deposit into the filter material for instance a combination of various objects such as a capsule and a pellet see e.g. a combination of a capsule and a strand A see e.g. a combination of a pellet and a strand A see e.g. or a combination of all three objects such as a capsule pellet and strand A see e.g. . In some instances the block insertion wheel assemblies multiple assemblies or the insertion wheels single block multiple insertion wheels may also be modularly configured or otherwise optional such that the number of object insertion devices may be varied as necessary or desirable. In order to accomplish the desired configuration of object insertion the plurality of object insertion devices may be coordinated and or synchronized in various manners such as by timing sensing or any other suitable scheme.

In an alternative embodiment the objects may be placed in the filter material as the filter material is pulled through a gathering region of the rod forming unit wherein the gathering region includes for example a tongue and horn configuration. One skilled in the art will appreciate however that the gathering region may include the tongue and horn arrangement a gathering funnel configuration a stuffer or transport jet configuration or other suitable types of gathering mechanisms or combinations thereof wherein the object placement in the filter material may be accomplished through any of the gathering mechanisms. In such an embodiment the tongue provides for further gathering compaction conversion or formation of a cylindrical composite of filter material into an essentially cylindrical i.e. rod like shape whereby the continuously extending strands or filaments of the filter material extend essentially along the longitudinal axis of the cylinder so formed.

As disclosed for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 461 941 to Nelson et al. the tongue may be configured to insert a longitudinally extending strand into the filter material. In such instances the objects may be attached to or otherwise engaged with the strand or other elongate member wherein such an elongate member may comprise for instance a strip of material having a laterally extending dimension. In other instances the objects may be housed for example within an elongate member comprising a tube . In still other instances the elongate member may comprise for instance a strip of material having a larger laterally extending dimension with the objects attached to or otherwise engaged therewith wherein the strip of material is laterally wrapped about the objects using a wrapping device not shown prior to insertion of the wrapped objects into the filter material. In any such instances the objects may be attached to or otherwise engaged with the elongate member using an adhesive or other suitable material. The elongate member having the objects attached to or otherwise engaged therewith may be formed and stored on e.g. wrapped about a bobbin or other suitable spool member and provided for placement within the filter material as appropriate.

In other configurations the elongate member may be stored on a bobbin or other spool member and the objects brought into engagement therewith as the elongate member is fed from the spool member prior to the elongate member with attached objects being placed within the filter material. In still other configurations the elongate member whether having objects engaged therewith or not may be stored on a bobbin or other spool member and the elongate member whether having objects engaged therewith or not fed from the spool member and placed within the filter material as the filter material is pulled through the gathering region see e.g. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 461 941 to Nelson et al. previously incorporated herein by reference or prior to or upstream of the filter material being pulled through the gathering region see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne et al. previously incorporated herein by reference wherein the objects can be placed within the filter material upstream of downstream of i.e. the elongate member may be threaded into the filter material as the filter material is pulled through a gathering block upstream of the object insertion process or commensurately with the elongate member. The elongate member whether having objects engaged therewith or not may be stored on a bobbin or other spool member and fed from the spool member using a supply or unwinding unit such as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. or U.S. Pat. No. 5 709 352 to Rogers et al. each being incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

In some instances the objects attached to or otherwise engaged with the elongate member may be overcoated i.e. with shellac or other suitable coating substance or combinations thereof to insulate them from moisture i.e. thereby eliminating the need for gellan and allowing the use of for example gelatin or alginate for forming the objects . Introduction of the plurality of objects into the filter material using such configurations may also allow the insertion rate of such objects to be increased since precise handling and placement thereof within the filter material may be less important. In any instance the filter rods can also be manufactured in such a manner so as to be used as rods for providing flavor for the types of articles set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 6 041 790 to Smith et al. as an alternative to providing filter elements for tobacco rods.

Referring to there is shown a portion of a rod making unit such as a portion of a rod forming unit available as KDF 2 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. The rod forming unit is equipped with a strand insertion unit which is suitably adapted to provide for placement of continuous strand of material or elongate member such as a filament material with or without the objects attached thereto within a continuous length of filter material not shown . The representative rod making unit is arranged so that the filter material is fed into the tongue from a stuffer jet device .

The strand insertion unit also possesses a spool bobbin or other mechanism for providing a continuous supply of elongate member with or without attached objects which may be directed about a series of guides before being directed through the insertion tube and into the filter material. The spool can be located and supported on a spool support base positioned on and most preferably secured to an appropriate region the frame region of the rod forming unit . For example the hollow core of the spool can be supported on an upwardly extending axle type member. Alternatively for an embodiment not shown the spool can be positioned on a separate stand or base disposed or otherwise mounted adjacent to the rod forming unit . As such the spool can be maintained securely in position and the elongate member alone or with attached objects can be readily removed therefrom during operation of the rod making unit. Similarly the various optional guides can be located and supported on a guide support base positioned on and most preferably secured to an appropriate region the frame region of the rod forming unit . However other types or configurations of guide mechanisms numbers of guides and pathways for the elongate member having attached objects can be employed and alternative designs will be apparent to those skilled in the art of continuous supply and transport of a strand of a filament material such as thread whether or not having objects attached thereto. In any instance it is preferable that the guide located nearest the strand insertion tube be adjustable e.g. up down back forth side to side in order that the elongate member with or without attached objects can be efficiently and effectively directed into the strand insertion tube. As such the elongate member with or without attached objects can be removed from the spool at an appropriate rate and effectively guided through the insertion tube and introduced into the filter material therethrough during operation of the rod making unit. As the filter material and strand pass downstream through the rod forming unit a continuous filter rod not shown is formed.

In instances where the elongate member comprises a strand the material from which the strand is manufactured can vary. Exemplary strands filament materials can be manufactured from woven natural fiber e.g. cotton woven synthetic fiber e.g. nylon polyester or cellulose acetate extruded material e.g. polyethylene or the like. Preferred strand materials are woven materials such as those that can be characterized as string thread or yarn. The strand material can act as a carrier for a material that can be used to alter the behavior of the mainstream smoke that passes through a filter element incorporating that strand e.g. the strand can act as a carrier for a smoke modifying agent such as a flavoring agent . Alternatively the strand material when incorporated into the filter rod does not to any appreciable degree act as a carrier for a smoke modifying agent i.e. the strand material as provided from the spool is virtually devoid of added flavoring agent and does not act as a smoke modifying agent . If desired the strand material optionally can be removed from its spool passed through a flavoring agent applicator system e.g. passed through a bath of flavoring agent and liquid carrier or sprayed with a mist of flavoring agent and liquid carrier prior to being introduced into the filter material cylindrical composite. In other instances the strand material can be configured to absorb or wick a flavoring agent from surrounding material such as the filter material once the strand is introduced into the filter material cylindrical composite. The strand material also possesses appropriate physical properties such as pliability tensile strength and the like. Exemplary thread is available from Service Thread Manufacturing Co. as Product Number M 04 01 COTN WHT OENF 4.25 . Such a type of thread can be treated with dyes or other coloring agents of the desired type in order to provide a thread of the desired color.

The size of the strand may vary with the diameter thereof being up to about 2.5 mm or up to about 3 mm and sometimes up to about 4 mm. However due to for example limitations in the size diameter of the filter rod or filter element larger diameter strands may in some instances require smaller dimensions of other objects i.e. capsules and or pellets such that the other objects can be inserted into the filter material with the strand while providing the desired dimensions of the filter rod or filter element. In instances where the strands or threads are finer or smaller in dimension the rod forming unit may be configured to insert at least one such strand i.e. by using a single strand insertion unit and preferably a plurality of strands i.e. by using one or more strand insertion units into the filter material. That is one or more individual strands may be inserted into the filter material in addition to at least one other object such as a capsule or a pellet. In instances of the other objects comprising for example a capsule and or a pellet and the filter rod also including a strand see e.g. the capsules and or pellets may be disposed at predetermined positions within and along the filter rod or filter element while the strand if any extends through the filter rod or filter element. Since the one or more strands extend to the mouth end of the cigarette the visible end s of the strand s may in some instances be configured to provide a message or other visual cue or indicia to the smoker. That is for example the number of visible ends of strands may correlate to the number of other objects such as capsules and or pellets included in the filter rod. In other instances the color or size of the strands may indicate for example the number of capsules versus the number of pellets or the flavor s provided by the other objects i.e. capsules and or pellets in the filter rod or filter element. One skilled in the art will thus appreciate that the end s of the strand s may be configured to serve many purposes such as for example aesthetic appeal to indicate the flavor provided by the object to indicate the flavor provided by the strand or to provide a cue for the smoker i.e. that a capsule is present in the filter rod and must be ruptured in order to provide the indicated flavor or any combinations thereof.

The strand insertion unit may possess an electronic sensing or monitoring system that is designed to ensure that elongate member with or without attached objects is being provided from the spool to desired locations downstream in the filter making system. A representative monitoring system is provided by mounting a fiber optic sensor head e.g. a sensor head available as FU 68 from Keyence Corporation near a roll guide . As such the sensor head can sense rotational movement of the roll guide as the elongate member that is wrapped around that roll guide provides rotation of that roll guide during movement of that elongate member. Typically a pin or other appropriate timing mark located on a rotational portion of the roll guide can provide suitable information for detection by a stationary mounted sensor head. The sensor head can be connected e.g. using appropriate wiring to a photosensor not shown that can be in turn connected to a programmable logic controller PLC not shown . The PLC can be in turn connected to the electronic control system of the rod making unit. A representative photosensor is available as FS 2 60 from Keyence Corporation and a representative PLC is available as KV 10R from Keyence Corporation. The resulting system can be appropriately programmed so that when the rotational movement of the roll guide ceases e.g. as a result of the continuous elongate member being broken or the spool being empty the monitoring system can sense that change in the operation of strand insertion unit and the operation of the rod making unit can be shut down. As such manufacture of filter rods possessing the objects capsules pellets strands therein can be assured.

As disclosed for example in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 461 941 to Nelson et al. previously incorporated herein by reference the tongue may comprise a two piece tongue available as Part No. 132DF3002 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG or a single piece tongue such as Part No. 132DF3003F from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG either of which may be implemented as appropriate. As disclosed the positioning of an insertion tube within the tongue within the horizontal plane provides placement of the elongate member other objects at a desired longitudinal location within the filter material passing through the tongue and as such placement of the opening in the top face of the tongue for the insertion tube can be selected e.g. so as to be within the center longitudinal region of the filter material gathered composite from a horizontal perspective . In addition positioning of the tube can be readily controlled in a vertical manner by adjustment of the positioning screws e.g. so as to provide the elongate member other objects in the center region of the filter material gathered composite or laterally with respect to the cross section of the filter material gathered composite from a vertical perspective . In general the tongue possesses i a first entrance or first receiving port at one end for receiving the filter material and an exit or discharge port at the other end for discharge of a filter material gathered composite incorporating generally longitudinally extending filter material and generally longitudinally extending continuous elongate member with or without attached objects and ii a second entrance or second receiving port physically separate from the first entrance and located toward the exit of the tongue for introducing the elongate member other objects into the filter material.

The insertion tube can vary. Typically the insertion tube is manufactured from a metallic material such as stainless steel or the like. Typically the length of the insertion tube ranges from about 40 to about 60 mm although longer or shorter insertion tube designs can be employed. Typically a representative insertion tube has a generally circular cross section and is designed for insertion of an elongate member with or without attached objects into a filter material. The cross sectional shape of the outer portion of the tube and or of the inner passageway of the tube can be modified if desired. For example the outer portion of the tube can be fashioned so as to possess a plow like shape that is a narrower width at its upstream face and a wider width at its downstream face. The inner passageway of the tube can be modified for example to possess an oval cross sectional shape or any other suitable shape about the extreme downstream end of the insertion tube .

The tube is configured so as to define a path of travel of the elongate member other objects. That is the tongue provides a path of travel of the filter material gathered composite while the tube may be configured so as to define passage of travel of the elongate member and or other objects into the gathered composite by extending into the path of travel of the gathered composite. That is the elongate member is discharged from the tube according to the angle of orientation thereof i.e. the strand is vertically discharged into the gathered composite from a vertically oriented tube . Once discharged from the tube the elongate member and or other objects engages the gathered composite at the selected lateral disposition therein and is thus continuously fed into and travels downstream with the longitudinally proceeding gathered composite. The disposition of the tube in the tongue relative to vertical can be altered by loosening the attachment screws or other fastening mechanism adjusting the insertion tube in the vertical plane e.g. up and down by hand and tightening the screws or otherwise providing secure positioning of the insertion tube . In some instances the tube may also be adjustable with respect to the angle thereof with respect to the path of travel of the filter material gathered composite. That is the tube may be adjustable to form an acute angle i.e. greater than 0 and less than 90 with respect to the path of travel of the filter material gathered composite i.e. inclined upstream or inclined downstream . In some instances in order to facilitate the introduction of the elongate member objects into the gathered composite the extreme downstream end of the insertion tube may be configured to be at least one of arcuately shaped smooth beaded rounded radiused chamfered plow shaped and combination thereof so as to facilitate transition of the orientation of the elongate member other objects from the discharge orientation upon discharge from the tube to the orientation of the path of travel of the gathered composite. In other optional instances the insertion tube may be configured such that the elongate member with or without attached objects is introduced into the gather composite for example at a slightly slower rate than the advancement rate of the gathered composite along its path of travels where in such instances the difference in rates may provide for example a tension in the elongate member as it is introduced into the gathered composite.

In a preferred embodiment the tongue possesses a first entrance at one end for filter material and an exit at the other end for a filter material gathered composite incorporating the generally longitudinally extending filter material and the generally longitudinally extending continuous elongate member and or other objects. The entrance and exit each allow for a path of travel of the filter material in a generally horizontal plane. The second entrance physically separate from the first entrance and located toward the exit of the tongue is adapted for introduction of the elongate member other objects into the filter material. The second entrance provides for a path of travel of the elongate member other objects into the filter material in and from a generally vertical plane. A third entrance physically separate from both the first and second entrances and located between the first and second entrances is adapted to in some instances extend into the path of travel of the filter material and act as a type of plow or mechanism for separating or creating a channel in the filter material gathered composite. In such an embodiment the second and third entrances of the tongue preferably have the form of openings through the upper face. In some instances the tongue or other components within the gathering region may optionally include a flavor fluid injection device operably engaged therewith so as to inject a flavored fluid into the filter material and or onto the one or more strands inserted therein wherein such a flavor injection device is disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

Preferred types of objects and the dimensions thereof are set forth below. The objects can vary. Each object may possess a generally spherical shape and most preferably is highly spherical in nature. Some objects can be generally solid in nature. Some objects can be composed of a plastic material and each can be for example a solid spherical bead composed of a mixture of polyethylene and flavor or a spherical bead having the form of exchange resin or gel. Some objects can be composed of an inorganic material and can be for example a spherical alumina bead. The objects also can each have the form of a spherical bead composed of a carbonaceous material. The objects also can each have the form of a hollow sphere. Typical hollow objects are liquid containing objects such as breakable capsules which are highly spherical are uniform in size and weight have surface properties that allow such objects to be processed efficiently and effectively using automated filter making equipment and are highly uniform in composition. Some objects have diameters of about 3 mm to about 4 mm preferably about 3.5 mm and the components of the preferred filter rod making equipment of the present invention are suitably adapted or designed to efficiently and effectively produce filter rods incorporating those types of objects. Preferred hollow objects have sufficient physical integrity to not rupture during handling and insertion thereof into the filter material.

Other types of objects beads capsules and capsule components that can be employed for the production of filter rods using the foregoing filter rod manufacturing techniques and equipment are of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 685 521 to Dock U.S. Pat. No. 3 916 914 to Brooks et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 889 144 to Tateno et al. US Pat. Appl. Pub. No. 2003 0098033 to MacAdam et al. and 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 03 009711 to Kim which are incorporated herein by reference. Tobacco products can incorporate those types of components set forth in US Patent Publication Nos. 2006 0272663 to Dube et al. 2006 01330961 to Luan et al. 2006 0144412 to Mishra et al. 2007 0012327 to Karles et al. and 2007 0068540 to Thomas et al. PCT WO 2006 136197 PCT WO 2006 136199 PCT WO 2007 010407 PCT WO 2007 060543 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 115 085 to Deal as well as within filtered cigarettes that have been marketed under the tradename Camel Lights with Menthol Boost by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. Exemplary pelletized carrier materials and flavor packages are of the type employed in cigarettes that have been marketed commercially in the USA. For example flavor carrying pellets have been incorporated into cigarette filters employed on Camel brand cigarettes under the tradenames Mandalay Lime Mandarin Mint Breach Breezer Back Ally Blend Snakeyes Scotch Izmir Stinger Kauai Kolada Midnight Madness Aegean Spice Screwdriver Slots Twist Twista Lime Dark Mint and Blackjack Gin Kool brand cigarettes under the tradenames Flow and Groove and Salem brand cigarettes under the tradename Deep Freeze all of which have been marketed by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.

Referring to filter rod generally can be further subdivided into cylindrical shaped filter elements or rod portions using techniques as are known by the skilled artisan familiar with conventional cigarette manufacturing and as described above. The filter rod includes filter material encased in circumscribing wrapping material such as conventional air permeable or air impermeable paper plug wrap or other suitable wrapping material. As an example at least one object and preferably a plurality of objects and shown spaced apart groups for clarity but essentially adjacent to each other may be disposed along the longitudinal axis of and within the rod and may be disposed in a spaced apart relationship from one another or immediately adjacent to each other so as to be in some instances serially engaged. In other instances not shown the objects may be disposed so as to have a repeating pattern of groups of objects each group comprising one or more objects separated by a space wherein the space would correspond to a division between filter rod portions. One skilled in the art will note that the entire filter rod may include sufficient one or more objects therein such that each filter rod portion includes the same number of one or more objects when the filter rod is subdivided. For example a four up filter rod may include objects in multiples of four such that upon subdivision each filter rod portion may include 1 2 3 or 4 objects.

Referring to there is shown a smoking article such as a cigarette possessing certain representative components of a smoking article. The cigarette includes a generally cylindrical rod of a charge or roll of smokable filler material contained in a circumscribing wrapping material . The rod is conventionally referred to as a tobacco rod. The ends of the tobacco rod are open to expose the smokable filler material. The cigarette is shown as having one optional band e.g. a printed coating including a film forming agent such as starch ethylcellulose or sodium alginate applied to the wrapping material and that band circumscribes the cigarette rod in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. That is the band provides a cross directional region relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The band can be printed on the inner surface of the wrapping material i.e. facing the smokable filler material as shown or less preferably on the outer surface of the wrapping material. Although the cigarette can possess a wrapping material having one optional band the cigarette also can possess wrapping material having further optional spaced bands numbering two three or more.

The wrapping material of the tobacco rod can have a wide range of compositions and properties. The selection of a particular wrapping material will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. Tobacco rods can have one layer of wrapping material or tobacco rods can have more than one layer of circumscribing wrapping material such as is the case for the so called double wrap tobacco rods. Exemplary types of wrapping materials wrapping material components and treated wrapping materials are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. and 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 2004 057986 to Hancock et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 2004 047572 to Ashcraft et al. which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and at the other end is positioned a filter element . The filter element positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. Filter element may have a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof may be essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod. The ends of the filter element permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element includes filter material e.g. cellulose acetate tow impregnated with triacetin plasticizer that is over wrapped along the longitudinally extending surface thereof with circumscribing plug wrap material . That is the filter element is circumscribed along its outer circumference or longitudinal periphery by a layer of plug wrap and each end is open to expose the filter material .

Within the filter element is positioned at least one object and preferably a plurality of objects including for example capsules pellets strands including various combinations of different objects see e.g. . The number of objects within each filter element most preferably is a pre determined number and that number can be 1 2 3 or more i.e. at least one . Most preferably in some embodiments each filter element contains a plurality of objects disposed within the filter material of the filter element in some instances particularly towards the central region of the filter element. Most preferably the nature of the filter material is such that the objects are secured or lodged in place within the filter element . In some instances some of the at least one object or plurality of objects may be hollow such as a breakable capsule that may carry a payload incorporating a compound that is intended to introduce some change to the nature or character of mainstream smoke drawn through that filter element e.g. a flavoring agent . That is the shell of some hollow objects may be ruptured at the discretion of the smoker to release the object payload. Alternatively some objects may be a solid porous material with a high surface area capable of altering the smoke and or air drawn through the filter element. Some object may be a solid material such as a polyethylene bead acting as a substrate or matrix support for a flavoring agent. Some highly preferred objects are capable of releasing the agent at the command of the user. For example a preferred breakable hollow object containing a liquid payload is resistant to the release of the payload until the time that the smoker applies a purposeful application of physical force sufficient to rupture the hollow object. Typically a filter material such as cellulose acetate tow or an inserted strand is generally absorbent of liquid materials of the type that comprise the payload and hence the released payload components are capable of undergoing wicking or otherwise experiencing movement or transfer throughout the filter element. Since at least one object and preferably a plurality of objects is included in each filter element the filter element may include combinations of various types of objects as appropriate or desired.

The filter element is attached to the tobacco rod using tipping material e.g. essentially air impermeable tipping paper that circumscribes both the entire length of the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod . The inner surface of the tipping material is fixedly secured to the outer surface of the plug wrap and the outer surface of the wrapping material of the tobacco rod using a suitable adhesive and hence the filter element and the tobacco rod are connected to one another.

The tipping material connecting the filter element to the tobacco rod can have indicia not shown printed thereon. For example a band on the filter end of a cigarette not shown can visually indicate to a smoker the general locations or positions of the objects within the filter element . These indicia may help the smoker to locate some objects so that they can for example be more easily ruptured by squeezing the filter element directly outside the position of any such rupturable object. The indicia on the tipping material may also indicate the nature of the payload carried by each object. For example the indicia may indicate that the particular payload is a spearmint flavoring by having a particular color shape or design. If desired the inner surface i.e. the surface facing the plug wrap of the tipping material can be coated with a material that can act to retard the propensity of rupturable object contents from migration wicking or bleeding from the filter material into the tipping material and hence causing what might be perceived as unsightly visible staining of the tipping material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture .

A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material and plug wrap. The optional perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as laser perforation techniques. As these techniques are carried out after insertion of any objects into the filter element care is taken to avoid damaging the objects during the formation of the perforations . One way to avoid damage from air dilution techniques such as those employing laser perforation technologies involves locating the perforations at a position adjacent to the positions of the objects . In such a manner radiation heat or physical forces acting upon the filter element during perforation processes do not have such a great propensity to damage the objects. Alternatively so called off line air dilution techniques can be used e.g. through the use of porous paper plug wrap and pre perforated tipping paper . The perforated region can be positioned upstream of any object as shown or the perforated region can be positioned downstream of any object i.e. towards the extreme mouth end of the filter element .

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap Plug Wrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 65 M9 95 M9 150 M4 260 M4 and 260 M4T. Preferred plug wrap materials are non porous in nature. Non porous plug wraps exhibit porosities of less than about 10 CORESTA units and preferably less than about 5 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available as Ref. No. 646 Grade from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic Trierendberg Holding . Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

The use of non porous plug wrap materials is desirable in order to avoid the contents of rupturable objects within filter elements from causing what might be perceived as unsightly visible staining of the tipping material . For example highly non porous plug wrap materials can act to retard or block the propensity of liquid contents of the rupturable objects from migration wicking or bleeding from the filter material into the tipping material. The plug wrap is typically applied about the rod in a garniture region downstream of the gathering region. As such in some embodiments the objects may be attached to or otherwise engaged with the plug wrap i.e. the plug wrap comprising the elongate member . As such when the plug wrap is applied to the rod in the garniture region the objects may be introduced into the filter material in an alternate manner i.e. about the periphery of the filter material or in the form of microcapsules engaged with the plug wrap .

Tobacco materials useful for carrying out the present invention can vary. Tobacco materials can be derived from various types of tobacco such as flue cured tobacco burley tobacco Oriental tobacco or Maryland tobacco dark tobacco dark fired tobacco and Rustica tobaccos as well as other rare or specialty tobaccos or blends thereof. Descriptions of various types of tobaccos growing practices harvesting practices and curing practices are set for in Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . Most preferably the tobaccos are those that have been appropriately cured and aged.

Typically tobacco materials for cigarette manufacture are used in a so called blended form. For example certain popular tobacco blends commonly referred to as American blends comprise mixtures of flue cured tobacco burley tobacco and Oriental tobacco. Such blends in many cases contain tobacco materials that have a processed form such as processed tobacco stems e.g. cut rolled or cut puffed stems volume expanded tobacco e.g. puffed tobacco such as dry ice expanded tobacco DIET preferably in cut filler form . Tobacco materials also can have the form of reconstituted tobaccos e.g. reconstituted tobaccos manufactured using paper making type or cast sheet type processes . The precise amount of each type of tobacco within a tobacco blend used for the manufacture of a particular cigarette brand varies from brand to brand. See for example Voges Ed. p. 44 45 1984 Browne 3rd Ed. p. 43 1990 and Davis et al. Eds. p. 346 1999 . Other representative tobacco types and types of tobacco blends also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 836 224 to Lawson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 924 888 to Perfetti et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 056 537 to Brown et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2002 0000235 to Shafer et al. 2004 0084056 to Lawson et al. 2004 0255965 to Perfetti et al and 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. PCT Application Pub. No. WO 02 37990 and Bombick et al. 39 p. 11 17 1997 .

Tobacco materials typically are used in forms and in manners that are traditional for the manufacture of smoking articles such as cigarettes. The tobacco normally is used in cut filler form e.g. shreds or strands of tobacco filler cut into widths of about 1 10 inch to about 1 60 inch preferably about 1 20 inch to about 1 35 inch and in lengths of about inch to about 3 inches . The amount of tobacco filler normally used within the tobacco rod of a cigarette ranges from about 0.6 g to about 1 g. The tobacco filler normally is employed so as to fill the tobacco rod at a packing density of about 100 mg cm3 to about 300 mg cm3 and often about 150 mg cm3 to about 275 mg cm3.

If desired the tobacco materials of the tobacco rod can further include other components. Other components include casing materials e.g. sugars glycerin cocoa and licorice and top dressing materials e.g. flavoring materials such as menthol . The selection of particular casing and top dressing components is dependent upon factors such as the sensory characteristics that are desired and the selection of those components will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette design and manufacture. See Gutcho Noyes Data Corp. 1972 and Leffingwell et al. Tobacco Flavoring for Smoking Products 1972 .

The dimensions of a representative cigarette can vary. Preferred cigarettes are rod shaped and can have diameters of about 7.5 mm e.g. circumferences of about 22.5 mm to about 25 mm and can have total lengths of about 80 mm to about 100 mm. The length of the filter element can vary. Typical filter elements can have lengths of about 20 mm to about 40 mm. In one preferred embodiment the length of the filter element is about 27 mm and the length of the tobacco rod is about 56 mm to about 57 mm. In another embodiment the length of the filter element is about 31 mm and the length of the tobacco rod is about 67 mm to about 68 mm. The tipping paper can circumscribe the entire filter element and about 4 mm of the length of the tobacco rod in the region adjacent to the filter element.

Preferred cigarettes made according to the method of the present invention exhibit desirable resistance to draw whether or not any hollow objects within their filter elements are broken. For example an exemplary cigarette exhibits a pressure drop of between about 50 mm and about 200 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Preferred cigarettes exhibit pressure drop values of between about 70 mm and about 180 mm more preferably between about 80 mm to about 150 mm water pressure drop at 17.5 cc sec. air flow. Typically pressure drop values of cigarettes are measured using a Filtrona Filter Test Station CTS Series available form Filtrona Instruments and Automation Ltd.

In use the smoker lights the lighting end of the cigarette and draws smoke into his her mouth through the filter element at the opposite end of the cigarette. The smoker can smoke all or a portion of the cigarette with the objects intact. During the portion of the smoking experience that any objects remain intact smoke generated in the tobacco rod is drawn to the smoker through the filter material of the filter element. Most preferably the overall character or nature of the drawn smoke is virtually unaffected to any significant degree as a result of the presence of the intact object s within the filter element unless particular objects are configured to be activated by or otherwise affect the drawn smoke. If desired the smoker may rupture any or all of the rupturable objects at any time before during or even after the smoking experience. Breakage of any rupturable object acts to release the contents that are contained and sealed therewithin. Release of the contents of any rupturable object into the filter element thus enables the smoker to achieve the intended benefit of action of certain of those contents whether that benefit results from flavoring or scenting the smoke cooling or moistening the smoke freshening the scent of the cigarette butt or achieving some other goal associated with modifying the overall composition of the smoke or altering the performance characteristics of the cigarette. That is in highly preferred embodiments the contents of any rupturable object are not released into the filter element until the particular object is purposefully physically broken but when a rupturable object is ruptured a portion of component contained within the rupturable object e.g. portions of a flavoring agent that is consequently released into the filter element is incorporated into each subsequent puff of mainstream smoke that is received through that filter element. In this manner any rupturable object can be ruptured by the smoker at their discretion. Multiple flavors or scents in or otherwise associated with the individual objects allows for different taste in each puff of the cigarette or an increased amplitude of sensory response in each puff may be experienced by the smoker if the flavor is the same in all objects. In some instances relatively small objects may be incorporated in each filter element due to the different manners in and the different extent to which the sensory responses may be affected when smoking the cigarette.

During use of the cigarette application of physical pressure to any of the rupturable objects for example by a squeezing action provided by the fingers of the smoker to the filter element causes relevant region of the filter element to deform and hence causes a particular rupturable object or objects to rupture and release the respective payload to the filter material of the filter element. The rupture of any rupturable object can be discerned by an audible pop or snap the feel of a crushing or shattering of the rupturable object or the sense of a rapid decrease in the resistance to the pressure applied by the smoker. Rupture of a rupturable object causes contents of its payload to disperse throughout portions of the filter material and potentially to some extent into the tobacco rod . Most preferably the filter element into which the objects are placed and maintained is such that the filter element effectively maintains its overall shape during the manufacture storage and use of the cigarette. Most preferably the filter element is sufficiently flexible such that the overall cylindrical shape of the filter element returns to essentially its original shape after the application of pressure to the filter element is ceased. That is the filter element possesses sufficient flexibility to allow squeezing pressure applied by the fingers of the smoker to break a rupturable object and sufficient resilience to allow the deformed filter element to return to its original shape.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette possessing a tobacco rod having a filter element connected at an end thereof using tipping material . The filter element is composed of two longitudinally aligned segments . The first segment which is positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod preferably in an abutting end to end relationship possesses a filter material and a circumscribing plug wrap . The second segment is positioned adjacent the first segment preferably in an abutting end to end relationship at the extreme mouth end of the cigarette. The second segment incorporates filter material having a plurality of rupturable objects disposed therein. The longitudinal surface of the second filter element is in turn circumscribed by plug wrap . The type of filter element previously described with reference to can be used to provide the second filter segment . Each of those segments are maintained in place relative to one another using plug wrap that circumscribes the outer longitudinally extending surfaces of both of those filter segments. A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the tipping material as well as the plug wrap for the two filter segments and plug wrap of the first segment . The plug wrap for the region of the second filter segment incorporating objects can be that type of plug wrap material e.g. nonporous plug wrap described previously with reference to .

The first segment most preferably is a generally cylindrically shaped filter segment. The first segment most preferably is manufactured using a traditional cigarette filter material such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered polypropylene web gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Exemplary cigarette filter segments for multi component cigarette filters are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 920 990 to Lawrence et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker U.S. Pat. No. 5 074 320 to Jones et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 838 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. Carbonaceous material such as activated charcoal particles also can be incorporated into that filter segment.

Other types of cigarettes possessing multi component filters also can be used to incorporate those types of object containing filter segments representative of the present invention. That is cigarettes can possess multi component filter elements having other types of formats and configurations. For example a two segment filter element can have one segment possessing objects and that segment can be positioned between the tobacco rod and the extreme mouth end filter segment. As another example a three segment filter element can have one segment possessing objects and that segment can be positioned immediately adjacent the tobacco rod at the extreme mouth end of the cigarette or as the middle filter segment between the tobacco end filter segment and the mouth end filter segment. Object containing filter segments made according to the method of the present invention can be incorporated into the multi component filter of cigarettes of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 909 to Gentry et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 718 250 to Banerjee et al US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and PCT Application Pub. No. WO 03 047836 to Xue et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. See also the representative types of filter elements set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 063 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 064 791 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 075 936 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 357 950 to Berger and U.S. Pat. No. 4 508 525 to Berger which are incorporated herein by reference. For example the types of objects set forth as cigarette filter components in US Pat. Application Pub. Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and 2005 0070409 to Deal and PCT Application WO 03 009711 to Kim which are incorporated herein by reference can be replaced with the types of objects set forth herein. If desired the types of filter elements set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 724 997 to Smith et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety can incorporate the aforementioned types of objects.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the inventions set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which these inventions pertain having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the inventions are not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

