---

title: Individualizing a content presentation
abstract: Embodiments provide an apparatus, a system, and a method. A method individualizing a presentation of content includes receiving data indicative of a physical orientation of a person relative to a display operable to present the content. The method also includes selecting a display parameter of the presented content in response to the received data indicative of a physical orientation of a person. The method further includes employing the selected display parameter in presenting the content. The method may include generating the data indicative of a physical orientation of a person relative to a display operable to present the content. The method may include receiving information indicative of a change in the physical orientation of the person proximate to the display; and changing the display parameter of the presented content in response to the received information indicative of a change in the physical orientation of the person proximate to the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09647780&OS=09647780&RS=09647780
owner: Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 09647780
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070824
---
An embodiment provides method individualizing a presentation of content. The method includes receiving data indicative of a physical orientation of a person relative to a display operable to present the content. The method also includes selecting a display parameter of the presented content in response to the received data indicative of a physical orientation of a person. The method further includes employing the selected display parameter in presenting the content. The method may include generating the data indicative of a physical orientation of a person relative to a display operable to present the content. The method may include receiving information indicative of a change in the physical orientation of the person proximate to the display and changing the display parameter of the presented content in response to the received information indicative of a change in the physical orientation of the person proximate to the display. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a system for individualizing a content presentation by a display. The system includes a tracking apparatus operable to gather data indicative of a spatial aspect of a person with respect to the display. The system also includes an individualization module operable to individualize a parameter of the content presentation in response to the data indicative of a spatial aspect of a person with respect to the display. The system further includes a display controller operable to implement the individualized parameter in a presentation of the content by the display. The system may include the display operable to present a humanly perceivable content to at least one person proximate to the display. In addition to the foregoing other system embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

A further embodiment includes an apparatus for individualizing presentation of a content. The apparatus includes means for receiving data indicative of a physical orientation of a person relative to a display operable to present the content. The apparatus further includes means for selecting a display parameter of the presented content in response to the received data indicative of a physical orientation of a person. The apparatus also includes means for employing the selected display parameter in presenting the content. The apparatus may include means for generating the data indicative of a physical orientation of a person relative to a display operable to present the content. The apparatus may include means for receiving information indicative of a change in the physical orientation of the person proximate to the display and means for changing the display parameter of the presented content in response to the received information indicative of a change in the physical orientation of the person proximate to the display. In addition to the foregoing other apparatus embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

An embodiment provides a method respectively individualizing content presentation for at least two persons. The method includes receiving a first data indicative of a spatial orientation of a first person of the at least two persons relative to a display presenting a first content. The method also includes selecting a first display parameter of the first presented content in response to the received first data indicative of a spatial orientation of the first person. The method further includes employing the selected first display parameter in presenting the first content. The method also includes receiving a second data indicative of a spatial orientation of a second person of the at least two persons relative to the display presenting a second content. The method further includes selecting a second display parameter of the second presented content in response to the second received data indicative of a spatial orientation of the second person. The method also includes employing the selected second display parameter in presenting the second content. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

Another embodiment provides a method of individualizing a presentation of a content. The method includes receiving data indicative of an attribute of a person proximate to a display operable to present the content. The method also includes selecting the content in response to the received data indicative of an attribute of the person. The method further includes presenting the selected content using the display. In addition to the foregoing other method embodiments are described in the claims drawings and text that form a part of the present application.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrated embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and through wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and is coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communications media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications link between the computers may be used.

The tracking system may include one or more sensors operable to acquire data indicative of an orientation of a person such as person with respect to a display such as the display screen . For example the one or more sensors may include image sensors illustrated as image sensor image sensor and or image sensor . The image sensors may include a visual image sensor a visual camera and or an infrared sensor. By way of further example the one or more sensors may include a radar and or other type of distance and bearing measuring sensor. The data indicative of a relationship between a person and a display may include orientation information. Orientation information may include a coordinate relationship expressed with respect to an axis such as the axis . Alternatively orientation information may include bearing and distance. The data indicative of a relationship between a person and a display may include data indicative of a gaze direction of a person such as for example a direction and a distance of person s gaze.

The display screen may be described as including at least two areas of screen real estate the two areas of screen real estate being useable for displaying respective multiple instances of content. The content may include a static content a dynamic content and or a streaming content. For example a portion of the display screen proximate to person indicated as screen real estate may be used to provide a streaming content to person . In another example another portion of the display screen proximate to person indicated as screen real estate may be used to provide a streaming content to person . Streaming content may or may not be substantially similar to streaming content .

In an embodiment the data receiver circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a dynamic static orientation receiver circuit a gaze orientation data receiver circuit a physical expression data receiver circuit a gaze tracking data receiver circuit a coordinate information data receiver circuit and or a physical orientation data receiver circuit .

In another embodiment the display parameter selecting circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a display parameter adjustment selecting circuit a physical display parameter selecting circuit a display size parameter selecting circuit a display location parameter selecting circuit and or a display parameter intensity selecting circuit .

In a further embodiment the data gathering circuit may include at least one additional circuit. The at least one additional circuit may include a dynamic orientation data gathering circuit a static orientation data gathering circuit and a physical orientation data gathering circuit.

After a start operation the operational flow includes an acquiring operation that receives data indicative of a physical orientation of a person relative to a display operable to present the content. The acquiring operation may be implemented using the data receiver circuit described in conjunction with . A choosing operation selects a display parameter of the presented content in response to the received data indicative of a physical orientation of a person. The choosing operation may be implemented using the display parameter selecting circuit . A utilization operation employs the selected display parameter in presenting the content. The utilization operation may be implemented using the display content controller . The operational flow then moves to an end operation.

In embodiment the operational flow may be implemented in the environment described in conjunction with . The acquiring operation may receive data indicative of a physical orientation of a the person relative to the display screen operable to present the streaming content . For example the physical orientation of the person relative to the display screen may include the person s gaze direction. The data indicative of person s physical orientation may be gathered using the tracking system and its associated sensors and that are appropriately located in the environment . For example the choosing operation may select a display parameter that includes the screen real estate portion of the display screen advantageously located relative to the physical orientation of the person for person to view the streaming content . The selected portion of the display screen is indicated as screen real estate . In another example the display parameter may include selecting a scent to be presented from the scent generator and or scent the generator . The display system may employ the display parameter selected by the utilization operation by presenting the streaming content at the screen real estate portion of the display screen . In another embodiment the person may move from the left to the right of the display screen and into the orientation and become for illustration purposes the person . The operational flow may then be repeated to select and utilize the screen real estate to present advantageously the streaming content or to select and utilize the screen real estate to present advantageously the streaming content .

In an embodiment the content may include a static content a dynamic content and or a streaming content. Streaming content may include television based content such as scripted program an unscripted program a sports event and or a movie. In a further embodiment the streaming content may include prerecorded program content. For example the prerecorded program content may include advertising and or promotional material. In another embodiment the content may include a similar content provided over a network such as the Internet. In a further embodiment the streaming content may include a streaming content from the Internet such as streaming content from YouTube.com and or MSNBC. In another embodiment the streaming content may be received from a terrestrial or an extraterrestrial transmitter. The content may include a streaming content received by the apparatus of via a wireless link a satellite link and or a wired link network . The content may include content retrieved from a computer storage media such as the computer storage media .

The individualization module includes an individualization module operable to individualize a parameter of the content presentation in response to the data indicative of a spatial aspect of a person with respect to the display . The display controller includes a display controller operable to implement the individualized parameter in a presentation of the content by the display.

In an alternative embodiment the tracking apparatus may include at least one additional embodiment. The at least one additional embodiment may include tracking apparatus tracking apparatus tracking apparatus tracking apparatus and or tracking apparatus . The tracking apparatus includes at least one sensor and is operable to gather data indicative of a spatial aspect of a person with respect to the display . In an embodiment the at least one sensor includes a camera microphone and or an identification signal receiver. The tracking apparatus includes a tracking apparatus operable to gather data indicative of at least one of a gaze direction head orientation and or position of a person with respect to the display. The tracking apparatus includes a tracking apparatus operable to gather data indicative of at least one of an attribute of a person with respect to the display. For example an attribute of the person may include a male attribute a female attribute and or an age attribute such as young or old. The tracking apparatus includes a tracking apparatus operable to gather data indicative of a spatial orientation of a person with respect to the display. The tracking apparatus includes a tracking apparatus operable to gather data indicative of a spatial orientation of a part of the body of a person with respect to the display.

In another alternative embodiment the individualization module may include at least one additional embodiment. The at least one additional embodiment may include individualization module and or individualization module . The individualization module includes an individualization module operable to individualize a display screen real estate size of the content presentation in response to the data indicative of a spatial aspect of a person with respect to the display . The individualization module includes an individualization module operable to individualize a display screen real estate location of the content presentation in response to the data indicative of a spatial aspect of a person with respect to the display.

In a further embodiment the system may include the display . The display is operable to present a humanly perceivable content to at least one person proximate to the display. The display may include at least one additional embodiment. The at least one additional embodiment may include a display and or a display . The display includes a display operable to present a humanly perceivable visual audible and or scent content to at least one person proximate to the display. The display includes a display apparatus operable to present a humanly perceivable content to at least one person proximate to the display device the display apparatus including a single display surface or two or more display surfaces operable in combination to display the humanly perceivable content.

In an alternative embodiment the apparatus includes means for generating the data indicative of a physical orientation of a person relative to a display operable to present the content. In another alternative embodiment the apparatus includes additional means . The additional means includes means for receiving information indicative of a change in the physical orientation of the person proximate to the display. The additional means also include means for changing the display parameter of the presented content in response to the received information indicative of a change in the physical orientation of the person proximate to the display.

In an alternative embodiment the second choosing operation may include at least one additional operation such as the operation . The operation selects a second display parameter of the second presented content in response to the second received data indicative of a spatial orientation of the second person. The second display parameter is selected at least in part to diminish any interference with presenting the first content.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems apparatus devices computer program products and or processes using block diagrams flow diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples. A particular block diagram operation diagram flowchart illustration environment and or example should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated therein. For example in certain instances one or more elements of an environment may be deemed not necessary and omitted. In other instances one or more other elements may be deemed necessary and added.

Insofar as such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood that each function and or operation within such block diagrams operation diagrams flowcharts illustrations or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof unless otherwise indicated. In an embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

The herein described aspects depict different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

