---

title: Anti-CD70 antibody and its use for the treatment and prevention of cancer and immune disorders
abstract: Disclosed are CD70 binding agents, such as anti-CD70 antibodies and derivatives, that induce a cytotoxic, cytostatic or immunomodulatory without conjugation to a therapeutic agents as well as pharmaceutical compositions and kits comprising the antibody or derivative. Also disclosed are methods for the treatment and prevention of CD70-expressing cancers and immunological disorders comprising administering the CD70 binding agents to a subject.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07641903&OS=07641903&RS=07641903
owner: Seattle Genetics, Inc.
number: 07641903
owner_city: Bothell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070413
---
This application in a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 251 173 filed Oct. 14 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 491 390 issued Feb. 17 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 619 018 filed Oct. 15 2004 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 645 355 filed Jan. 19 2005 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 792 132 filed Apr. 13 2006 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

CD70 is a member of the tumor necrosis factor TNF family of cell membrane bound and secreted molecules that are expressed by a variety of normal and malignant cell types. The primary amino acid AA sequence of CD70 predicts a transmembrane type II protein with its carboxyl terminus exposed to the outside of cells and its amino terminus found in the cytosolic side of the plasma membrane Bowman et al. 1994152 1756 61 Goodwin et al. 199373 447 56 . Human CD70 is composed of a 20 AA cytoplasmic domain an 18 AA transmembrane domain and a 155 AA extracytoplasmic domain with two potential N linked glycosylation sites Bowman et al. supra Goodwin et al. supra . Specific immunoprecipitation of radioisotope labeled CD70 expressing cells by anti CD70 antibodies yields polypeptides of 29 and 50 kDa Goodwin et al. supra Hintzen et al. 1994152 1762 73 . Based on its homology to TNF alpha and TNF beta especially in structural strands C D H and I a trimeric structure is predicted for CD70 Petsch et al. 199532 761 72 .

Original immunohistological studies revealed that CD70 is expressed on germinal center B cells and rare T cells in tonsils skin and gut Hintzen et al. 19946 477 80 . Subsequently CD70 was reported to be expressed on the cell surface of recently antigen activated T and B lymphocytes and its expression wanes after the removal of antigenic stimulation Lens et al. 199626 2964 71 Lens et al. 199790 38 45 . Within the lymphoid system activated natural killer cells Orengo et al. 1997107 608 13 and mouse mature peripheral dendritic cells Akiba et al. 2000191 375 80 also express CD70. In non lymphoid lineages CD70 has been detected on thymic medullar epithelial cells Hintzen et al. 1994 supra Hishima et al. 200024 742 46 .

In addition to expression on normal cells CD70 expression has been reported in different types of cancers including lymphomas carcinomas and tumors of neural origin. In malignant B cells 71 of diffuse large B cell lymphomas 33 of follicle center lymphomas 25 of mantle lymphomas and 50 of B CLL have been reported to express CD70 Lens et al. 1999106 491 503 . CD70 is frequently expressed together with other lymphoid activation markers on the malignant Hodgkin and Reed Sternberg cells of Hodgkin s disease Gruss and Kadin 19969 417 46 . One report demonstrates CD70 expression on 88 7 of 8 cases of thymic carcinomas and 20 1 of 5 cases of atypical thymomas Hishima et al. 2000 supra . The second type of carcinoma on which CD70 has been detected is nasopharyngeal carcinoma. One study reports the presence of CD70 on 80 16 of 20 cases of snap frozen tumor biopsies obtained from undifferentiated nasopharyngeal carcinomas Agathanggelou et al. 1995147 1152 60 . CD70 has also been detected on brain tumor cells especially glioma cell lines solid human gliomas and meningiomas Held Feindt and Mentlein 200298 352 56 Wischlusen et al. 200262 2592 99 .

The receptor for CD70 is CD27 a glycosylated type I transmembrane protein of about 55 kDa Goodwin et al. 199373 447 56 Hintzen et al. 1994 supra . CD70 is sometimes referred to as CD27L. CD27 which exists as a homodimer on the cell surface Gravestein et al. 199323 943 50 is a member of the TNF receptor superfamily as defined by cysteine rich repeats of about 40 amino acids in the extracellular domain Smith et al. 1990248 1019 23 Locksley et al. 2001104 487 501 . CD27 is expressed by thymocytes NK T and B cells Hintzen et al. 199415 307 11 Lens et al. 199810 491 99 . On resting T cells CD27 is constitutively expressed yet antigenic triggering further upregulates CD27 expression de Jong et al. 1991146 2488 94 Hintzen et al. 1993151 2426 35 . Further triggering of T cells via their T cell antigen receptor complex alone or in combination with the accessory molecule CD28 releases soluble CD27 from activated T cells Hintzen et al. 1991147 29 35 . Na ve B cells do not express CD27 but its expression is induced and in contrast to CD70 sustained after antigenic triggering of B cells Jacquot et al. 1997159 2652 57 Kobata et al. 199592 11249 53 .

In marked contrast to the restricted expression of CD27 and CD70 in normal B lineage cells both CD27 and CD70 are frequently co expressed in many B cell non Hodgkin s lymphomas and leukemias. This could potentially lead to functional CD27 CD70 interactions on these cells in the form of an autocrine loop resulting in CD27 signaling and in CD70 induced proliferation thereby providing a growth advantage to malignant cells Lens et al. 1999 supra .

The role of CD70 CD27 co stimulation in cell mediated autoimmune diseases has been investigated in a model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis EAE Nakajima et al. 2000109 188 96 . In vivo administration of the anti mouse CD70 mAb clone FR 70 suppressed the onset of EAE by inhibiting antigen induced TNF alpha production without affecting B and T cell number T cell priming Ig production or T1 T2 cell balance. However such treatment had little efficacy in established disease.

Graft versus host disease GVHD is a T1 mediated immune response that is a major and often lethal consequence of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation BMT therapy that occurs when histocompatibility antigen differences between the BM donor and the recipient of the transplant are present den Haan et al. 1995268 1476 . GVHD is an immune reaction against host tissues mounted by mature T cells present in the transplanted donor marrow Giralt and Champlin 199484 3603 . It is noteworthy that CD70 has been detected in vivo on CD4 cells in conditions characterized by allogeneic reaction as in cases of maternal T cell engraftment in severe combined immune deficiency patients Brugnoni et al. 199755 99 104 . Prophylaxis of GVHD is achieved by pan T cell immunomodulatory agents such as cyclosporine corticosteroids or methotrexate. However these agents are not specific and cause significant adverse side effects.

As indicated supra CD70 is not expressed on normal non hematopoietic cells. CD70 expression is mostly restricted to recently antigen activated T and B cells under physiological conditions and its expression is down regulated when antigenic stimulation ceases. Evidence from animal models suggests that CD70 may contribute to immunological disorders such as e.g. rheumatoid arthritis Brugnoni et al. 199755 99 104 psoriatic arthritis Brugnoni et al. 199755 99 104 and systemic lupus erythematosus SLE . Oelke et al. 200450 1850 60 . In addition to its potential role in inflammatory responses CD70 is also expressed on a variety of transformed cells including lymphoma B cells Hodgkin and Reed Sternberg cells malignant cells of neural origin and a number of carcinomas.

Accordingly there is a need for anti CD70 antibodies and other CD70 binding agents that can exert a clinically useful cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory effect on CD70 expressing cells particularly without exerting undesirable effects on non CD70 expressing cells. Such binding agents would be useful against cancers that express CD70 or immune disorders that are mediated by CD70 expressing cells.

The present invention provides CD70 antibodies and other CD70 binding agents and methods relating to the use of such binding agents for the prophylaxis or treatment of CD70 expressing cancers and immunological disorders where CD70 expressing cells are present. The antibody or other binding agent binds to CD70 and exhibits a cytotoxic cytostatic and or immunomodulatory effect on CD70 expressing cells in the absence of conjugation to a therapeutic agent.

In one aspect a method of treating a CD70 expressing cancer in a subject is provided. The method generally includes administering to the subject an effective amount of a binding agent having an antigen binding region that binds to CD70 and at least one effector domain mediating at least an ADCC ADCP or CDC response in the subject wherein the binding agent exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect in the absence of conjugation to a therapeutic agent. The CD70 binding agent can be for example an antibody such as a chimeric humanized or fully human antibody. The antibody can include for example an effector domain of a human IgM or IgG antibody. The IgG antibody can be for example a human IgG1 or IgG3 subtype. In some embodiments the antibody includes a human constant region.

In some embodiments the antibody competes for binding to CD70 with monoclonal antibody 1F6 or 2F2. In other embodiments the antibody is a humanized 1F6 or 2F2 or a chimeric 1F6 or 2F2 antibody. The antibody can be for example monovalent divalent or multivalent.

The CD70 expressing cancer can be for example a kidney tumor a B cell lymphoma a colon carcinoma Hodgkin s Disease multiple myeloma Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia non Hodgkin s lymphoma a mantle cell lymphoma chronic lymphocytic leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia a nasopharyngeal carcinoma brain tumor or a thymic carcinoma. The kidney tumor can be for example a renal cell carcinoma. The brain tumor can be for example a glioma a glioblastoma an astrocytoma or a meningioma. The subject can be for example a mammal such as a human being.

In another aspect a method for treating an immunological disorder is provided. The method includes administering to a subject an effective amount of a binding agent having an antigen binding region that binds to CD70 and at least one effector domain mediating at least an ADCC ADCP or CDC response in the subject wherein the binding agent exerts a cytostatic cytotoxic or immunomodulatory effect in the absence of conjugation to a therapeutic agent. The CD70 binding agent can be for example an antibody such as a chimeric humanized or fully human antibody. The antibody can include for example an effector domain of a human IgM or IgG antibody. The IgG antibody can be for example a human IgG1 or IgG3 subtype. In some embodiments the antibody includes a human constant region.

In some embodiments the antibody competes for binding to CD70 with monoclonal antibody 1F6 or 2F2. In other embodiments the antibody is a humanized 1F6 or 2F2 or a chimeric 1F6 or 2F2 antibody. The antibody can be for example monovalent divalent or multivalent.

The immunological disorder can be for example a T cell mediated immunological disorder. In some embodiments the T cell mediated immunogical disorder comprises activated T cells expressing CD70. In some embodiments resting T cells are not substantially depleted by administration of the antibody. The T cell mediated immunological disorder also can be for example rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus SLE Type I diabetes asthma atopic dermatitis allergic rhinitis thrombocytopenic purpura multiple sclerosis psoriasis Sj gren s syndrome Hashimoto s thyroiditis Graves disease primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis tuberculosis or graft versus host disease. In other embodiments the immunological disorder is an activated B lymphocyte disorder. The subject can be for example a mammal such as a human being.

In another aspect an antibody that includes an antigen binding region that binds to CD70 is provided. The antibody includes at least one effector domain mediating at least an ADCC ADCP or CDC response in a subject and exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a CD70 expressing cancer which cytostatic or cytotoxic effect is achieved in the absence of conjugation to a cytostatic or cytotoxic agent and wherein the antibody is not monoclonal antibody 1F6 or 2F2. The antibody can compete for binding to CD70 with monoclonal antibody 1F6 and 2F2.

In another aspect the antibody includes an antigen binding region that binds to CD70 and at least one effector domain mediating at least an ADCC ADCP or CDC response in a subject and exerts an immunomodulatory effect on a CD70 expressing immunological disorder which immunomodulatory effect is achieved in the absence of conjugation to a cytostatic or cytotoxic agent and wherein the antibody is not monoclonal antibody 1F6 or 2F2. The antibody can compete for binding to CD70 with monoclonal antibody 1F6 and 2F2.

In a related aspect also provided is a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of a CD70 expressing cancer or an immunological disorder. The composition includes a CD70 binding antibody and at least one pharmaceutically compatible ingredient. Further provided is a pharmaceutical kit including a container including a CD70 binding antibody wherein the antibody is lyophilized and a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent.

The present invention may be more fully understood by reference to the following detailed description of the invention non limiting examples of specific embodiments of the invention and the appended figures.

The present invention provides CD70 binding agent and methods for using such binding agents for the prophylaxis or treatment of CD70 expressing cancers and immunological disorders. The CD70 binding agent includes a domain that binds to CD70 e.g. the extracellular domain of human CD70 and an effector domain. The present inventors have discovered that a CD70 binding agent containing an effector domain can induces a cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory effect on CD70 expressing cells in the absence of conjugation to a therapeutic agent. The cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory effect can be induced for example by recruiting and activating cytotoxic white blood cells e.g. natural killer NK cells phagocytotic cells e.g. macrophages and or serum complement components.

In one aspect the methods and compositions relate to antibodies and antibody derivatives that bind to CD70. In an exemplary embodiment the antibodies or derivatives thereof compete with monoclonal antibody 1F6 or 2F2 for binding to CD70. A cytotoxic cytostatic and or immunomodulatory effect is mediated by the CD70 antibody or derivative and effector cells or complement components that interact with an effector domain e.g. an Fc region of the antibody. The cytotoxic cytostatic and or immunomodulatory effect depletes or inhibits the proliferation of CD70 expressing cells. CD70 antibodies can be monoclonal chimeric humanized or human antibodies. In some embodiments the antibody constant regions are of the IgG subtype. In some embodiments the antibody is not a mouse monoclonal antibody.

In another aspect the methods and compositions relate to other CD70 binding agents that bind to CD70. The CD70 binding agent binds to an extracellular domain of CD70. A cytotoxic cytostatic and or immunomodulatory effect is mediated by the CD70 binding agent and effector cells or complement components that interact with an effector domain e.g. an Fc region . The cytotoxic cytostatic and or immunomodulatory effect depletes or inhibits the proliferation of CD70 expressing cells. CD70 binding agents can be for example CD27 and derivatives thereof.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art pertinent to the methods and compositions described. As used herein the following terms and phrases have the meanings ascribed to them unless specified otherwise.

The terms inhibit or inhibition of as used herein means to reduce by a measurable amount or to prevent entirely.

The term CD70 binding agent as used herein means an anti CD70 antibody a derivative of an anti CD70 antibody or other agent that binds to CD70 such as an extracellular domain or a portion thereof.

A therapeutic agent is an agent that exerts a cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory effect on cancer cells or activated immune cells.

A cytotoxic effect refers to the depletion elimination and or the killing of a target cell. A cytotoxic agent refers to an agent that has a cytotoxic effect on a cell.

A cytostatic effect refers to the inhibition of cell proliferation. A cytostatic agent refers to an agent that has a cytostatic effect on a cell or a specific subset of cells thereby inhibiting the growth and or expansion of the cell or specific subset of cells .

The term deplete in the context of the effect of a CD70 binding agent on CD70 expressing cells refers to a reduction or elimination of the CD70 expressing cells.

The term immunomodulatory agent as used herein refers to an agent that modulates the development or maintenance of an immunologic response. Such modulation can be effected by for example elimination of immune cells e.g. T or B lymphocytes induction or generation of immune cells that can modulate e.g. down regulate the functional capacity of other cells induction of an unresponsive state in immune cells e.g. anergy or increasing decreasing or changing the activity or function of immune cells including for example altering the pattern of proteins expressed by these cells e.g. altered production and or secretion of certain classes of molecules such as cytokines chemokines growth factors transcription factors kinases costimulatory molecules or other cell surface receptors and the like . In typical embodiments an immunomodulatory agent has a cytotoxic or cytostatic effect on an immune cell that promotes an immune response.

 Immune cell as used herein refers to a cell of hematopoietic lineage involved in regulating an immune response. In typical embodiments an immune cell is a T lymphocyte a B lymphocyte an NK cell a monocyte macrophage or a dendritic cell.

The term polypeptide refers to a polymer of amino acids and its equivalent and does not refer to a specific length of a product thus peptides and proteins are included within the definition of a polypeptide. Also included within the definition of polypeptides are antibodies as defined herein. A polypeptide region refers to a segment of a polypeptide which segment may contain for example one or more domains or motifs e.g. a polypeptide region of an antibody can contain for example one or more complementarity determining regions CDRs . The term fragment refers to a portion of a polypeptide typically having at least 20 contiguous or at least 50 contiguous amino acids of the polypeptide. A derivative is a polypeptide or fragment thereof having one or more non conservative or conservative amino acid substitutions relative to a second polypeptide or a polypeptide or fragment thereof that is modified by covalent attachment of a second molecule such as e.g. by attachment of a heterologous polypeptide or by glycosylation acetylation phosphorylation and the like. Further included within the definition of derivative are for example a polypeptides containing one or more analogs of an amino acid e.g. unnatural amino acids and the like polypeptides with unsubstituted linkages as well as other modifications known in the art both naturally and non naturally occurring.

The term antibody as used herein refers to a immunoglobulin polypeptides and immunologically active portions of immunoglobulin polypeptides i.e. polypeptides of the immunoglobulin family or fragments thereof that contain an antigen binding site that immunospecifically binds to a specific antigen e.g. CD70 or b conservatively substituted derivatives of such immunoglobulin polypeptides or fragments that immunospecifically bind to the antigen e.g. CD70 . Antibodies are generally described in for example Harlow and Lane Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1988 .

In the context of immunoglobulin polypeptides or fragments thereof as defined above conservative substitution means one or more amino acid substitutions that do not substantially reduce specific binding e.g. as measured by the K of the immunoglobulin polypeptide or fragment thereof to an antigen i.e. substitutions that increase binding that do not significantly alter binding or that reduce binding by no more than about 40 typically no more than about 30 more typically no more than about 20 even more typically no more than about 10 or most typically no more than about 5 as determined by standard binding assays such as e.g. ELISA .

An antibody derivative as used herein refers to an antibody as defined above that is modified by covalent attachment of a heterologous molecule such as e.g. by attachment of a heterologous polypeptide or by glycosylation acetylation or phosphorylation not normally associated with the antibody and the like. In some embodiments the heterologous molecule is not a therapeutic agent. In some embodiments the heterologous molecule does not exhibit a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect by itself.

The term monoclonal antibody refers to an antibody that is derived from a single cell clone including any eukaryotic or prokaryotic cell clone or a phage clone and not the method by which it is produced. Thus the term monoclonal antibody as used herein is not limited to antibodies produced through hybridoma technology.

The term heterologous in the context of a polypeptide means from a different source e.g. a cell tissue organism or species as compared with another polypeptide so that the two polypeptides are different. Typically a heterologous polypeptide is from a different species.

As used herein the term functional in the context of an CD70 binding agent indicates that the binding agent is 1 capable of binding to CD70 and 2 depletes or inhibits the proliferation of CD70 expressing cells without conjugation to a cytotoxic or cytostatic agent or has an immunosuppressive effect on an immune cell without conjugation to an immunomodulatory agent.

The term antibody effector function s as used herein refers to a function contributed by an Fc effector domain s of an Ig e.g. the Fc region of an immunoglobulin . Such function can be effected by for example binding of an Fc effector domain s to an Fc receptor on an immune cell with phagocytic or lytic activity or by binding of an Fc effector domain s to components of the complement system. Typically the effect s mediated by the Fc binding cells or complement components result in inhibition and or depletion of the CD70 targeted cell.

The term antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity or ADCC is a mechanism for inducing cell death that depends upon the interaction of antibody coated target cells i.e. cells with bound antibody with immune cells possessing lytic activity also referred to as effector cells . Such effector cells include natural killer cells monocytes macrophages and neutrophils. ADCC is triggered by interactions between the Fc region of an antibody bound to a tumor cell and Fc receptors particularly Fc RI and Fc RIII on immune effector cells such as neutrophils macrophages and natural killer cells. The tumor cell is eliminated by phagocytosis or lysis depending upon the type of mediating effector cell. Death of the antibody coated target cell occurs as a result of effector cell activity.

The term antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis or ADCP refers to the process by which antibody coated cells are internalized either in whole or in part by phagocytic immune cells e.g. macrophages neutrophils and dendritic cells that bind to an immunoglobulin Fc region.

The term complement dependent cytotoxicity or CDC refers to a mechanism for inducing cell death in which an Fc effector domain s of a target bound antibody activates a series of enzymatic reactions culminating in the formation of holes in the target cell membrane. Typically antigen antibody complexes such as those on antibody coated target cells bind and activate complement component C1q which in turn activates the complement cascade leading to target cell death. Activation of complement may also result in deposition of complement components on the target cell surface that facilitate ADCC by binding complement receptors e.g. CR3 on leukocytes.

The terms identical or percent identity in the context of two or more nucleic acids or polypeptide sequences refer to two or more sequences or subsequences that are the same or have a specified percentage of nucleotides or amino acid residues that are the same when compared and aligned for maximum correspondence. To determine the percent identity the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes e.g. gaps can be introduced in the sequence of a first amino acid or nucleic acid sequence for optimal alignment with a second amino or nucleic acid sequence . The amino acid residues or nucleotides at corresponding amino acid positions or nucleotide positions are then compared. When a position in the first sequence is occupied by the same amino acid residue or nucleotide as the corresponding position in the second sequence then the molecules are identical at that position. The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the sequences i.e. identity of identical positions total of positions e.g. overlapping positions 100 . In some embodiments the two sequences are the same length.

The term substantially identical in the context of two nucleic acids or polypeptides refers to two or more sequences or subsequences that have at least 50 at least 55 at least 60 or at least 65 identity typically at least 70 or at least 75 identity more typically at least 80 or at least 85 identity and even more typically at least 90 at least 95 or at least 98 identity e.g. as determined using one of the methods set forth infra .

The terms similarity or percent similarity in the context of two or more polypeptide sequences refer to two or more sequences or subsequences that have a specified percentage of amino acid residues that are the same or conservatively substituted when compared and aligned for maximum correspondence as measured using one of the methods set forth infra. By way of example a first amino acid sequence can be considered similar to a second amino acid sequence when the first amino acid sequence is at least 50 60 70 75 80 90 or 95 identical or conservatively substituted to the second amino acid sequence when compared to an equal number of amino acids as the number contained in the first sequence or when compared to an alignment of polypeptides that has been aligned by a e.g. one of the methods set forth infra.

The terms substantial similarity or substantially similar in the context of polypeptide sequences indicates that a polypeptide region has a sequence with at least 70 typically at least 80 more typically at least 85 or at least 90 or at least 95 sequence similarity to a reference sequence. For example a polypeptide is substantially similar to a second polypeptide when the two peptides differ by one or more conservative substitutions.

In the context of anti CD70 antibodies or derivatives thereof a protein that has one or more polypeptide regions substantially identical or substantially similar to one or more antigen binding regions e.g. a heavy or light chain variable region or a heavy or light chain CDR of an anti CD70 antibody retains specific binding to an epitope of CD70 recognized by the anti CD70 antibody as determined using any of various standard immunoassays known in the art or as referred to herein.

The determination of percent identity or percent similarity between two sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. A preferred non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of two sequences is the algorithm of Karlin and Altschul 199087 2264 2268 modified as in Karlin and Altschul 199390 5873 5877. Such an algorithm is incorporated into the NBLAST and XBLAST programs of Altschul et al. 1990215 403 410. BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with the NBLAST program score 100 wordlength 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to a nucleic acid encoding a protein of interest. BLAST protein searches can be performed with the XBLAST program score 50 wordlength 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to protein of interest. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described in Altschul et al. 199725 3389 3402. Alternatively PSI Blast can be used to perform an iterated search which detects distant relationships between molecules id. . When utilizing BLAST Gapped BLAST and PSI Blast programs the default parameters of the respective programs e.g. XBLAST and NBLAST can be used Another preferred non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of sequences is the algorithm of Myers and Miller CABIOS 1989 . Such an algorithm is incorporated into the ALIGN program version 2.0 which is part of the GCG sequence alignment software package. When utilizing the ALIGN program for comparing amino acid sequences a PAM120 weight residue table a gap length penalty of 12 and a gap penalty of 4 can be used. Additional algorithms for sequence analysis are known in the art and include ADVANCE and ADAM as described in Torellis and Robotti 199410 3 5 and FASTA described in Pearson and Lipman 198885 2444 8. Within FASTA ktup is a control option that sets the sensitivity and speed of the search. If ktup 2 similar regions in the two sequences being compared are found by looking at pairs of aligned residues if ktup 1 single aligned amino acids are examined. ktup can be set to 2 or 1 for protein sequences or from 1 to 6 for DNA sequences. The default if ktup is not specified is 2 for proteins and 6 for DNA.

Alternatively protein sequence alignment may be carried out using the CLUSTAL W algorithm as described by Higgins et al. 1996266 383 402.

As used herein the terms prevention or prevent refer to administration of an anti CD70 antibody or derivative or other binding agent to a subject before the onset of a clinical or diagnostic symptom of a CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder e.g. administration to an individual with a predisposition or at a high risk of acquiring the CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder to a block the occurrence or onset of the CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder or one or more of clinical or diagnostic symptoms thereof b inhibit the severity of onset of the CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder or c to lessen the likelihood of the onset of the CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder.

As used herein the terms treatment or treat refer to slowing stopping and or reversing the progression of a CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder in a subject as evidenced by a decrease or elimination of a clinical or diagnostic symptom of the disease by administration of an anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof or other binding agent to the subject after the onset of the clinical or diagnostic symptom of the CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder at any clinical stage. Treatment can include for example a decrease in the severity of a symptom the number of symptoms or frequency of relapse.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable as used herein means approved by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans. The term pharmaceutically compatible ingredient refers to a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which an anti CD70 binding agent is administered.

The term effective amount refers to the amount of the antibody or derivative or other binding agent that is sufficient to inhibit the occurrence or ameliorate one or more clinical or diagnostic symptoms of a CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder in a subject. An effective amount of an agent is administered according to the methods described herein in an effective regime. The term effective regime refers to a combination of amount of the agent and dosage frequency adequate to accomplish treatment or prevention of a CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder.

The methods and compositions described herein encompass the use of a CD70 binding agent that specifically binds to CD70 and exerts a cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory effect on CD70 expressing cancer cells or activated immune cells. The CD70 binding agent can be for example an anti CD70 antibody an antigen binding fragment of an anti CD70 antibody a derivative thereof or other CD70 binding agent. The CD70 binding agent includes an antibody effector domain function that mediates or stimulates ADCC ADCP and or CDC responses against a CD70 expressing target cell. The effector domain s can be for example an Fc region of an Ig molecule. The CD70 binding agent exerts a cytotoxic or cytostatic effect on CD70 expressing cancer cells or exerts a cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory effect on activated lymphocytes or dendritic cells for the treatment of a CD70 expressing cancer or an immunological disorder respectively. Typically the CD70 binding agent recruits and or activates cytotoxic white blood cells e.g. natural killer NK cells phagocytotic cells e.g. macrophages and or serum complement components . In some embodiments the CD70 binding agent is monoclonal antibody mAb 1F6 or 2F2 or a derivative thereof. In other embodiments the anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof competes with monoclonal antibody 1F6 or 2F2 for binding to CD70. In some embodiments the CD70 binding agent is agonistic. In some embodiments the CD70 binding agent is antagonistic. In some embodiments the CD70 binding agent blocks binding to CD27.

An anti CD70 antibody typically is or is derived from a monoclonal antibody and can include for example a chimeric e.g. having a human constant region and mouse variable region a humanized or a fully human antibody a single chain antibody a maxibody a minibody an antigen binding region or the like. The antibody molecule includes at least one effector domain that can functionally interact with and activate cytotoxic white blood cells and or serum complement components. In some embodiments a CD70 antigen binding region can be joined to an effector domain or domains such as for example hinge C2 C3 domains of an immunoglobulin or a portion or fragment of an effector domain s having effector function. Antigen binding antibody fragments including single chain antibodies can comprise for example the variable region s in combination with the entirety or a portion of an effector domain e.g. a C2 and or C3 domain alone or in combination with a C1 hinge and or CL domain . Also antigen binding fragments can comprise any combination of effector domains. In some embodiments the anti CD70 antibody can be a single chain antibody comprising a CD70 binding variable region joined to hinge C2 C3 domains.

Typically the antibodies are of human or non human origin e.g. rodent e.g. mouse or rat donkey sheep rabbit goat guinea pig camelid horse or chicken of specific Ig isotypes that can mediate effector function. As used herein human antibodies include antibodies having the amino acid sequence of a human immunoglobulin and include antibodies isolated from human immunoglobulin libraries from human B cells or from animals transgenic for one or more human immunoglobulin as described infra and for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 939 598 and 6 111 166.

The effector domain of an antibody can be from any suitable vertebrate animal species and isotypes. The isotypes from different animal species differ in the abilities to mediate effector functions. For example the ability of human immunoglobulin to mediate CDC and ADCC ADCP is generally in the order of IgM IgG1 IgG3 IgG2 IgG4 and IgG1 IgG3 IgG2 IgM IgG4 respectively. Murine immunoglobulins mediate CDC and ADCC ADCP generally in the order of murine IgM IgG3 IgG2b IgG2a IgG1 and IgG2b IgGa IgG1 IgG3 respectively. In another example murine IgG2a mediates ADCC while both murine IgG2a and IgM mediate CDC. In some embodiments the CD70 binding agent consists of antibody variable and effector domains. In other embodiments the CD70 binding agent consists essentially of antibody variable and effector domains and can further include an additional compound s that is not a therapeutic agent s . A CD70 binding polypeptide also can be expressed as a recombinant fusion protein comprising of the appropriate constant domains to yield the desired effector function s .

Upon binding to target cells the antibodies or derivatives can trigger in vitro and in vivo target cell destruction through effector domain e.g. Fc mediated effector functions. Without intending to be bound by any particular theory Fc regions of antibodies can recruit Fc receptor FcR expressing cells and juxtapose them with antibody coated target cells. Cells expressing surface FcR for IgGs including Fc RIII CD16 Fc RII CD32 and Fc RIII CD64 can act as effector cells for the destruction of IgG coated cells. Such effector cells include monocytes macrophages natural killer NK cells neutrophils and eosinophils. Engagement of Fc R by IgG activates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC or antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis ADCP . ADCC is mediated by CD16 effector cells through the secretion of membrane pore forming proteins and proteases while phagocytosis is mediated by CD32 and CD64 effector cells see 4ed. Paul ed. Lippincott Raven N.Y. 1997 Chapters 3 17 and 30 Uchida et al. 2004199 1659 69 Akewanlop et al. 200161 4061 65 Watanabe et al. 199953 199 207 . In addition to ADCC and ADCP Fc regions of cell bound antibodies can also activate the complement classical pathway to elicit complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC . C1q of the complement system binds to the Fc regions of antibodies when they are complexed with antigens. Binding of C1q to cell bound antibodies can initiate a cascade of events involving the proteolytic activation of C4 and C2 to generate the C3 convertase. Cleavage of C3 to C3b by C3 convertase enables the activation of terminal complement components including C5b C6 C7 C8 and C9. Collectively these proteins form membrane attack complex pores on the antibody coated cells. These pores disrupt the cell membrane integrity killing the target cell see 6ed. Janeway et al. Garland Science N.Y. 2005 Chapter 2 .

The antibodies can be monospecific bispecific trispecific or of greater multispecificity. Multispecific antibodies may be specific for different epitopes of CD70 and or may be specific for both CD70 as well as for a heterologous protein. See e.g. PCT Publications WO 93 17715 WO 92 08802 WO 91 00360 and WO 92 05793 Tutt et al. 1991147 60 69 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 474 893 4 714 681 4 925 648 5 573 920 and 5 601 819 Kostelny et al. 1992148 1547 1553. Multispecific antibodies including bispecific and trispecific antibodies useful for practicing the methods described herein are antibodies that immunospecifically bind to both CD70 including but not limited to antibodies that have the CDRs of the monoclonal antibodies 2F2 or 1F6 and a second cell surface receptor or receptor complex that mediates ADCC phagocytosis and or CDC such as CD16 FcgRIII CD64 FcgRI killer inhibitory or activating receptors or the complement control protein CD59. In a typical embodiment the binding of the portion of the multispecific antibody to the second cell surface molecule or receptor complex enhances the effector functions of the anti CD70 antibody or other CD70 binding agent.

In one aspect an anti CD70 antibody comprises one or more complementarity determining regions CDRs substantially identical or substantially similar to one or more CDR s of monoclonal antibody 1F6 see Table 1 . For example the antibody can include a heavy chain CDR and or a light chain CDR that is substantially identical or substantially similar to a corresponding heavy chain CDR H1 H2 or H3 regions or corresponding light chain CDR L1 L2 or L3 regions of mAb 1F6 SEQ ID NO 6 SEQ ID NO 8 SEQ ID NO 10 SEQ ID NO 16 SEQ ID NO 18 or SEQ ID NO 20 respectively . In typical embodiments the anti CD70 antibody has two or three heavy chain CDRs and or two or three light chain CDRs that are substantially identical or substantially similar to corresponding heavy and or light chain CDRs of mAb 1F6. In specific embodiments a CDR substantially identical or substantially similar to a heavy or light chain CDR of 1F6 has the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 6 SEQ ID NO 8 SEQ ID NO 10 SEQ ID NO 16 SEQ ID NO 18 or SEQ ID NO 20.

For example in some embodiments where an anti CD70 antibody has at least one heavy chain CDR substantially identical or substantially similar to a heavy chain CDR of mAb 1F6 the antibody or derivative thereof further includes at least one light chain CDR that is substantially identical or substantially similar to a light chain CDR of mAb 1F6.

In some embodiments an anti CD70 antibody includes a heavy or light chain variable domain the variable domain having a a set of three CDRs substantially identical or substantially similar to corresponding CDRs of mAb 1F6 and b a set of four framework regions. For example an anti CD70 antibody can include a heavy or light chain variable domain the variable domain having a a set of three CDRs in which the set of CDRs are from monoclonal antibody 1F6 and b a set of four framework regions of the IgG type.

In some embodiments the anti CD70 antibody is a chimeric antibody. A chimeric antibody is a molecule in which different portions of the antibody are derived from different animal species such as for example antibodies having a variable region derived from a murine monoclonal antibody and a human IgG immunoglobulin constant region. Methods for producing chimeric antibodies are known in the art. See e.g. Morrison 1985 229 1202 Oi et al. 19864 214 Gillies et al. 1989125 191 202 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 807 715 4 816 567 and 4 816 397. 

In an exemplary embodiment the anti CD70 antibody is a chimeric antibody that includes a heavy chain variable region that is substantially identical or substantially similar to the heavy chain variable region of mAb 1F6 i.e. substantially identical or substantially similar to the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 see Table 1 and or a light chain variable region that is substantially identical or substantially similar to the light chain variable regions of mAb 1F6 i.e. substantially identical or substantially similar to the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO 12 see Table 1 . For example the antibody can include a heavy chain variable region having the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 2 and optionally can further include a light chain variable region having the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 12. The heavy and light chain antibody constant regions are of the IgG type. In an exemplary embodiment the anti CD70 antibody is a chimeric IgG mAb 1F6.

In some embodiments an anti CD70 antibody is a chimeric antibody that includes one or more CDRs substantially identical or substantially similar to one or more CDR s of monoclonal antibody 2F2 see Table 1 . For example the antibody can include a heavy chain CDR and or a light chain CDR that is substantially identical or substantially similar to a corresponding heavy chain CDR H1 H2 or H3 regions or corresponding light chain CDR L1 L2 or L3 regions of mAb 2F2 SEQ ID NO 26 SEQ ID NO 28 SEQ ID NO 30 SEQ ID NO 36 SEQ ID NO 38 or SEQ ID NO 40 . In typical embodiments the anti CD70 antibody has two or three heavy chain CDRs and or two or three light chain CDRs that are substantially identical or substantially similar to corresponding heavy and or light chain CDRs of mAb 2F2. In specific embodiments a CDR substantially identical or substantially similar to a heavy or light chain CDR of 2F2 has the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 26 SEQ ID NO 28 SEQ ID NO 30 SEQ ID NO 36 SEQ ID NO 38 or SEQ ID NO 40.

For example in some embodiments where an anti CD70 antibody has at least one heavy chain CDR substantially identical or substantially similar to a heavy chain CDR of mAb 2F2 the antibody or derivative thereof further includes at least one light chain CDR that is substantially identical or substantially similar to a light chain CDR of mAb 2F2.

In some embodiments an anti CD70 antibody includes a heavy or light chain variable domain the variable domain having a a set of three CDRs substantially identical or substantially similar to corresponding CDRs of mAb 2F2 and b a set of four framework regions. For example an anti CD70 antibody can include a heavy or light chain variable domain the variable domain having a a set of three CDRs in which the set of CDRs are from monoclonal antibody 2F2 and b a set of four framework regions in which the set of framework regions are of the IgG type. In an exemplary embodiment the anti CD70 antibody is a chimeric IgG mAb 2F2.

In an embodiment the anti CD70 antibody includes a heavy chain variable region that is substantially identical or substantially similar to the heavy chain variable region of mAb 2F2 i.e. substantially identical or substantially similar to the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO 22 see Table 1 and or a light chain variable region that is substantially identical or substantially similar to the light chain variable regions of mAb 2F2 i.e. substantially identical or substantially similar to the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO 32 see Table 1 . For example the antibody can include a heavy chain variable region having the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 22 and optionally can further include a light chain variable region having the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO 32. In one exemplary embodiment the anti CD70 antibody is mAb 2F2.

Anti CD70 antibodies and derivatives thereof and other binding agents may also be described or specified in terms of their binding affinity to CD70. Typical binding affinities include those with a dissociation constant or Kd less than 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 M 10M 5 10M 10M 5 10M or 10M.

The antibodies can be generated by methods known in the art. For example monoclonal antibodies can be prepared using a wide variety of techniques including e.g. the use of hybridoma recombinant and phage display technologies or a combination thereof. Hybridoma techniques are generally discussed in for example Harlow et al. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 2nd ed. 1988 and Hammerling et al. In pp. 563 681 Elsevier N.Y. 1981 . Examples of phage display methods that can be used to make the anti CD70 antibodies include e.g. those disclosed in Hoogenboom and Winter 1991227 381 Marks et al. 1991222 581 Quan and Carter 2002 Jardieu and Fick Jr. eds. Marcel Dekker New York N.Y. Chapter 20 pp. 427 469 Brinkman et al. 1995182 41 50 Ames et al. 1995184 177 186 Kettleborough et al. 199424 952 958 Persic et al. 1997187 9 18 Burton et al. 199457 191 280 PCT Application No. PCT GB91 01134 PCT Publications WO 90 02809 WO 91 10737 WO 92 01047 WO 92 18619 WO 93 11236 WO 95 15982 WO 95 20401 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 698 426 5 223 409 5 403 484 5 580 717 5 427 908 5 750 753 5 821 047 5 571 698 5 427 908 5 516 637 5 780 225 5 658 727 5 733 743 and 5 969 108 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein .

Examples of techniques that can be used to produce single chain antibodies include those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 946 778 and 5 258 498 Huston et al. 1991203 46 88 Shu et al. 199390 7995 7999 and Skerra et al. 1988240 1038 1040.

Methods for making bispecific antibodies are known in the art. Traditional production of full length bispecific antibodies is based on the coexpression of two immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pairs where the two chains have different specificities see e.g. Milstein et al. 1983 Nature 305 537 39 . Because of the random assortment of immunoglobulin heavy and light chains these hybridomas quadromas produce a potential mixture of 10 different antibody molecules of which only one has the correct bispecific structure. Similar procedures are disclosed in International Publication No. WO 93 08829 and in Traunecker et al. 1991 EMBO J. 10 3655 59.

According to a different approach antibody variable domains with the desired binding specificities antibody antigen combining sites are fused to immunoglobulin constant domain sequences. The fusion preferably is with an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domain comprising at least part of the hinge C2 and C3 regions. In some embodiments the fusion includes a first heavy chain constant region C1 containing the site necessary for light chain binding present in at least one of the fusions. Nucleic acids with sequences encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain fusions and if desired the immunoglobulin light chain are inserted into separate expression vectors and are co transfected into a suitable host organism. This provides for great flexibility in adjusting the mutual proportions of the three polypeptide fragments in embodiments when unequal ratios of the three polypeptide chains used in the construction provide the optimum yields. It is however possible to insert the coding sequences for two or all three polypeptide chains in one expression vector when the expression of at least two polypeptide chains in equal ratios results in high yields or when the ratios are of no particular significance.

In an embodiment of this approach the bispecific antibodies have a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain with a first binding specificity in one arm and a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pair providing a second binding specificity in the other arm. This asymmetric structure facilitates the separation of the desired bispecific compound from unwanted immunoglobulin chain combinations as the presence of an immunoglobulin light chain in only one half of the bispecific molecule provides for a facile way of separation see e.g. International Publication No. WO 94 04690 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

For further discussion of bispecific antibodies see for example Suresh et al. 1986121 210 Rodrigues et al. 1993151 6954 61 Carter et al. 199210 163 67 Carter et al. 19954 463 70 Merchant et al. 199816 677 81. Using such techniques bispecific antibodies can be prepared for use in the treatment or prevention of disease as defined herein.

Bifunctional antibodies are also described in European Patent Publication No. EPA 0 105 360. As disclosed in this reference hybrid or bifunctional antibodies can be derived either biologically i.e. by cell fusion techniques or chemically especially with cross linking agents or disulfide bridge forming reagents and may comprise whole antibodies or fragments thereof. Methods for obtaining such hybrid antibodies are disclosed for example in International Publication WO 83 03679 and European Patent Publication No. EPA 0 217 577 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

An anti CD70 antibody can also be a humanized antibody. Humanized antibodies are antibody molecules that bind the desired antigen and have one or more CDRs from a non human species and framework and constant regions from a human immunoglobulin molecule. Often framework residues in the human framework regions will be substituted with the corresponding residue from the CDR donor antibody to alter preferably improve antigen binding. These framework substitutions are identified by methods well known in the art e.g. by modeling of the interactions of the CDR and framework residues to identify framework residues important for antigen binding and sequence comparison to identify unusual framework residues at particular positions. See e.g. Queen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 Riechmann et al. 1988332 323. Antibodies can be humanized using a variety of techniques known in the art including for example CDR grafting see e.g. EP 0 239 400 PCT publication WO 91 09967 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 225 539 5 530 101 and 5 585 089 veneering or resurfacing see e.g. EP 0 592 106 EP 0 519 596 Padlan 1991 28 4 5 489 498 Studnicka et al. 19947 6 805 814 Roguska et al. 199491 969 973 and chain shuffling see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 565 332 all of these references are incorporated by reference herein .

Humanized monoclonal antibodies also can be produced by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art for example using methods described in International Publication No. WO 87 02671 European Patent Publication No. 0 184 187 European Patent Publication No. 0 171 496 European Patent Publication No. 0 173 494 International Publication No. WO 86 01533 U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 European Patent Publication No. 0 012 023 Berter et al. 1988240 1041 43 Liu et al. 198784 3439 43 Liu et al. 1987139 3521 26 Sun et al. 198784 214 18 Nishimura et al. 198747 999 1005 Wood et al. 1985314 446 449 and Shaw et al. 198880 1553 59 Morrison 1985229 1202 07 Oi et al. 19864 214 U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 Jones et al. 1986321 552 25 Verhoeyan et al. 1988239 1534 and Beidler et al. 1988141 4053 60 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In some embodiments the antibody is a humanized 1F6 or 2F2 antibody as disclosed in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 673 070 filed Apr. 19 2005 and PCT International Publication No. WO 2006 113909 the disclosures of which is incorporated by reference herein.

In some embodiments the anti CD70 antibody is a human IgG antibody. Human antibodies can be made by a variety of methods known in the art including e.g. phage display methods see supra using antibody libraries derived from human immunoglobulin sequences. See also e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 444 887 and 4 716 111 and PCT Publications WO 98 46645 WO 98 50433 WO 98 24893 WO 98 16654 WO 96 34096 WO 96 33735 and WO 91 10741 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein . In addition a human antibody recognizing a selected epitope can be generated using a technique referred to as guided selection in which a selected non human monoclonal antibody e.g. a mouse antibody is used to guide the selection of a completely human antibody recognizing the same epitope see e.g. Jespers et al. 199412 899 903 . Human antibodies can also be produced using transgenic mice that express human immunoglobulin genes. Monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen can be obtained from the immunized transgenic mice using conventional hybridoma technology. For an overview of this technology for producing human antibodies see Lonberg and Huszar 199513 65 93. For a detailed discussion of this technology for producing human antibodies and human monoclonal antibodies and protocols for producing such antibodies see e.g. PCT Publications WO 98 24893 WO 92 01047 WO 96 34096 and WO 96 33735 European Patent No. 0 598 877 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 413 923 5 625 126 5 633 425 5 569 825 5 661 016 5 545 806 5 814 318 5 885 793 5 916 771 and 5 939 598 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein .

In addition companies such as Abgenix Inc. now Amgen Fremont Calif. Genpharm San Jose Calif. and Medarex Princeton N.J. can be engaged to provide human antibodies directed against a selected antigen using technology similar to that described above. Completely human antibodies can be produced using transgenic mice that are incapable of expressing endogenous immunoglobulin heavy and light chains genes but which can express human heavy and light chain genes. The transgenic mice are immunized in the normal fashion with a selected antigen e.g. all or a portion of a polypeptide of the invention. Monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen can be obtained using conventional hybridoma technology. The human immunoglobulin transgenes harbored by the transgenic mice rearrange during B cell differentiation and subsequently undergo class switching and somatic mutation. Thus using such a technique it is possible to produce therapeutically useful IgG IgA IgM and IgE antibodies. For an overview of this technology for producing human antibodies see Lonberg and Huszar 199513 65 93 . For a detailed discussion of this technology for producing human antibodies and human monoclonal antibodies and protocols for producing such antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 625 126 5 633 425 5 569 825 5 661 016 5 545 806 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. 

As set forth supra a CD70 binding agent can be a derivative of an anti CD70 antibody. Generally an anti CD70 antibody derivative comprises an anti CD70 antibody including e.g. an antigen binding fragment or conservatively substituted polypeptides and at least one polypeptide region or other moiety heterologous to the anti CD70 antibody. For example an anti CD70 antibody can be modified e.g. by the covalent attachment of any type of molecule such that covalent attachment does not prevent the antibody derivative from specifically binding to CD70 via the antigen binding region or region derived therefrom or the effector domains s from specifically binding Fc receptor. Typical modifications include e.g. glycosylation acetylation pegylation phosphorylation amidation derivatization by known protecting blocking groups proteolytic cleavage linkage to a cellular ligand or other protein and the like. Any of numerous chemical modifications may be carried out by known techniques including but not limited to specific chemical cleavage acetylation formylation metabolic synthesis in the presence of tunicamycin etc.

In some embodiments the antibody derivative is a multimer such as for example a dimer comprising one or more monomers where each monomer includes i an antigen binding region of an anti CD70 antibody or a polypeptide region derived therefrom such as e.g. by conservative substitution of one or more amino acids and ii a multimerizing e.g. dimerizing polypeptide region such that the antibody derivative forms multimers e.g. homodimers that specifically bind to CD70. In typical embodiments an antigen binding region of an anti CD70 antibody or a polypeptide region derived therefrom is recombinantly or chemically fused with a heterologous protein wherein the heterologous protein comprises a dimerization or multimerization domain. Prior to administration of the antibody derivative to a subject for the purpose of treating or preventing immunological disorders or CD70 expressing cancers the derivative is subjected to conditions that allow formation of a homodimer or heterodimer. A heterodimer as used herein may comprise identical dimerization domains but different CD70 antigen binding regions identical CD70 antigen binding regions but different dimerization domains or different CD70 antigen binding regions and dimerization domains.

Typical dimerization domains are those that originate from transcription factors. In one embodiment the dimerization domain is that of a basic region leucine zipper bZIP see Vinson et al. 1989246 911 916 . Useful leucine zipper domains include for example those of the yeast transcription factor GCN4 the mammalian transcription factor CCAAT enhancer binding protein C EBP and the nuclear transform in oncogene products Fos and Jun. See Landschultz et al. 1988240 1759 64 Baxevanis and Vinson 19933 278 285 O Shea et al. 1989243 538 542. In another embodiment the dimerization domain is that of a basic region helix loop helix bHLH protein. See Murre et al. 198956 777 783. See also Davis et al. 199060 733 746 Voronova and Baltimore 199087 4722 26. Particularly useful hHLH proteins are myc max and mac.

In yet other embodiments the dimerization domain is an immunoglobulin constant region such as for example a heavy chain constant region or a domain thereof e.g. a C1 domain a C2 domain and or a C3 domain . See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 155 027 5 336 603 5 359 046 and 5 349 053 EP 0 367 166 WO 96 04388. 

Heterodimers are known to form between Fos and Jun Bohmann et al. 1987238 1386 1392 among members of the ATF CREB family Hai et al. 19893 2083 2090 among members of the C EBP family Cao et al. 19915 1538 52 Williams et al. 19915 1553 67 Roman et al. 19904 1404 15 and between members of the ATF CREB and Fos Jun families Hai and Curran 199188 3720 24 . Therefore when a CD70 binding protein is administered to a subject as a heterodimer comprising different dimerization domains any combination of the foregoing may be used.

In other embodiments an anti CD70 antibody derivative is an anti CD70 antibody conjugated to a second antibody an antibody heteroconjugate see U.S. Pat. No. 4 676 980 . Heteroconjugates useful for practicing the present methods comprise an antibody that binds to CD70 e.g. an antibody that has the CDRs and or heavy chains of the monoclonal antibodies 2F2 or 1F6 and an antibody that binds to a surface receptor or receptor complex such as CD16 FcgRIII CD64 FcgRI killer cell activating or inhibitory receptors or the complement control protein CD59. In a typical embodiment the binding of the portion of the multispecific antibody to the second cell surface molecule or receptor complex enhances the effector functions of an anti CD70 antibody.

In some embodiments the anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof competitively inhibits binding of mAb 1F6 or 2F2 to CD70 as determined by any method known in the art for determining competitive binding such as e.g. the immunoassays described herein . In typical embodiments the antibody competitively inhibits binding of 1F6 or 2F2 to CD70 by at least 50 at least 60 at least 70 or at least 75 . In other embodiments the antibody competitively inhibits binding of 1F6 or 2F2 to CD70 by at least 80 at least 85 at least 90 or at least 95 .

Antibodies can be assayed for specific binding to CD70 by any of various known methods. Immunoassays which can be used include for example competitive and non competitive assay systems using techniques such as Western blots radioimmunoassays ELISA enzyme linked immunosorbent assay sandwich immunoassays immunoprecipitation assays precipitin reactions gel diffusion precipitin reactions immunodiffusion assays agglutination assays complement fixation assays immunoradiometric assays fluorescent immunoassays and protein A immunoassays. Such assays are routine and well known in the art. See e.g. Ausubel et al. eds. John Wiley and Sons Inc. New York 4th ed. 1999 Harlow and Lane Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 1999. 

Further the binding affinity of an antibody to CD70 and the off rate of an antibody CD70 interaction can be determined by competitive binding assays. One example of a competitive binding assay is a radioimmunoassay comprising the incubation of labeled CD70 e.g. H or I with the antibody of interest in the presence of increasing amounts of unlabeled CD70 and the detection of the antibody bound to the labeled CD70. The affinity of the antibody for CD70 and the binding off rates can then be determined from the data by Scatchard plot analysis. Competition with a second antibody such as e.g. mAb 1F6 or 2F2 can also be determined using radioimmunoassays. For example CD70 is incubated with the antibody of interest conjugated to a labeled compound e.g. H or I in the presence of increasing amounts of an unlabeled second antibody. Alternatively the binding affinity of an antibody to CD70 and the on and off rates of an antibody CD70 interaction can be determined by surface plasmon resonance. In some embodiments the anti CD70 antibodies or derivatives thereof can be targeted to and accumulate on the membrane of a CD70 expressing cell.

The anti CD70 antibodies and derivatives thereof that are useful in the present methods can be produced by methods known in the art for the synthesis of proteins typically e.g. by recombinant expression techniques. Recombinant expression of an antibody or derivative thereof that binds to CD70 and depletes or inhibits the proliferation of CD70 expressing cells requires construction of an expression vector containing a nucleic acid that encodes the antibody or derivative thereof. A vector for the production of the protein molecule may be produced by recombinant DNA technology using techniques known in the art. Standard techniques such as for example those described in Sambrook and Russell Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 3rd ed. 2001 Sambrook et al. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 2nd ed. 1989 Ausubel et al. John Wiley and Sons New York 4th ed. 1999 and Glick and Pasternak ASM Press Washington D.C. 2nd ed. 1998 can be used for recombinant nucleic acid methods nucleic acid synthesis cell culture transgene incorporation and recombinant protein expression.

For example for recombinant expression of an anti CD70 antibody an expression vector may encode a heavy or light chain thereof or a heavy or light chain variable domain operably linked to a promoter. An expression vector may include for example the nucleotide sequence encoding the constant region of the antibody molecule see e.g. PCT Publication WO 86 05807 PCT Publication WO 89 01036 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 122 464 and the variable domain of the antibody may be cloned into such a vector for expression of the entire heavy or light chain. The expression vector is transferred to a host cell by conventional techniques and the transfected cells are then cultured by conventional techniques to produce the anti CD70 antibody. In typical embodiments for the expression of double chain antibodies vectors encoding both the heavy and light chains can be co expressed in the host cell for expression of the entire immunoglobulin molecule.

A variety of prokaryotic and eukaryotic host expression vector systems can be utilized to express an anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof. Typically eukaryotic cells particularly for whole recombinant anti CD70 antibody molecules are used for the expression of the recombinant protein. For example mammalian cells such as Chinese hamster ovary cells CHO in conjunction with a vector such as the major intermediate early gene promoter element from human cytomegalovirus is an effective expression system for the production of anti CD70 antibodies and derivatives thereof see e.g. Foecking et al. 198645 101 Cockett et al. 19908 2 .

Other host expression systems include for example plasmid based expression systems in bacterial cells see e.g. Ruther et al. 19831 2 1791 Inouye and Inouye 198513 3101 3109 Van Heeke and Schuster 198924 5503 5509 insect systems such as e.g. the use of nuclear polyhedrosis virus AcNPV expression vector in cells and viral based expression systems in mammalian cells such as e.g. adenoviral based systems see e.g. Logan and Shenk 198481 355 359 Bittner et al. 1987153 51 544 .

In addition a host cell strain can be chosen that modulates the expression of the inserted sequences or modifies and processes the gene product in the specific fashion desired. Appropriate cell lines or host systems can be chosen to ensure the correct modification and processing e.g. glycosylation phosphorylation and cleavage of the protein expressed. To this end eukaryotic host cells which possess the cellular machinery for proper processing of the primary transcript and gene product can be used. Such mammalian host cells include for example CHO VERO BHK HeLa COS MDCK 293 3T3 and W138.

A stable expression system is typically used for long term high yield production of recombinant anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof. For example cell lines that stably express the anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof can be engineered by transformation of host cells with DNA controlled by appropriate expression control elements e.g. promoter enhancer sequences transcription terminators polyadenylation sites and a selectable marker followed by growth of the transformed cells in a selective media. The selectable marker confers resistance to the selection and allows cells to stably integrate the DNA into their chromosomes and grow to form foci which in turn can be cloned and expanded into cell lines. A number of selection systems can be used including for example the herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase hypoxanthineguanine phosphoribosyltransferase and adenine phosphoribosyltransferase genes which can be employed in tk hgprt or aprt cells respectively. Also antimetabolite resistance can be used as the basis of selection for the following genes dhfr which confers resistance to methotrexate gpt which confers resistance to mycophenolic acid neo which confers resistance to the aminoglycoside G 418 and hygro which confers resistance to hygromycin. Methods commonly known in the art of recombinant DNA technology can be routinely applied to select the desired recombinant clone and such methods are described for example in Ausubel et al. eds. John Wiley and Sons N.Y. 1993 Kriegler Stockton Press N.Y. 1990 Dracopoli et al. eds. John Wiley and Sons N.Y. 1994 Chapters 12 and 13 and Colberre Garapin et al. 1981150 1.

The expression levels of an antibody or derivative can be increased by vector amplification. See generally e.g. Bebbington and Hentschel 3 Academic Press New York 1987 . When a marker in the vector system expressing an anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof is amplifiable an increase in the level of inhibitor present in host cell culture media will select host cells that have increased copy number of a marker gene conferring resistance to the inhibitor. The copy number of an associated antibody gene will also be increased thereby increasing expression of the antibody or derivative thereof see Crouse et al. 19833 257 . Expression levels can also be increased by optimizating the vector and in particular the nucleic acids encoding the antibody or derivative for the host organism e.g. by modifying the codon usage CpG content and the like .

Where the anti CD70 antibody comprises both a heavy and a light chain or derivatives thereof the host cell may be co transfected with two expression vectors the first vector encoding the heavy chain protein and the second vector encoding the light chain protein. The two vectors may contain identical selectable markers which enable equal expression of heavy and light chain proteins. Alternatively a single vector may be used which encodes and is capable of expressing both heavy and light chain proteins. In such situations the light chain is typically placed before the heavy chain to avoid an excess of toxic free heavy chain see Proudfoot 1986322 52 Kohler 198077 2197 . The coding sequences for the heavy and light chains may comprise cDNA or genomic DNA.

Once an anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof has been produced e.g. by an animal chemical synthesis or recombinant expression it can be purified by any suitable method for purification of proteins including for example by chromatography e.g. ion exchange or affinity chromatography such as for example Protein A chromatography for purification of antibodies having an intact Fc region centrifugation differential solubility or by any other standard technique for the purification of proteins. An anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof can for example be fused to a marker sequence such as a peptide to facilitate purification by affinity chromatography. Suitable marker amino acid sequences include e.g. a hexa histidine peptide such as the tag provided in a pQE vector QIAGEN Inc. Chatsworth Calif. 91311 and the HA tag which corresponds to an epitope derived from the influenza hemagglutinin protein Wilson et al. 198437 767 and the flag tag.

Once an anti CD70 antibody or derivative thereof is produced its ability to exert a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on CD70 expressing cancer cells or an immunomodulatory effect on a CD70 expressing immune cell is determined by the methods described infra or as known in the art.

To minimize activity of the anti CD70 antibody outside the activated immune cells or CD70 expressing cancer cells an antibody that specifically binds to cell membrane bound CD70 but not to soluble CD70 can be used so that the anti CD70 antibody is concentrated at the cell surface of the activated immune cell or CD70 expressing cancer cell.

Typically the anti CD70 antibody or derivative is substantially purified e.g. substantially free from substances that limit its effect or produce undesired side effects . In some embodiments the anti CD70 antibody or derivative is at least about 40 pure at least about 50 pure or at least about 60 pure. In some embodiments the anti CD70 antibody or derivative is at least about 60 65 65 70 70 75 75 80 80 85 85 90 90 95 or 95 98 pure. In some embodiments the anti CD70 antibody or derivative is approximately 99 pure.

Further CD70 binding agents include fusion proteins i.e. proteins that are recombinantly fused or chemically conjugated including both covalent and non covalent conjugation to heterologous proteins of typically at least 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or at least 100 amino acids . Such CD70 binding agents include a portion that binds to CD70 and an immunoglobulin effector domain or a functional equivalent thereof. As used herein a functional equivalent of immunoglobulin effector domain binds to an Fc receptor on an immune cell with phagocytic or lytic activity or by binding of an Fc effector domain s to components of the complement system. The fusion protein does not necessarily need to be direct but may occur through linker sequences.

For example a CD70 binding agent can be produced recombinantly by fusing the coding region of one or more of the CDRs of an anti CD70 antibody in frame with a sequence coding for a heterologous protein. The heterologous protein includes an effector domain or a functional equivalent thereof and may provide one or more of the following characteristics promote stable expression provide a means of facilitating high yield recombinant expression and or provide a multimerization domain.

In some embodiments the CD70 binding agent can include one or more CDRs from an antibody that binds to CD70 and depletes or inhibits the proliferation of CD70 expressing cells alone without conjugation to a cytotoxic agent.

In an aspect a CD70 binding agent can include CD27 and variants or fragments thereof that bind to CD70. CD70 binding agent can further include peptides ligands and other molecules that specifically bind to CD70.

A CD70 binding agent can be identified using any method suitable for screening for protein protein interactions. Typically proteins are initially identified by their ability to specifically bind to CD70. The ability of such a binding protein to exert a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on activated lymphocytes or CD70 expressing cancer cells by recruiting and activating cytotoxic white blood cells e.g. natural killer NK cells phagocytotic cells e.g. macrophages and serum complement components without conjugation to a cytotoxic or cytostatic agent or an immunomodulatory effect on an immune cell by themselves without conjugation to an immunomodulatory agent can be determined. Among the traditional methods which can be employed are interaction cloning techniques which entail probing expression libraries with labeled CD70 in a manner similar to the technique of antibody probing of gt11 libraries. By way of example and not limitation this can be achieved as follows a cDNA clone encoding CD70 or a 1F6 or 2F2 binding domain thereof can be modified at the C terminus by inserting the phosphorylation site for the heart muscle kinase HMK see e.g. Blanar and Rutter 1992256 1014 18 . The recombinant protein is expressed in and purified on a GDP affinity column to homogeneity Edery et al. 198874 517 25 and labeled using P ATP and bovine heart muscle kinase Sigma to a specific activity of 1 10cpm g and used to screen a human placenta gt11 cDNA library in a far Western assay Blanar and Rutter 1992256 1014 18 . Plaques which interact with the CD70 probe are isolated. The cDNA inserts of positive plaques are released and subcloned into a vector suitable for sequencing such as pBluescript KS Stratagene La Jolla Calif. .

One method which detects protein interactions in vivo is the two hybrid system. One version of this system has been described Chien et al. 199188 9578 82 and is commercially available from Clontech Palo Alto Calif. .

Once a CD70 binding protein is identified its ability alone or when multimerized or fused to a dimerization or multimerization domain to exert a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on CD70 expressing cancer cells or an immunomodulatory effect on a CD70 expressing immune cell can be determined by the methods described infra.

In some embodiments the effector function of a CD70 binding agent can be augmented by improving its effector functions using one or more antibody engineering approaches known in the art. Illustrative non limiting examples for such approaches are provided below.

ADCC and ADCP are mediated through the interaction of cell bound antibodies with Fc receptors Fc R expressed on effector cells. Both the glycosylation status and primary amino acid sequence of the IgG Fc region have functional effects on the Fc Fc R interaction. A stronger Fc Fc R interaction is associated with better target cell killing by effector cells.

Oligosaccharides covalently attached to the conserved Asn297 are required for the Fc region of an IgG to bind Fc R Lund et al. 1996157 4963 69 Wright and Morrison 199715 26 31 . Engineering of this glycoform on IgG can significantly improve IgG mediated ADCC. Addition of bisecting N acetylglucosamine modifications Umana et al. 199917 176 180 Davies et al. 200174 288 94 to this glycoform or removal of fucose Shields et al. 2002277 26733 40 Shinkawa et al. 2003278 6591 604 Niwa et al. 200464 2127 33 from this glycoform are two examples of IgG Fc engineering that improves the binding between IgG Fc and Fc R thereby enhancing Ig mediated ADCC activity.

A systemic substitution of solvent exposed amino acids of human IgG1 Fc region has generated IgG variants with altered Fc R binding affinities Shields et al. 2001276 6591 604 . When compared to parental IgG1 a subset of these variants involving substitutions at Thr256 Ser298 Ser298 Glu333 Ser298 Lys334 or Ser298 Glu333 Lys334 to Ala demonstrate increased in both binding affinity toward Fc R and ADCC activity Shields et al. 2001276 6591 604 Okazaki et al. 2004336 1239 49 .

Antibody mediated CDC begins with the binding of C1q to cell bound IgG molecules. Specific amino acid residues on human IgG1 responsible for C1q binding and species specific differences of C1q binding have been reported Idusogie et al. 2000164 4178 4184 . Complement fixation activity of antibodies have been improved by substitutions at Lys326 and Glu333 for e.g. such substitutions can improve both C1q binding and CDC activity of the human IgG1 antibody rituximab Idusogie et al. 2001166 2571 2575 . The same substitutions on a human IgG2 backbone can convert an antibody isotype that binds poorly to C1q and is severely deficient in complement activation activity to one that can both bind C1q and mediate CDC Idusogie et al. 2001166 2571 75 . Several other methods have also been applied to improve complement fixation activity of antibodies. For example the grafting of an 18 amino acid carboxyl terminal tail piece of IgM to the carboxyl termini of IgG greatly enhances their CDC activity. This is observed even with IgG4 which normally has no detectable CDC activity Smith et al. 1995154 2226 36 . Also substituting Ser444 located close to the carboxy terminal of IgG1 heavy chain with Cys induced tail to tail dimerization of IgG1 with a 200 fold increase of CDC activity over monomeric IgG1 Shopes et al. 1992148 2918 22 . In addition a bispecific diabody construct with specificity for C1q also confers CDC activity Kontermann et al. 199715 629 31 .

The in vivo half life of an antibody can also impact on its effector functions. In some embodiments it is desirable to increase or decrease the half life of an antibody to modify its therapeutic activities. FcRn is a receptor that is structurally similar to MHC Class I antigen that non covalently associates with 2 microglobulin. FcRn regulates the catabolism of IgGs and their transcytosis across tissues Ghetie and Ward 200018 739 766 Ghetie and Ward 200225 97 113 . The IgG FcRn interaction takes place at pH 6.0 pH of intracellular vesicles but not at pH 7.4 pH of blood this interaction enables IgGs to be recycled back to the circulation Ghetie and Ward 200018 739 766 Ghetie and Ward 200225 97 113 . The region on human IgG1 involved in FcRn binding has been mapped Shields et al. 2001276 6591 604 . Alanine substitutions at positions Pro238 Thr256 Thr307 Gln311 Asp312 Glu380 Glu382 or Asn434 of human IgG1 enhance FcRn binding Shields et al. 2001276 6591 604 . IgG1 molecules harboring these substitutions are expected to have longer serum half lives. Consequently these modified IgG1 molecules may be able to carry out their effector functions and hence exert their therapeutic efficacies over a longer period of time compared to unmodified IgG1.

Methods of determining whether an antibody mediates effector function against a target cell are known. Illustrative examples of such methods are described infra.

For determining whether an anti CD70 antibody or derivative mediates antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity against activated immune cells or CD70 expressing cancer cells an assay that measures target cell death in the presence of antibody and effector immune cells may be used. An assay used to measure this type of cytotoxicity can be based on determination of Cr release from metabolically labeled targets cells after incubation in the presence of effector cells and target specific antibody see e.g. Perussia and Loza 2000121 179 92 and Cr Release Assay of Antibody Dependent Cell Mediated Cytotoxicity ADCC in Coligan et al. eds. Wileyand Sons 1993 . For example activated immune cells e.g. activated lymphocytes or CD70 expressing cancer cells labeled with NaCrOand plated at a density of 5 000 cells per well of a 96 well plate can be treated with varying concentrations of anti CD70 antibody for 30 minutes and then mixed with normal human peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC for 4 hours. The membrane disruption that accompanies target cell death releases Cr into the culture supernatant which may be collected and assessed for radioactivity as a measure of cytotoxic activity. Other assays to measure ADCC may involve nonradioactive labels or be based on induced release of specific enzymes. For example a non radioactive assay based on time resolved fluorometry is commercially available Delphia Perkin Elmer . This assay is based on loading target cells with an acetoxymethyl ester of fluorescence enhancing ligand BATDA that penetrates the cell membrane then hydrolyses to form a membrane impermeable hydrophilic ligand TDA . When mixed with target specific antibody and PBMC effector cells TDA is released from lysed cells and is available to form a highly fluorescent chelate when mixed with Europium. The signal measured with a time resolved fluorometer correlates with the amount of cell lysis.

To determine whether an anti CD70 antibody or derivative mediates antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis against activated immune cells or CD70 expressing cancer cells an assay that measures target cell internalization by effector immune cells e.g. fresh cultured macrophages or established macrophage like cell line may be used see e.g. Munn and Cheung 1990172 231 37 Keler et al. 2000164 5746 52 Akewanlop et al. 200161 4061 65 . For example target cells may be labeled with a lipophilic membrane dye such as PKH67 Sigma coated with target specific antibody and mixed with effector immune cells for 4 24 hours. The effector cells may then be identified by counterstaining with a fluorochrome labeled antibody specific for a phagocytic cell surface marker e.g. CD14 and the cells analyzed by two color flow cytometry or fluorescence microscopy. Dual positive cells represent effector cells that have internalized target cells. For these assays effector cells may be monocytes derived from PBMC that have been differentiated into macrophages by culture for 5 10 days with M CSF or GM CSF see e.g. Munn and Cheung supra . Human macrophage like cell lines U937 Larrick et al. 1980125 6 12 or THP 1 Tsuchiya et al. 198026 171 76 which are available from ATCC may be used as an alternative phagocytic cell source.

Methods of determining whether an antibody mediates complement dependent cytotoxicity upon binding to target cells are also known. The same methods can be applied to determine whether a CD70 binding agent mediates CDC activated immune cells or CD70 expressing cancer cells. Illustrative examples of such methods are described infra.

The source of active complement can either be normal human serum or purified from laboratory animal including rabbits. In a standard assay a CD70 binding agent is incubated with CD70 expressing activated immune cells e.g. activated lymphocytes or CD70 expressing cancer cells in the presence of complement. The ability of such CD70 binding agent to mediate cell lysis can be determined by several readouts. In one example a NaCrOrelease assay is used. In this assay target cells are labeled with NaCrO. Unincorporated NaCrOis washed off and cells are plated at a suitable density typically between 5 000 to 50 000 cells well in a 96 well plate. Incubation with the CD70 binding agent in the presence of normal serum or purified complement typically last for 2 6 hours at 37 C. in a 5 COatmosphere. Released radioactivity indicating cell lysis is determined in an aliquot of the culture supernatant by gamma ray counting. Maximum cell lysis is determined by releasing incorporated NaCrOby detergent 0.5 1 NP 40 or Triton X 100 treatment. Spontaneous background cell lysis is determined in wells where only complement is present without any CD70 binding agents. Percentage cell lysis is calculated as CD70 binding agent induced lysis spontaneous lysis maximum cell lysis. The second readout is a reduction of metabolic dyes e.g. Alamar Blue by viable cells. In this assay target cells are incubated with CD70 binding agent and with complement and incubated as described above. At the end of incubation 1 10 volume of Alamar Blue Biosource International Camarillo Calif. is added. Incubation is continued for up to 16 hours at 37 C. in a 5 COatmosphere. Reduction of Alamar Blue as an indication of metabolically active viable cells is determined by fluorometric analysis with excitation at 530 nm and emission at 590 nm. The third readout is cellular membrane permeability to propidium iodide PI . Formation of pores in the plasma membrane as a result of complement activation facilitates entry of PI into cells where it will diffuse into the nuclei and bind DNA. Upon binding to DNA PI fluorescence in the 600 nm significantly increases. Treatment of target cells with CD70 binding agent and complement is carried out as described above. At end of incubation PI is added to a final concentration of 5 g ml. The cell suspension is then examined by flow cytometry using a 488 nm argon laser for excitation. Lysed cells are detected by fluorescence emission at 600 nm.

The anti CD70 antibodies or derivatives can be tested or validated in animal models of immunological disorders or CD70 expressing cancers. A number of established animal models of immunological disorders or CD70 expressing cancers are known to the skilled artisan any of which can be used to assay the efficacy of the anti CD70 antibody or derivative. Non limiting examples of such models are described infra.

Examples for animal models of systemic and organ specific autoimmune diseases including diabetes lupus systemic sclerosis Sj gren s Syndrome experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis multiple sclerosis thyroiditis myasthenia gravis arthritis uveitis inflammatory bowel disease have been described by Bigazzi Animal Models of Autoimmunity Spontaneous and Induced in Rose and Mackay eds. Academic Press 1998 in Animal Models for Autoimmune and Inflammatory Disease in Coligan et al. eds. Wiley and Sons 1997 and Peng Experimental Use of Murine Lupus Models in Vol. 102 Perl ed. Humana Press Inc. .

Allergic conditions e.g. asthma and dermatitis can also be modeled in rodents. Airway hypersensitivity can be induced in mice by ovalbumin Tomkinson et al. 2001166 5792 800 or egg antigen Tesciuba et al. 2001167 1996 2003 . The Nc Nga strain of mice show marked increase in serum IgE and spontaneously develop atopic dermatitis like lesions Vestergaard et al. 20006 209 10 Watanabe et al. 19979 461 66 Saskawa et al. 2001126 239 47 .

Injection of immuno competent donor lymphocytes into a lethally irradiated histo incompatible host is a classical approach to induce GVHD in mice. Alternatively the parent B6D2F1 murine model provides a system to induce both acute and chronic GVHD. In this model the B6D2F1 mice are F1 progeny from a cross between the parental strains of C57BL 6 and DBA 2 mice. Transfer of DBA 2 lymphoid cells into non irradiated B6D2F1 mice causes chronic GVHD whereas transfer of C57BL 6 C57BL 10 or B10.D2 lymphoid cells causes acute GVHD Slayback et al. 200026 931 938 Kataoka et al. 2001103 310 318 .

Additionally both human hematopoietic stem cells and mature peripheral blood lymphoid cells can be engrafted into SCID mice and these human lympho hematopoietic cells remain functional in the SCID mice McCune et al. 1988241 1632 1639 Kamel Reid and Dick 1988242 1706 1709 Mosier et al. 1988335 256 259 . This has provided a small animal model system for the direct testing of potential therapeutic agents on human lymphoid cells. See e.g. Tournoy et al. 2001166 6982 6991. 

Moreover small animal models to examine the in vivo efficacies of the anti CD70 antibodies or derivatives can be created by implanting CD70 expressing human tumor cell lines into appropriate immunodeficient rodent strains e.g. athymic nude mice or SCID mice. Examples of CD70 expressing human lymphoma cell lines include for example Daudi Ghetie et al. 199483 1329 36 Ghetie et al. 199015 481 85 de Mont et al. 200161 7654 59 HS Sultan Cattan and Maung 199638 548 52 Cattan and Douglas 199418 513 22 and Raji Ochakovskaya et al. 20017 1505 10 Breisto et al. 199959 2944 49 . A non limiting example of a CD70 expressing Hodgkin s lymphoma line is L428 Drexler H. G. 19939 1 25 Dewan et al. 200596 466 473 . Non limiting examples of CD70 expressing human renal cell carcinoma cell lines include 786 0 Ananth et al. 199959 2210 16 Datta et al. 200161 1768 75 ACHN Hara et al. 2001166 2491 94 Miyake et al. 2002167 2203 08 Caki 1 Prewett et al. 19984 2957 66 Shi and Siemann 200287 119 26 and Caki 2 Zellweger et al. 20013 360 67 . Non limiting examples of CD70 expressing nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell lines include C15 and C17 Busson et al. 198842 599 606 Bernheim et al. 199366 11 5 . Non limiting examples of CD70 expressing human glioma cell lines include U373 Palma et al. 200082 480 7 and U87MG Johns et al. 200298 398 408 . Non limiting examples of multiple myeloma cell lines include MM.1S Greenstein et al. 200331 271 282 and L363 Diehl et al. 1978 Blut 36 331 338 . See also Drexler and Matsuo 200024 681 703 . These tumor cell lines can be established in immunodeficient rodent hosts either as solid tumor by subcutaneous injections or as disseminated tumors by intravenous injections. Once established within a host these tumor models can be applied to evaluate the therapeutic efficacies of the anti CD70 antibody or derivatives as described herein on modulating in vivo tumor growth.

The anti CD70 antibodies or derivatives as described herein are useful for treating or preventing a CD70 expressing cancer or an immunological disorder characterized by expression of CD70 by inappropriate activation of immune cells e.g. lymphocytes or dendritic cells . Such expression of CD70 can be due to for example increased CD70 protein levels on the cells surface and or altered antigenicity of the expressed CD70. Treatment or prevention of the immunological disorder according to the methods described herein is achieved by administering to a subject in need of such treatment or prevention an effective amount of the anti CD70 antibody or derivative whereby the antibody or derivative i binds to activated immune cells that express CD70 and that are associated with the disease state and ii exerts a cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory effect on the activated immune cells without conjugation to a cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory agent.

Immunological diseases that are characterized by inappropriate activation of immune cells and that can be treated or prevented by the methods described herein can be classified for example by the type s of hypersensitivity reaction s that underlie the disorder. These reactions are typically classified into four types anaphylactic reactions cytotoxic cytolytic reactions immune complex reactions or cell mediated immunity CMI reactions also referred to as delayed type hypersensitivity DTH reactions . See e.g. William E. Paul ed. Raven Press N.Y. 3rd ed. 1993 . 

Specific examples of such immunological diseases include the following rheumatoid arthritis autoimmune demyelinative diseases e.g. multiple sclerosis allergic encephalomyelitis psoriatic arthritis endocrine ophthalmopathy uveoretinitis systemic lupus erythematosus myasthenia gravis Graves disease glomerulonephritis autoimmune hepatological disorder inflammatory bowel disease e.g. Crohn s disease anaphylaxis allergic reaction Sj gren s syndrome type I diabetes mellitus primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis fibromyalgia polymyositis dermatomyositis multiple endocrine failure Schmidt s syndrome autoimmune uveitis Addison s disease adrenalitis thyroiditis Hashimoto s thyroiditis autoimmune thyroid disease pernicious anemia gastric atrophy chronic hepatitis lupoid hepatitis atherosclerosis subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus hypoparathyroidism Dressler s syndrome autoimmune thrombocytopenia idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura hemolytic anemia pemphigus vulgaris pemphigus dermatitis herpetiformis alopecia arcata pemphigoid scleroderma progressive systemic sclerosis CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s phenomenon esophageal dysmotility sclerodactyl and telangiectasia male and female autoimmune infertility ankylosing spondolytis ulcerative colitis mixed connective tissue disease polyarteritis nedosa systemic necrotizing vasculitis atopic dermatitis atopic rhinitis Goodpasture s syndrome Chagas disease sarcoidosis rheumatic fever asthma recurrent abortion anti phospholipid syndrome farmer s lung erythema multiforme post cardiotomy syndrome Cushing s syndrome autoimmune chronic active hepatitis bird fancier s lung toxic epidermal necrolysis Alport s syndrome alveolitis allergic alveolitis fibrosing alveolitis interstitial lung disease erythema nodosum pyoderma gangrenosum transfusion reaction Takayasu s arteritis polymyalgia rheumatica temporal arteritis schistosomiasis giant cell arteritis ascariasis aspergillosis Sampter s syndrome eczema lymphomatoid granulomatosis Behcet s disease Caplan s syndrome Kawasaki s disease dengue encephalomyelitis endocarditis endomyocardial fibrosis endophthalmitis erythema elevatum et diutinum psoriasis erythroblastosis fetalis eosinophilic faciitis Shulman s syndrome Felty s syndrome filariasis cyclitis chronic cyclitis heterochronic cyclitis Fuch s cyclitis IgA nephropathy Henoch Schonlein purpura graft versus host disease transplantation rejection cardiomyopathy Eaton Lambert syndrome relapsing polychondritis cryoglobulinemia Waldenstrom s macroglobulemia Evan s syndrome and autoimmune gonadal failure.

Accordingly the methods described herein encompass treatment of disorders of B lymphocytes e.g. systemic lupus erythematosus Goodpasture s syndrome rheumatoid arthritis and type I diabetes Th lymphocytes e.g. rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis psoriasis Sj gren s syndrome Hashimoto s thyroiditis Graves disease primary biliary cirrhosis Wegener s granulomatosis tuberculosis or graft versus host disease or Th lymphocytes e.g. atopic dermatitis systemic lupus erythematosus atopic asthma rhinoconjunctivitis allergic rhinitis Omenn s syndrome systemic sclerosis or chronic graft versus host disease . Generally disorders involving dendritic cells involve disorders of Th lymphocytes or Th lymphocytes.

In some embodiments the immunological disorder is a T cell mediated immunological disorder such as a T cell disorder in which activated T cells associated with the disorder express CD70. Anti CD70 antibodies or derivatives can be administered to deplete such CD70 expressing activated T cells. In a specific embodiment administration of anti CD70 antibodies or derivatives can deplete CD70 expressing activated T cells while resting T cells are not substantially depleted by the anti CD70 or derivative. In this context not substantially depleted means that less than about 60 or less than about 70 or less than about 80 of resting T cells are not depleted.

The anti CD70 antibodies and derivatives as described herein are also useful for treating or preventing a CD70 expressing cancer. Treatment or prevention of a CD70 expressing cancer according to the methods described herein is achieved by administering to a subject in need of such treatment or prevention an effective amount of the anti CD70 antibody or derivative whereby the antibody or derivative i binds to CD70 expressing cancer cells and ii exerts a cytotoxic or cytostatic effect to deplete or inhibit the proliferation of the CD70 expressing cancer cells alone i.e. without conjugation to a cytotoxic cytostatic or immunomodulatory agent .

CD70 expressing cancers that can be treated or prevented by the methods described herein include for example different subtypes of Non Hodgkin s Lymphoma indolent NHLs follicular NHLs small lymphocytic lymphomas lymphoplamacytic NHLs or marginal zone NHLs Hodgkin s disease e.g. Reed Sternberg cells cancers of the B cell lineage including e.g. diffuse large B cell lymphomas follicular lymphomas Burkitt s lymphoma mantle cell lymphomas B cell lymphocytic leukemias e.g. acute lymphocytic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia Epstein Barr Virus positive B cell lymphomas renal cell carcinomas e.g. clear cell and papillary nasopharyngeal carcinomas thymic carcinomas gliomas glioblastomas neuroblastomas astrocytomas meningiomas Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia multiple myelomas and colon stomach and rectal carcinomas. The cancer can be for example newly diagnosed pre treated or refractory or relapsed. In some embodiments a CD70 expressing cancer has at least about 15 000 at least about 10 000 or at least about 5 000 CD70 molecules cell.

VIII. Pharmaceutical Compositions Comprising Anti CD70 Antibodies and Derivatives and Administration Thereof

A composition containing a CD70 binding agent e.g. an anti CD70 antibody or derivative can be administered to a subject having or at risk of having an immunological disorder or a CD70 expressing cancer. The invention further provides for the use of a CD70 binding agent e.g. an anti CD70 antibody or derivative in the manufacture of a medicament for prevention or treatment of a CD70 expressing cancer or immunological disorder. The term subject as used herein means any mammalian patient to which a CD70 binding agent can be administered including e.g. humans and non human mammals such as primates rodents and dogs. Subjects specifically intended for treatment using the methods described herein include humans. The antibodies or derivatives can be administered either alone or in combination with other compositions in the prevention or treatment of the immunological disorder or CD70 expressing cancer.

Various delivery systems are known and can be used to administer the CD70 binding agent. Methods of introduction include but are not limited to intradermal intramuscular intraperitoneal intravenous subcutaneous intranasal epidural and oral routes. The CD70 binding agent can be administered for example by infusion or bolus injection by absorption through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings e.g. oral mucosa rectal and intestinal mucosa and the like and can be administered together with other biologically active agents such as chemotherapeutic agents. Administration can be systemic or local.

In specific embodiments the CD70 binding agent composition is administered by injection by means of a catheter by means of a suppository or by means of an implant the implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including a membrane such as a silastic membrane or a fiber. Typically when administering the composition materials to which the anti CD70 antibody or derivative does not absorb are used.

In other embodiments the anti CD70 antibody or derivative is delivered in a controlled release system. In one embodiment a pump may be used see Langer 1990249 1527 1533 Sefton 198914 201 Buchwald et al. 198088 507 Saudek et al. 1989321 574 . In another embodiment polymeric materials can be used. See Langer and Wise eds. CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1974 Smolen and Ball eds. Wiley New York 1984 Ranger and Peppas 198323 61. See also Levy et al. 1985228 190 During et al. 198925 351 Howard et al. 198971 105. Other controlled release systems are discussed for example in Langer supra.

A CD70 binding agent e.g. an anti CD70 antibody or derivative can be administered as pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of the binding agent and one or more pharmaceutically compatible ingredients. For example the pharmaceutical composition typically includes one or more pharmaceutical carriers e.g. sterile liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like . Water is a more typical carrier when the pharmaceutical composition is administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical excipients include for example starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The composition if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents. These compositions can take the form of solutions suspensions emulsions tablets pills capsules powders sustained release formulations and the like. The composition can be formulated as a suppository with traditional binders and carriers such as triglycerides. Oral formulations can include standard carriers such as pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine cellulose magnesium carbonate etc. Examples of suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences by E. W. Martin. Such compositions will contain a therapeutically effective amount of the protein typically in purified form together with a suitable amount of carrier so as to provide the form for proper administration to the patient. The formulations correspond to the mode of administration.

In typical embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is formulated in accordance with routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for intravenous administration to human beings. Typically compositions for intravenous administration are solutions in sterile isotonic aqueous buffer. Where necessary the pharmaceutical can also include a buffering agent e.g. a phosphate citrate or amino acid such as histidine a solubilizing agent e.g. nonionic detergents such as a polysorbate triton or poloxamer or an amino acid and or a local anesthetic such as lignocaine to ease pain at the site of the injection. Generally the ingredients are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit dosage form for example as a dry lyophilized powder or water free concentrate in a hermetically sealed container such as an ampoule or sachette indicating the quantity of active agent. Where the pharmaceutical is to be administered by infusion it can be dispensed with an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the pharmaceutical is administered by injection an ampoule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients can be mixed prior to administration.

Further the pharmaceutical composition can be provided as a pharmaceutical kit comprising a a container containing a CD70 binding agent e.g. an anti CD70 antibody or derivative in lyophilized form and b a second container containing a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent e.g. sterile water for injection. The pharmaceutically acceptable diluent can be used for reconstitution or dilution of the lyophilized anti CD70 antibody or derivative. Optionally associated with such container s can be a notice in the form prescribed by a governmental agency regulating the manufacture use or sale of pharmaceuticals or biological products which notice reflects approval by the agency of manufacture use or sale for human administration.

The amount of the CD70 binding agent e.g. anti CD70 antibody or derivative that is effective in the treatment or prevention of an immunological disorder or CD70 expressing cancer can be determined by standard clinical techniques. In addition in vitro assays may optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges. The precise dose to be employed in the formulation will also depend on the route of administration and the stage of immunological disorder or CD70 expressing cancer and should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each patient s circumstances. Effective doses may be extrapolated from dose response curves derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.

For example toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of the anti CD70 antibody or derivative can be determined in cell cultures or experimental animals by standard pharmaceutical procedures for determining the LD the dose lethal to 50 of the population and the ED the dose therapeutically effective in 50 of the population . The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD ED. A CD70 binding agent e.g. an anti CD70 antibody or derivative that exhibits a large therapeutic index is preferred. Where a CD70 binding agent exhibits toxic side effects a delivery system that targets the CD70 binding agent to the site of affected tissue can be used to minimize potential damage non CD70 expressing cells and thereby reduce side effects.

The data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of the CD70 binding agent typically lies within a range of circulating concentrations that include the EDwith little or no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the route of administration utilized. For any CD70 binding agent used in the method the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. A dose can be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that includes the IC i.e. the concentration of the test compound that achieves a half maximal inhibition of symptoms as determined in cell culture. Such information can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma can be measured for example by high performance liquid chromatography.

Generally the dosage of an anti CD70 antibody or derivative administered to a patient with an immunological disorder or CD70 expressing cancer is typically 0.1 mg kg to 100 mg kg of the subject s body weight. The dosage administered to a subject is 0.1 mg kg to 50 mg kg of the subject s body weight 0.1 to 20 mg mg 0.5 mg kg to 30 mg kg 1 mg kg to 20 mg kg 1 mg kg to 15 mg kg or 1 mg kg to 10 mg kg of the subject s body weight. Generally human antibodies have a longer half life within the human body than antibodies from other species due to the immune response to the foreign proteins. Thus lower dosages of anti CD70 antibody or derivative comprising humanized chimeric or human antibodies and less frequent administration is often possible.

In some embodiments the pharmaceutical compositions comprising the CD70 binding agent can further comprise a therapeutic agent i.e. a non conjugated cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agent such as for example any of those described herein . The anti CD70 binding agent also can be co administered in combination with one or more therapeutic agents for the treatment or prevention of immunological disorders or CD70 expressing cancers. For example combination therapy can include a therapeutic agent e.g. a cytostatic cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agent such as an unconjugated cytostatic cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agent such as those conventionally used for the treatment of cancers or immunological disorders . Combination therapy can also include e.g. administration of an agent that targets a receptor or receptor complex other than CD70 on the surface of activated lymphocytes dendritic cells or CD70 expressing cancer cells. An example of such an agent includes a second non CD70 antibody that binds to a molecule at the surface of an activated lymphocyte dendritic cell or CD70 expressing cancer cell. Another example includes a ligand that targets such a receptor or receptor complex. Typically such an antibody or ligand binds to a cell surface receptor on activated lymphocytes dendritic cell or CD70 expressing cancer cell and enhances the cytotoxic or cytostatic effect of the anti CD70 antibody by delivering a cytostatic or cytotoxic signal to the activated lymphocyte dendritic cell or CD70 expressing cancer cell. Such combinatorial administration can have an additive or synergistic effect on disease parameters e.g. severity of a symptom the number of symptoms or frequency of relapse .

With respect to therapeutic regimens for combinatorial administration in a specific embodiment an anti CD70 binding agent is administered concurrently with a therapeutic agent. In another specific embodiment the therapeutic agent is administered prior or subsequent to administration of the anti CD70 antibody or derivative by at least an hour and up to several months for example at least an hour five hours 12 hours a day a week a month or three months prior or subsequent to administration of the anti CD70 antibody or derivative. In some embodiments the subject is monitored following administration of the anti CD70 binding agent and optionally the therapeutic agent.

The therapeutic agent can be for example any agent that exerts a therapeutic effect on cancer cells or activated immune cells. Typically the therapeutic agent is a cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agent. Such combinatorial administration can have an additive or synergistic effect on disease parameters e.g. severity of a symptom the number of symptoms or frequency of relapse .

Useful classes of cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents include for example antitubulin agents auristatins DNA minor groove binders DNA replication inhibitors alkylating agents e.g. platinum complexes such as cis platin mono platinum bis platinum and tri nuclear platinum complexes and carboplatin anthracyclines antibiotics antifolates antimetabolites chemotherapy sensitizers duocarmycins etoposides fluorinated pyrimidines ionophores lexitropsins nitrosoureas platinols pre forming compounds purine antimetabolites puromycins radiation sensitizers steroids taxanes topoisomerase inhibitors vinca alkaloids or the like.

Individual cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agents include for example an androgen anthramycin AMC asparaginase 5 azacytidine azathioprine bleomycin busulfan buthionine sulfoximine camptothecin carboplatin carmustine BSNU CC 1065 chlorambucil cisplatin colchicine cyclophosphamide cytarabine cytidine arabinoside cytochalasin B dacarbazine dactinomycin actinomycin daunorubicin decarbazine docetaxel doxorubicin an estrogen 5 fluorodeoxyuridine 5 fluorouracil gramicidin D hydroxyurea idarubicin ifosfamide irinotecan lomustine CCNU mechlorethamine melphalan 6 mercaptopurine methotrexate mithramycin mitomycin C mitoxantrone nitroimidazole paclitaxel plicamycin procarbazine rapamycin Sirolimus streptozotocin tenoposide 6 thioguanine thioTEPA topotecan vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine VP 16 and VM 26.

In some typical embodiments the therapeutic agent is a cytotoxic agent. Suitable cytotoxic agents include for example dolastatins e.g. auristatin E AFP MMAF MMAE DNA minor groove binders e.g. enediynes and lexitropsins duocarmycins taxanes e.g. paclitaxel and docetaxel puromycins vinca alkaloids CC 1065 SN 38 topotecan morpholino doxorubicin rhizoxin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin echinomycin combretastatin netropsin epothilone A and B estramustine cryptophysins cemadotin maytansinoids discodermolide eleutherobin and mitoxantrone.

In some embodiments the cytotoxic agent is a conventional chemotherapeutic such as for example doxorubicin paclitaxel melphalan vinca alkaloids methotrexate mitomycin C or etoposide. In some embodiments the therapeutic agent can be a combined therapy such as CHOP Cyclophosphamide Doxorubicin Prednisolone and Vincristine CHOP R Cyclophosphamide Doxorubicin Vincristine Prednisolone and rituximab or ABVD Doxorubicin Bleomycin Vinblastine and Dacarbazine . Agents such as CC 1065 analogues calicheamicin maytansine analogues of dolastatin 10 rhizoxin and palytoxin can also be used.

In specific embodiments the cytotoxic or cytostatic agent is auristatin E also known in the art as dolastatin 10 or a derivative thereof. Typically the auristatin E derivative is e.g. an ester formed between auristatin E and a keto acid. For example auristatin E can be reacted with paraacetyl benzoic acid or benzoylvaleric acid to produce AEB and AEVB respectively. Other typical auristatin derivatives include AFP MMAF and MMAE. The synthesis and structure of auristatin E and its derivatives are described in U.S. Patent Application Nos. 20030083263 and 20050009751 International Patent Application No. PCT US03 24209 International Patent Application No. PCT US02 13435 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 323 315 6 239 104 6 034 065 5 780 588 5 665 860 5 663 149 5 635 483 5 599 902 5 554 725 5 530 097 5 521 284 5 504 191 5 410 024 5 138 036 5 076 973 4 986 988 4 978 744 4 879 278 4 816 444 and 4 486 414.

In specific embodiments the cytotoxic agent is a DNA minor groove binding agent. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 130 237. For example in some embodiments the minor groove binding agent is a CBI compound. In other embodiments the minor groove binding agent is an enediyne e.g. calicheamicin .

Examples of anti tubulin agents include but are not limited to taxanes e.g. Taxol paclitaxel Taxotere docetaxel T67 Tularik vinca alkyloids e.g. vincristine vinblastine vindesine and vinorelbine and dolastatins e.g. auristatin E AFP MMAF MMAE AEB AEVB . Other antitubulin agents include for example baccatin derivatives taxane analogs e.g. epothilone A and B nocodazole colchicine and colcimid estramustine cryptophysins cemadotin maytansinoids combretastatins discodermolide and eleutherobin.

In some embodiments the cytotoxic agent is a maytansinoid another group of anti tubulin agents. For example in specific embodiments the maytansinoid is maytansine or DM 1 ImmunoGen Inc. see also Chari et al. 199252 127 131 .

In some embodiments the therapeutic agent is not a radioisotope. In some embodiments the therapeutic agent is not ricin or saporin.

In certain embodiments the therapeutic agent is an anti VEGF agent such as AVASTIN bevacizumab or NEXAVAR Sorafenib a PDGF blocker such as SUTENT sunitinib malate or a kinase inhibitor such as NEXAVAR sorafenib tosylateor .

In some embodiments the cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agent is an antimetabolite. The antimetabolite can be for example a purine antagonist e.g. azothioprine or mycophenolate mofetil a dihydrofolate reductase inhibitor e.g. methotrexate acyclovir gancyclovir zidovudine vidarabine ribavarin azidothymidine cytidine arabinoside amantadine dideoxyuridine iododeoxyuridine poscarnet or trifluridine.

In other embodiments the cytotoxic or immunomodulatory agent is tacrolimus cyclosporine or rapamycin. In further embodiments the cytoxic agent is aldesleukin alemtuzumab alitretinoin allopurinol altretamine amifostine anastrozole arsenic trioxide bexarotene bexarotene calusterone capecitabine celecoxib cladribine Darbepoetin alfa Denileukin diftitox dexrazoxane dromostanolone propionate epirubicin Epoetin alfa estramustine exemestane Filgrastim floxuridine fludarabine fulvestrant gemcitabine gemtuzamab ozogamicin goserelin idarubicin ifosfamide imatinib mesylate Interferon alfa 2a irinotecan letrozole leucovorin levamisole mechlorethamine or nitrogen mustard megestrol mesna methotrexate methoxsalen mitomycin C mitotane nandrolone phenpropionate oprelvekin oxaliplatin pamidronate pegademase pegaspargase pegfilgrastim pentostatin pipobroman plicamycin porfimer sodium procarbazine quinacrine rasburicase Sargramostim streptozocin tamoxifen temozolomide teniposide testolactone thioguanine toremifene Tositumomab Trastuzumab tretinoin uracil mustard valrubicin vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine and zoledronate.

In additional embodiments the therapeutic agent is an antibody such as a humanized anti HER2 monoclonal antibody RITUXAN rituximab Genentech a chimeric anti CD20 monoclonal antibody OVAREX AltaRex Corporation MA PANOREX Glaxo Wellcome N.C. a murine IgG2a antibody Cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone Systems Inc. NY an anti EGFR IgG chimeric antibody Vitaxin MedImmune Inc. MD Campath I H Leukosite Mass. a humanized IgG1 antibody lintuzumab Protein Design Labs Inc. CA and Seattle Genetics Inc. a humanized anti CD33 IgG antibody LymphoCide Immunomedics Inc. NJ a humanized anti CD22 IgG antibody Smart ID10 Protein Design Labs Inc. CA a humanized anti HLA DR antibody Oncolym Techniclone Inc. CA a radiolabeled murine anti HLA Dr10 antibody Allomune BioTransplant CA a humanized anti CD2 mAb Avastin Genentech Inc. CA an anti VEGF humanized antibody Epratuzamab Immunomedics Inc. NJ and Amgen Calif. an anti CD22 antibody CEAcide Immunomedics N.J. a humanized anti CEA antibody or an anti CD40 antibody e.g. as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 838 261 .

Other suitable antibodies include but are not limited to antibodies against the following antigens CA125 CA15 3 CA19 9 L6 Lewis Y Lewis X alpha fetoprotein CA 242 placental alkaline phosphatase prostate specific membrane antigen prostatic acid phosphatase epidermal growth factor MAGE 1 MAGE 2 MAGE 3 MAGE 4 anti transferrin receptor p97 MUC1 KLH CEA gp100 MART1 Prostate Specific Antigen IL 2 receptor CD20 CD52 CD33 CD22 human chorionic gonadotropin CD38 CD40 mucin P21 MPG and Neu oncogene product.

In some embodiments the therapeutic agent is an immunomodulatory agent. The immunomodulatory agent can be for example gancyclovir etanercept tacrolimus cyclosporine rapamycin REVLIMID lenalidomide cyclophosphamide azathioprine mycophenolate mofetil or methotrexate. Alternatively the immunomodulatory agent can be for example a glucocorticoid e.g. cortisol or aldosterone or a glucocorticoid analogue e.g. prednisone or dexamethasone .

In some typical embodiments the immunomodulatory agent is an anti inflammatory agent such as arylcarboxylic derivatives pyrazole containing derivatives oxicam derivatives and nicotinic acid derivatives. Classes of anti inflammatory agents include for example cyclooxygenase inhibitors 5 lipoxygenase inhibitors and leukotriene receptor antagonists. In some embodiments the immodulatory agent is a cytokine such as G CSF GM CSF or IL 2.

Suitable cyclooxygenase inhibitors include meclofenamic acid mefenamic acid carprofen diclofenac diflunisal fenbufen fenoprofen ibuprofen indomethacin ketoprofen nabumetone naproxen sulindac tenoxicam tolmetin and acetylsalicylic acid.

Suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include redox inhibitors e.g. catechol butane derivatives nordihydroguairetic acid NDGA masoprocol phenidone Ianopalen indazolinones naphazatrom benzofuranol alkylhydroxylamine and non redox inhibitors e.g. hydroxythiazoles methoxyalkylthiazoles benzopyrans and derivatives thereof methoxytetrahydropyran boswellic acids and acetylated derivatives of boswellic acids and quinolinemethoxyphenylacetic acids substituted with cycloalkyl radicals and precursors of redox inhibitors.

Other suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include antioxidants e.g. phenols propyl gallate flavonoids and or naturally occurring substrates containing flavonoids hydroxylated derivatives of the flavones flavonol dihydroquercetin luteolin galangin orobol derivatives of chalcone 4 2 4 trihydroxychalcone ortho aminophenols N hydroxyureas benzofuranols ebselen and species that increase the activity of the reducing selenoenzymes iron chelating agents e.g. hydroxamic acids and derivatives thereof N hydroxyureas 2 benzyl 1 naphthol catechols hydroxylamines carnosol trolox C catechol naphthol sulfasalazine zyleuton 5 hydroxyanthranilic acid and 4 omega arylalkyl phenylalkanoic acids imidazole containing compounds e.g. ketoconazole and itraconazole phenothiazines and benzopyran derivatives.

Yet other suitable lipoxygenase inhibitors include inhibitors of eicosanoids e.g. octadecatetraenoic eicosatetraenoic docosapentaenoic eicosahexaenoic and docosahexaenoic acids and esters thereof PGE1 prostaglandin E1 PGA2 prostaglandin A2 viprostol 15 monohydroxyeicosatetraenoic 15 monohydroxy eicosatrienoic and 15 monohydroxyeicosapentaenoic acids and leukotrienes B5 C5 and D5 compounds interfering with calcium flows phenothiazines diphenylbutylamines verapamil fuscoside curcumin chlorogenic acid caffeic acid 5 8 11 14 eicosatetrayenoic acid ETYA hydroxyphenylretinamide Ionapalen esculin diethylcarbamazine phenanthroline baicalin proxicromil thioethers diallyl sulfide and di 1 propenyl sulfide.

Leukotriene receptor antagonists include calcitriol ontazolast Bayer Bay x 1005 Ciba Geigy CGS 25019C ebselen Leo Denmark ETH 615 Lilly LY 293111 Ono ONO 4057 Terumo TMK 688 Boehringer Ingleheim BI RM 270 Lilly LY 213024 Lilly LY 264086 Lilly LY 292728 Ono ONO LB457 Pfizer 105696 Perdue Frederick PF 10042 Rhone Poulenc Rorer RP 66153 SmithKline Beecham SB 201146 SmithKline Beecham SB 201993 SmithKline Beecham SB 209247 Searle SC 53228 Sumitamo SM 15178 American Home Products Way 121006 Bayer Bay o 8276 Warner Lambert CI 987 Warner Lambert CI 987BPC 15LY 223982 Lilly LY 233569 Lilly LY 255283 MacroNex MNX 160 Merck and Co. MK 591 Merck and Co. MK 886 Ono ONO LB 448 Purdue Frederick PF 5901 Rhone Poulenc Rorer RG 14893 Rhone Poulenc Rorer RP 66364 Rhone Poulenc Rorer RP 69698 Shionogi S 2474 Searle SC 41930 Searle SC 50505 Searle SC 51146 Searle SC 52798 SmithKline Beecham SK and F 104493 Leo Denmark SR 2566 Tanabe T 757 and Teijin TEI 1338.

The invention is further described in the following examples which are in not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Cell lines described in the following examples were maintained in culture according to the conditions specified by the American Type Culture Collection ATCC or Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkulturen GmbH Braunschweig Germany DMSZ . Cell culture reagents were obtained from Invitrogen Corp. Carlsbad Calif.

To determine the cDNA sequences encoding the light V and heavy V chain variable regions of 1F6 and 2F2 mAb total RNA was isolated from the 1F6 and 2F2 hybridomas using TRIzol Reagent Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. according to the manufacturer s instructions. Gene specific primers mIgcK1 5 CTT CCA CTT GAC ATT GAT GTC TTT G 3 SEQ ID NO 41 and mIgG1 5 CAG GTC ACT GTC ACT GGC TCA G 3 SEQ ID NO 42 were applied to reverse transcribe the light chain variable V and heavy chain variable V first strand cDNAs from both RNA preparations respectively. First strand cDNA reactions were run using the SuperScript First Strand Synthesis System for RT PCR from Invitrogen. The Vand VcDNAs were then poly G tailed using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase TdT and the supplied TdT buffer according to conditions specified by the manufacturer Invitrogen . Poly G tailed Vand Vfirst strand cDNAs were then subjected to PCR amplification. The forward primer for both the Vand VPCRs was ANCTAIL 5 GTC GAT GAG CTC TAG AAT TCG TGC CCC CCC CCC CCC C 3 SEQ ID NO 43 . The reverse primer for amplifying the Vwas HBS mck 5 CGT CAT GTC GAC GGA TCC AAG CTT CAA GAA GCA CAC GAC TGA GGC AC 3 SEQ ID NO 44 . The reverse primer for amplifying the Vwas HBS mG1 5 CGT CAT GTC GAC GGA TCC AAG CTT GTC ACC ATG GAG TTA GTT TGG GC 3 SEQ ID NO 45 . PCRs were run with Ex Taq and the supplied reaction buffer in conditions specified by the manufacturer Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. . The Vand VPCR products were then cut by HindIII and EcoRI and cloned into HindIII EcoRI cut pUC19. Recombinant plasmid clones were identified and the nucleotide sequences for the 1F6 and 2F2 hybridomas were determined.

Complementarity determining regions CDRS in the heavy and light chains of 1F6 and 2F2 mAbs were determined according to the criteria described in Kabat et al. 1991 Washington D.C. US Department of Health and Public Services Chothia and Lesk 1987196 901 17 . Sequence alignments at both the cDNA and amino acid levels revealed that closely related light chain genes were probably utilized in both hybridomas. There is a 92 sequence identity between 1F6 Vand 2F2 Vat the amino acid level. Sequence comparison of the CDRs shows that 1F6 CDR L1 is identical to 2F2 CDR L1 only one divergent substitution is present between 1F6 CDR L2 and 2F2 CDR L2 and only 2 conservative substitutions are present between 1F6 CDR L3 and 2F2 CDR L3 . On the other hand a higher degree of sequence diversity is present between 1F6 Vand 2F2 V about 66 of 137 amino acid residues are different between the 2 VS. Sequence comparison of the CDRs shows that 5 of 10 residues are different between 1F6 CDR H1 and 2F2 CDR H1 3 of the 5 substitutions are divergent 12 of 17 residues are different between 1F6 CDR H2 and 2F2 CDR H2 9 of the 12 substitutions are divergent and 5 of 9 residues are different between 1F6 CDR H3 and 2F2 CDR H3 4 of the 5 substitutions are divergent .

An expression vector containing both the chimeric 1F6 heavy and light chains was constructed as described infra. In this vector each of the polypeptide chains is under the control of a copy of the CHEF1 promoter along with an associated CHEF1 intron sequence and an immunoglobulin polyA region. For construction of this large vector it was necessary to assemble the chimerized heavy and light chain sequences in separate chimerization plasmids each encoding a section of the final construct. The final expression construct was then assembled via three way ligation with a third vector encoding the rest of the necessary control regions. DG44 CHO cells were transformed with this plasmid and a clonal line with good production was isolated.

A chimerization vector pSG850 had been previously constructed by cloning a 6 kb NotI XhoI fragment of a CHEF1 vector into a Bluescript vector. This fragment contains part of the CHEF15 intron a chimeric IgGantibody heavy chain and a portion of a genomic sequence from the region just downstream of the human IgGconstant region containing a polyA signal. Replacement of the heavy chain variable region with that from 1F6 resulted in a plasmid carrying the chimeric 1F6 sequence. To prepare this construct the entire 1F6 heavy chain variable region sequence was amplified via PCR from the sequencing vector. The forward oligonucleotide primer 5 ATA AAT AAG CTT ACC GCC ACC ATG GCT TGG GTG TGG ACC TTG 3 SEQ ID NO 46 encoding a HindIII restriction site a consensus Kozac sequence 5 to the coding sequence for the heavy chain leader and sequence homologous to the leader sequence was used. The reverse primer 5 ATA AAG GCT AGC TGA GGA GAC GGT GAC TGA GGT 3 SEQ ID NO 47 encoded sequence homologous to the 3 end of the variable region and a NheI restriction site. The PCR product was digested with HindIII and NheI. The pSG850 vector was digested with the same enzymes to remove the existing variable region and the larger vector fragment was isolated. Ligation of the 1F6 Vand the pSG850 vector fragments resulted in the construction of pJC140 containing the chimeric 1F6 heavy chain.

A chimerization vector pSG855 had been previously constructed by cloning a 4 kb XhoI XbaI fragment of a CHEF1 vector into a Bluescript vector. This fragment contains a portion of the human IgGdownstream region the CHEF1 promoter region the CHEF1 5 intron a chimeric antibody kappa light chain and the human kappa downstream region containing a polyA signal. Replacement of the existing light chain variable region with that from 1F6 resulted in a plasmid carrying the chimeric 1F6 kappa sequence. To prepare this construct the entire 1F6 light chain variable region sequence was amplified via PCR from the sequencing vector. The forward oligonucleotide primer 5 ATA AAG AAG CTT ACC GCC ACC ATG GAG ACA GAC ACA CTC CTG 3 SEQ ID NO 48 encoding a HindIII restriction site a consensus Kozac sequence 5 to the coding sequence for the light chain leader and sequence homologous to the leader sequence was used. The reverse primer 5 ATA AAG GAA GAC AGA TGG TGC AGC CAC AGT CCG TTT GAT TTC CAG CTT GGT GCC 3 SEQ ID NO 49 encoded sequence complementary to the last 24 base pairs of the light chain variable region and the first 24 base pairs of the kappa constant region including a BbsI restriction site. The PCR product was digested with HindIII and BbsI. The pSG855 vector was digested with the same enzymes to cut out the existing variable region and the larger vector fragment was isolated. Ligation of the 1F6 Vand the pSG855 vector fragments resulted in the construction of pJC160 containing the chimeric 1F6 light chain.

The expression vector carrying both chains of the chimeric 1F6 c1F6 antibody was assembled via a three way ligation. The CHEF1 expression vector pDEF14 was digested with NotI and XbaI and the 19.7 kb vector fragment was isolated. pJC140 was digested with NotI and XhoI and the 6 kilobase fragment was isolated. pJC160 was digested with XhoI and XbaI and the 4 kilobase fragment was isolated. These three fragments were mixed in a 1 1 1 molar ratio in a ligation reaction and the ligation product was used to transform XL10 Gold cells. Clones were screened by restriction mapping and a correct clone was confirmed by sequencing of the heavy and light chain coding regions. shows the plasmid map of the final product.

200 g of pDEF14 1F6 plasmid DNA was linearized with PvuI overnight at 37 C. and then ethanol precipitated after the addition of 100 g sonicated salmon sperm DNA Specialty Media cat S 005 G Lavallette N.J. . The DNA was resuspended in 350 l sterile dHO and 450 l 2 HeBS 40 mM HEPES NaOH pH 7.0 274 mM NaCl 10 mM KCl 1.4 mM NaHPO and 12 mM dextrose .

DG44 Chinese Hamster Ovary cells were from a bank of cells which had been previously adapted to serum free suspension. The DG44 were cultured in shake flasks to a density of approximately 1 10cells ml in nonselective media serum free Excell325 JRH Biosciences Inc. Lenexa Kans. supplemented with recombinant human insulin L glutamine hypoxanthine and thymidine. 2 10cells were harvested by centrifugation in sterile 15 ml tubes washed with CMF PBS and repelleted. The washed DG44 cells were resuspended in the DNA solution and pulsed once in a BioRad GenePulser II electroporator 960 F 290 volts time constant 9 11 msec Bio Rad Hercules Calif. . The cells were allowed to recover at room temperature for 8 10 minutes. Cells were then added to 10 ml of the non selective serum free medium above transferred to stationary T75 flasks and allowed to recover for two days at 37 C. and 5 CO. The transfection pool was then centrifuged at low speed and resuspended in selective medium same as the medium described above except without hypoxanthine and thymidine designated Excell325SEL and passaged until the culture reached a viability of 90 . A fed batch culture of this transfection pool yielded cAb with specificity comparable to the murine 1F6 Ab.

Using a feeder cell method the c1F6 transfection pool cells were mixed with DG44 cells at a ratio of 1 2000 in Excell325SEL without hypoxanthine or thymidine and plated at a density of 1000 cells well into four 96 well plates. This gave an effective density of 0.5 c1F6 cells well along with 1000 DG44 feeder cells well. The DG44 cells died off after a few days due to their requirement for HT. DG44 cells plated at 10 000 cells well under the same conditions were shown to exhibit no survival. The two plates yielded 34 wells with outgrowth of single colonies. The 34 clonal wells were scaled up to 24 well plates and extinct culture supernatants from the wells were screened for cAb titer via a standard anti chimeric antibody ELISA. Six subclones were chosen based on titer and growth for further screening via shake flask fed batch culture. One of these clones demonstrated a cell specific productivity of approximately 20 picograms per cell per day with a final fed batch titer of 1.1 g l.

The ability of c1F6 to mediate ADCC against the CD70 cell lines WIL2 S Caki 1 and 786 O was measured using a standard Cr release assay. Tumor cells were labeled for one hour with 100 Ci NaCrO washed thoroughly to remove unincorporated radioisotope then plated in a 96 well plate at a concentration of 5 000 cells per well. Antibodies c1F6 m1F6 or human Ig were added to appropriate wells at a final concentration of 1 g ml for 0.5 hours prior to the addition of effector PBMC. PBMC were adjusted to reflect an effector cell to target cell ratio of 30 CD16 cells 1 target cell. After 4 hours incubation the Cr released from lysed cells was measured and the percent specific lysis calculated as test sample cpm spontaneous cpm total cpm spontaneous cpm 100. Spontaneous release of isotope was determined from the supernatant of target cells incubated in medium alone. Total counts were determined from target cells lysed with 2 triton X. As shown in c1F6 effectively induced the lysis of each tumor target whereas tumor cells treated with CD70 binding murine 1F6 m1F6 or non binding control human Ig hIg were minimally affected. Lysis of the NK sensitive target K562 in the absence of antibody confirmed the presence of effector cells with cytolytic potential within PBMC.

Caki 1 renal cell carcinoma cells were labeled with NaCrO treated with graded doses of c1F6 and then incubated with effector PBMC from two normal donors. Specific lysis was assessed after 4 hours incubation as described in Example 2. Donor 2051661 and ND016 efficiently lysed Caki 1 target cells treated with 1 or 0.1 g ml c1F6 . Specific lysis decreased in an antibody dose dependent manner thereafter and was negligible when target cells were treated with 0.001 g ml c1F6. Target cells mixed with non binding control Ig hIg were not lysed by PBMC from either donor.

To determine if transformed cells of B and T cell lineage were also susceptible to c1F6 mediated ADCC activity CD70 B lymphoblastoid cells WIL2 S and cutaneous T cell lymphoma cells HH were labeled with NaCrOand then mixed with c1F6 or human Ig at various concentrations as indicated. PBMC were added to the target cells at a ratio of 18 1 CD16 cells target and percent lysis determined after a four hour incubation as described in Example 2. shows that both WIL2 S and HH are recognized and lysed by PBMC effector cells in the presence of c1F6. Whereas treatment of target cells with non binding control antibody resulted in minimal cell lysis treatment of WIL2 S and HH cells with c1F6 at 1 g ml enabled 43.5 and 37.5 target cell death respectively.

The multiple myeloma cell lines L 363 JJN 3 LP 1 and U 266 were tested for expression of CD70 by flow cytometry. As shown in CD70 was readily detected on each. The susceptibility of these multiple myeloma cell lines to chimeric 1F6 mediated ADCC was determined as described in Example 2. Target cells treated with 1 or 0.1 g ml c1F6 were efficiently lysed . Specific lysis decreased in an antibody dose dependent manner thereafter and was negligible when target cells were treated with 0.001 g ml c1F6. Target cells mixed with non binding control Ig hIg were not lysed. Blockade of Fc RIII by pre incubating effector cells with anti CD16 antibody abolished ADCC activity confirming the dependence of lytic activity on interaction of antibody with FcR bearing effector cells. Similar dose dependent chimeric 1F6 mediated ADCC was also observed using CD70 Hodgkin s disease cell lines as targets .

A 9 amino acid peptide GILGFVFTL M1 peptide SEQ ID NO 50 derived from the influenza virus matrix protein binds to the peptide binding groove of the HLA A0201 molecule. Presentation of the M1 peptide by HLA A0201 expressing antigen presenting cells to autologous T cells specifically stimulates the activation and expansion of CD8 cytotoxic T cells expressing the T cell receptor V 17 chain Lehner et al. 1995181 79 91 constituting a convenient in vitro experimental system to track the activation and expansion of antigen specific T cells to their cognate antigen.

To examine CD70 expression on activated antigen specific T cells PBMCs from a normal donor expressing HLA A0201 were stimulated with the M1 peptide. PBMCs were seeded at 2 10cells ml with 5 g ml of M1 peptide in AIMV medium supplemented with 5 human AB serum. IL 2 Proleukin Chiron Emeryville Calif. and IL 15 R and D Systems Minneapolis Minn. were added to a final concentration of 20 IU ml and 5 ng ml respectively once every two days beginning on day 2 after culture initiation. The expansion of CD8 V 17 T cells and induction of CD70 on the CD8 V 17 were followed by three color flow cytometry. V 17 T cells were identified by the anti TCRV 17 mAb clone E17.5F3 Beckman Coulter Miami Fla. . Results showed that whereas 1 of the cells within the lymphocyte population were CD8 V 17 at culture initiation the percentage of CD8 V 17 progressively increased to 9 on day 5 to 48 on day 7 and to 66 on day 10 . CD70 expression was only detected in the CD8 V 17 subpopulation confirming that CD70 was induced on activated T cells responding to the antigenic stimulation but not on the bystander antigen non specific T cells. The kinetics of CD70 expression was analyzed in the CD8 V 17 population. CD70 became detectable 3 days after antigen stimulation and was expressed on approximately 60 of the expanding CD8 V 17 cells by day 7 . The highest level of CD70 expression as indicated by mean fluorescence intensity MFI was also detected on day 7 . The percentage of CD70 CD8 V 17 cells and the MFI of CD70 expression on the CD8 V 17started to decline thereafter C D .

To test the ability of c1F6 to deplete antigen specific activated T cells PBMC from a normal donor expressing HLA A0201 were stimulated with the M1 peptide in the presence or absence of anti CD70 antibody. PBMC were seeded in a 24 well plate at a concentration of 0.5 10cells ml with 5 g ml M1 peptide in 2 ml medium supplemented with IL 2 and IL 15 as described supra. Nonbinding immunoglobulin murine 1F6 m1F6 or chimeric 1F6 c1F6 antibody was added at a concentration of 1 g ml at the start of the culture and on days 2 and 5 post culture initiation. On day 5 half of the spent culture supernatant was replaced with fresh cytokine containing medium. On day 9 the percentage of antigen reactive cells CD 8 V 17 population was determined by flow cytometric analysis of cells stained with FITC conjugated anti V 17 and PE Cy5 conjugated anti CD8 antibodies. Some of the cell cultures were additionally supplemented on days 0 and 5 with 0.25 10CD16 cell enriched PBMC. To enrich for CD16 cells T cells B cells and monocytes were depleted by labeling PBMC with anti CD8 anti CD4 anti CD20 and anti CD14 antibodies followed by immunomagnetic bead selection. Over the course of the study the antigen specific CD8 V 17 cells expanded to comprise 47.2 of all viable cells within the culture in the absence of antibody. Similarly CD8 V 17 cells represented 48.3 and 38.5 of all cells present in cultures treated with the nonbinding antibody and murine anti CD70 antibody respectively. In contrast substantial inhibition of CD8 V 17 expansion was observed in cultures treated with chimeric anti CD70 antibody 12.5 . The reduction in antigen reactive cells was even more pronounced when CD16 effector cells were added to the culture. CD8 V 17 cells made up only 1.5 of all cells in c1F6 treated cultures compared to 32.6 in untreated cultures and 22.4 or 22.9 of cells treated with irrelevant and m1F6 antibodies respectively. These results demonstrate that c1F6 selectively targets and prevents the expansion of antigen activated T cells.

To confirm the ability of c1F6 to prevent the expansion of antigen activated T cells and to further evaluate the antibody dependent nature of this response a second study was performed in which M1 peptide stimulated PBMCs were initiated in the presence of graded doses of c1F6 . Antigen specific CD8 V 17 cells recovered on day 9 from untreated cultures represented 56 of all viable cells. In contrast addition of c1F6 to the cultures on day 0 significantly limited expansion of the antigen reactive population in a dose dependent manner. CD8 V 17 cells comprised 7.8 5.8 and 16.9 of all cells in cultures treated with 1 0.1 and 0.01 g ml c1F6 respectively. c1F6 antibody added at a concentration of 0.001 g ml did not prevent CD8 V 17 cell expansion.

The ability of c1F6 to mediate complement dependent cytotoxicity was examined using CD70 B and T cells. In these experiments normal human serum that was not heat inactivated was used as the source of complement. Target cells were treated with graded doses of c1F6 or a non binding human IgG control in the presence of normal human serum. After incubation at 37 C. for 2 hours propidium iodide was added to a final concentration of 5 g ml. Cell preparations were then examined by flow cytometry. Cells stained by propidium iodide were considered to have lost plasma membrane integrity cell lysis as a result of antibody mediated complement activation and formation of the membrane attach complex. Spontaneous background lysis was subtracted from antibody mediated cell lysis to yield specific cell lysis. Using this assay c1F6 mediated dose dependent lysis of several CD70 B cell targets . These targets included a lymphoblastic non Hodgkin s lymphoma line MHH PREB 1 the EBV Burkitt s lymphoma line MC116 the EBVlymphoblastoid B cell line WIL2 S and a multiple myeloma cell line LP 1. For both MHH PREB 1 and WIL2 S maximum specific lysis was 50 . Specific lysis of MC116 was around 15 at the highest concentration of c1F6 used.

The sensitivity of two CD70 cell targets was also examined. HH is a cutaneous T cell lymphoma cell line that constitutively expresses CD70. C9D is a normal T cell line that is maintained and propagated in culture. Stimulation of resting C9D with phytohaemagglutinin PHA 2 g ml IL 2 100 IU ml Proleukin aldesleukin Chiron Emeryville Calif. and irradiated CESS cells ATCC Manassas Va. at a 1 1 CESS T cell ratio initiates a cell activation and expansion cycle which is accompanied by inducible surface expression of CD70. HH and CD70 C9D cells were incubated with c1F6 or control IgG as described above in the presence of normal human serum. Cell lysis was assessed by propidium iodide permeability and flow cytometry . Cell lysis was detected in both targets in a dose dependent manner demonstrating that c1F6 also mediates CDC on CD70 T cell targets.

The ability of c1F6 to mediate antibody dependent cellular phagocytosis was examined using CD70 WIL2 S cells and monocyte derived macrophages as a source of phagocytic cells. To generate macrophages monocytes from PBMC were adhered to tissue culture flasks for approximately 1 hour in medium containing 1 human serum. Nonadherent cells were decanted and the remaining adherent cells cultured in serum free X VIVO medium BioWhittaker Walkersville Md. supplemented with 500 units mL rhGM CSF for 11 14 days. Macrophages were 75 viable were CD3 CD14 CD11b and expressed Fc RI II and III. To detect c1F6 mediated ADCP 8 10WIL2 S target cells were stained with PKH67 Sigma Aldrich Corp. St. Louis Mo. a green fluorescent cell membrane dye according to the manufacturer s protocol. The cells were then pre incubated with 2 g mL of c1F6 in PBS for 30 minutes on ice and washed once with PBS to remove excess antibody. The target cells were combined with 2 10macrophages in a 96 well U bottom microtiter plate at a final ratio of 1 macrophage cell to 4 target cells in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 Ultra Low IgG FBS Invitrogen Corp. . After a two hour incubation at 37 C. in a 5 COhumidified incubator the cell mixture was labeled with PE conjugated mouse anti CD11b antibody to surface label the macrophages. The cells were washed once with PBS fixed in 1 paraformaldehyde in PBS and analyzed by flow cytometry to detect double fluorescence as a measure of phagocytic activity. For fluorescence microscopy CD11b cells were further labeled with Alexa Fluor 568 goat anti mouse IgG Molecular Probes Inc. Eugene Oreg. to enhance the red fluorescent signal. As shown in 79 of macrophages phagocytosed WIL2 S target cells when the targets were coated with c1F6. In contrast limited phagocytosis was observed by macrophages mixed with WIL2 S cells treated with non binding Ig control antibody 12.8 . The double fluorescence staining indicative of phagocytosis was a result of target cell ingestion and was not due to conjugate formation as judged by fluorescent microscopy. Green WIL2 S cellular material was clearly shown to be localized within macrophages whose membranes were stained red. WIL2 S cells treated with non binding Ig were seen to be separate and apart from red stained macrophages. Phagocytic activity was dependent upon antibody in a dose specific manner . Further examination revealed that CD70transformed cell lines derived from different cancer types were all sensitive to chimeric 1F6 mediated ADCP .

CD70 positive Burkitt s lymphoma line Raji and EBV transformed lymphoblastoid cell line IM 9 were obtained from the ATCC Manassas Va. . Cells were grown in RPMI Life Technologies Inc. Gaithersburg Md. and supplemented with 10 Fetal Bovine Serum. To establish disseminated disease 1 10Raji or IM 9 cells washed and resuspended in 0.2 ml PBS were injected into the lateral tail vein of C.B. 17 SCID mice Harlan Indianapolis Ind. . After injection all of the mice were pooled and then placed randomly into the various treatment groups. A single dose of 1 or 4 mg kg of c1F6 or 4 mg kg of control IgG was given one day after the cell implant by intravenous injection into the lateral tail vein. Mice were weighed and evaluated for signs of disease at least once per week. Mice were removed from the experiment and sacrificed when they exhibited signs indicative of disease onset characterized by one or more of the following weight loss of 15 20 from day 0 body weight hunched posture lethargy cranial swelling or dehydration. In the Raji model median survival for the untreated and control IgG treated groups was 21 and 24 days respectively. Chimeric 1F6 prolonged survival in a dose dependent manner with a median survival of 31 and 72 days in the groups treated at 1 and 4 mg kg of chimeric 1F6 respectively . A similar increase in survival was also observed in the IM 9 model. In the absence of treatment or treatment with control IgG the median survival was 35 and 28 days respectively. Treatment with 1 or 4 mg kg of c1F6 increased the median survival time to 53 and 100 days respectively . In both models the increase in survival was found to be statistically significant based on the log rank test as indicated in .

The in vivo antitumor activity of a humanized 1F6 antibody was examined in disseminated lymphoma and multiple myeloma xenograft mouse models. Humanized 1F6 antibody was prepared as described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 673 070 filed Apr. 19 2005 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein . To establish disseminated disease 1 10Raji or 1 10MM1.S or L363 cells were injected into the lateral tail vein of C.B. 17 SCID mice. Mice were dosed with the humanized antibody or control non binding antibody by intraperitoneal i.p. injection every four days for a total of six doses Raji or by intravenous injection into the lateral tail vein once weekly for a total of four weeks MM.1S and L363 starting one day after cell implant. Disease requiring euthanasia was manifested by hunched posture and lack of grooming weight loss cranial swelling and hind limb paralysis or in L363 bearing mice the development of palpable lymphoid tissue associated tumors.

The results show that in each tumor model B and C survival of mice treated with humanized 1F6 was significantly prolonged compared to that of untreated mice or mice receiving non binding control antibody. The effect of humanized 1F6 treatment was further evaluated in multiple myeloma xenografts L363 and MM.1S cells by measuring the level of tumor derived monoclonal protein light chain in the sera of individual mice. As shown in right panels circulating light chain concentrations were significantly lower in mice treated with humanized 1F6 as compared to untreated mice. Mean serum levels of light chain in L363 bearing mice treated with humanized 1F6 were 0.006 g mL compared to 0.10 g mL in sera of untreated mice. Similarly light chain levels in humanized 1F6 treated MM.1S bearing mice were 0.03 g mL compared to 1.25 g mL in untreated mice. These results were consistent with the increased survival rates of the mice right panels .

To test the ability of humanized 1F6 antibody to deplete antigen specific activated T cells PBMC from a normal donor expressing HLA A0201 were stimulated with the M1 peptide in the presence or absence of varying concentrations of humanized anti CD70 antibody. Humanized 1F6 antibody was prepared as described above. PBMC were seeded in a 24 well plate at a concentration of 0.5 10cells ml with 5 g ml M1 peptide in 2 ml of medium supplemented with IL 2 and IL 15 as described supra Example 5 . On day 5 half of the culture supernatant was replaced with fresh cytokine containing medium. On day 9 the percentage of antigen reactive cells the CD8 V 17 population was determined by flow cytometric analysis of cells stained with FITC conjugated anti V 17 and PE Cy5 conjugated anti CD8 antibodies.

In a second study M1 peptide stimulated cultures were untreated or treated with humanized 1F6 in the absence or presence of antibody that specifically blocks Fc RIII CD16 . In untreated cultures the antigen specific CD8 V 17 population expanded to comprise 39 of all viable cells within the culture. Addition of humanized 1F6 significantly diminished expansion of the reactive population. This activity was largely reversed when Fc RIII receptors were blocked with anti CD16 specific antibody indicating that deletion of peptide reactive cells was mediated via humanized 1F6 interaction with FcgRIII bearing effector cells.

To determine the effect of 1F6 mediated depletion on antigen negative bystander T cells the TCR V family representation of CD4 and CD8 lymphocytes was examined in M1 activated cultures that were untreated or treated with a chimeric variant of 1F6 c1F6 human IgG1 isotype and compared to resting non antigen stimulated PBMC. Chimeric and humanized 1F6 variants are comparable in binding affinity capacity to mediate effector functions and ability to deplete activated CD8 T cell subsets.

As shown in stimulation of HLA A0201 PBMC with M1 peptide caused the expansion of CD8 cells bearing the V 17 TCR approximately 30 fold whereas all other VP TCR families tested in CD8 cells and all families tested in the CD4 cell population demonstrated minimal change. In the control population cell expansion was limited to the V 17 CD8 T cell subset which increased from 

Studies indicate a role for CD70 CD27 mediated T cell T cell interactions in enhancing the Th mediated immune responses in cell mediated autoimmune diseases including for example autoimmune demyelinating diseases. In this example experimental allergic encephalomyelitis EAE an animal model of the demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis MS is treated with a chimeric or humanized anti CD70 antibody that recognizes an epitope of murine CD70 corresponding the 1F6 epitope of human CD70.

Induction and clinical assessment of Experimental Allergic Encephalomyelitis EAE R EAE relapsing EAE is induced in six to seven week old female SJL mice by subcutaneous immunization with 100 l of complete Freund s adjuvant CFA emulsion containing 200 g of H37Ra and 40 g of the immunodominant epitope of proteolipid protein PLP. The signs of EAE are scored on a 0 to 5 scale as follows 0 normal 1 limp tail or hind limb weakness 2 limp tail and hind limb weakness waddling gait 3 partial hind limb paralysis 4 complete hind limb paralysis and 5 moribund. A relapse is defined as a sustained increase more than 2 days in at least one full grade in clinical score after the animal had improved previously at least a full clinical score and had stabilized for at least 2 days. The data are plotted as the mean clinical score for all animals in a particular treatment group or as the relapse rate total number of relapses in a group divided by the total number of mice in that group .

Anti CD70 Administration Regimens Anti CD70 antibody 0.1 3 mg kg body weight is administered intraperitoneally in a total volume of 100 l. Mice are treated 3 times per week for 3 consecutive weeks 9 total treatments . Treatment is initiated before disease onset day 7 or at the peak of acute disease day 14 . As a control one group of EAE induced mice are left untreated.

Inhibition of TNF and IFN induction Demonstration of the presence of TNF and IFN in the brains of mice with EAE shows an inflammatory disease process indicative of EAE disease progression. Inhibition of the induction of these cytokines in the brains of SJL mice treated with anti CD70 antibody indicates the value of anti CD70 antibody therapy in preventing or treating EAE. Brains are obtained from at least three animals treated preclinically at day 13 after three treatments and day 26 after nine treatments and at peak of acute disease at day 20 after three treatments and day 33 after nine treatments . Brains are fixed 10 buffered formalin and tissues are embedded in paraffin and sectioned. Sections are then independently stained for TNF or IFN by incubation with a primary antibody specific for the respective cytokine followed by incubation with a secondary antibody conjugated to FITC. Tissue sections are then mounted in mounting media and analyzed by immunofluorescence microscopy. Decreased TNF or INF staining in anti CD70 antibody treated mice versus the untreated EAE induced mice shows inhibition of inflammatory cytokine induction using anti CD70 antibody therapy.

Inhibition of Disease Symptoms or Relapse Rates EAE induced SJL mice in the anti CD70 antibody treatment group are compared with untreated EAE induced mice to assess the efficacy of anti CD70 antibody therapy in either preventing disease onset or treating established disease. For mice treated preclinically a decrease in the mean score for EAE disease as compared to the untreated control group demonstrates the efficacy of anti CD70 antibody therapy in preventing disease. For mice treated at the peak of acute disease either a a decrease in the relapse rate or b a decrease in the post treatment mean score for EAE as compared to the untreated control group demonstrates the efficacy of anti CD70 antibody therapy in treating established disease.

The hu SCID model has proven to be an effective system for investigating human immunological diseases. In this model of graft versus host disease the effects of anti CD70 antibodies on human PBLs and or PBMCs are studied.

Establishment of Human Immune Cells in Immunodeficient Mice Prior to injection of human PBL or PBMC the following effector cells are depleted in the mice with the indicated reagents for Natural Killer NK cells e.g. anti asialo GM1 or TMB 1 antibody for macrophages monocytes e.g. chlodronate encapsulated liposomes for neutrophils e.g. anti Gr 1 antibody for complement e.g. cobra venom factor. Human PBL or PBMC 1 30 10 are transplanted into SCID mice female CB.17 SCID SCID NOD or CB.17 SCID beige mice 8 12 weeks old to establish a stable long term reconstitution of a functional human immune system in the mice.

Human cell engraftment in SCID mice is assessed by analyzing sera for the presence human immunoglobulin during the experiment. Engraftment efficiency is also measured by human cell counts in blood peritoneal exudates and spleens of anesthetized or euthanized animals throughout the study. Upon successful establishment of human cell engraftment the mice are treated with anti CD70 antibody 1 10 mg kg body weight given intraperitoneally or intravenously four seven doses every four to seven days . The effects of antibody or antibody conjugate treatment on human cells is investigated by examining the numbers of the human cells in mouse blood and or spleen taken at different days 1 4 7 14 and 28 after treatment.

Collection of tissues At specific time points post injection and at the end of the experiment the following tissues are collected and analyzed for disease progression and cellular infiltration from euthanasized mice spleen lymph nodes thymus liver bone marrow lung brain intestine colon skin pancreas peritoneal exudate and blood.

The efficacy of anti CD70 antibody was investigated in a murine model of asthma. Balb c mice were treated with 10 mg OVA Alum for sensitization at days 0 7 and 14. An anti murine CD70 antibody clone 3B9 at a dose of 10 mg kg body weight was administered intraperitoneally Q7dx4 starting at day 0. The mice were then challenged with 5 aerosolized ovalbumin at days 21 22 and 23. On day 26 the mice were sacrificed and the bronchioalveolar lavage fluid blood draining lymph nodes spleen and lung were collected. The results obtained indicated a milder cellular infiltration to the lung in the 3B9 treated group in comparison to the control group.

Cell surface CD70 expression was evaluated in a panel of multiple myeloma cell lines Table 2 . The copy number of CD70 molecules expressed by each cell line was determined by quantitative flow cytometry using the QIFIKit Dako Carpinteria Calif. .

Cell surface CD70 expression was also evaluated in panels of Hodgkin s disease Table 3 and glioblastoma cell lines Table 4 . The copy number of CD70 molecules expressed by each cell line was determined by quantitative flow cytometry using the QIFIKit Dako Carpinteria Calif. .

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying figures. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Various references including patent applications patents and scientific publications are cited herein the disclosures of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

