---

title: Gas generator launcher for small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)
abstract: The launching of an unmanned projectile includes pre-packaging a barrel with a projectile, a pusher cup, and a gas generator. The gas generator generates gas to propel the projectile out of the barrel. A pressure chamber increases a pressure of the gas in the barrel. The pressure chamber comprises a front body portion connected to the gas generator; an aft body portion connected to the front body portion and the gas generator; and a vent sleeve positioned around the front body portion and adapted to provide an aperture through which the gas exits the barrel in order to control a level of gas pressure in the barrel. A triggering of the gas generator causes the pusher cup to push the projectile out of the barrel at a predetermined launch velocity in order to attain a predetermined self-propelled flight trajectory, wherein the triggering causes the pusher cup to exit the barrel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07739938&OS=07739938&RS=07739938
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07739938
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070915
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 846 592 and entitled Gas Generator Launcher for Small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAVs filed on Sep. 22 2006 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payments of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to weapon deployment systems and more particularly to weapon deployment systems used for small unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs .

UAVs are typically used in military operations such as for surveillance. Typical launchers used for UAVs are generally large cumbersome or costly to use and sometimes require multiple people to operate require special handling for proper deployment and often require hand assembly of the UAV. Conventional launchers for launching small fixed wing UAVs in the military include hydraulic electric rail guns elastic band type launchers pneumatic launchers and hand launchers. However there remains a need for a novel weapons launcher for small UAVs capable of being used by one person in a rapid simple and cost effective manner.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a system for launching an unmanned projectile wherein the system comprises a barrel comprising the projectile a pusher cup positioned behind the projectile guide rails adapted to prevent the projectile from rotating in the barrel and a gas generator adapted to generate gas to propel the projectile out of the barrel. The system further comprises a pressure chamber operatively connected to the barrel wherein the barrel extends out of a first end of the pressure chamber wherein the pressure chamber is adapted to increase a pressure of the gas in the barrel and wherein the pressure chamber comprises a front body portion operatively connected to the barrel an aft body portion operatively connected to the front body portion and the gas generator and a vent sleeve positioned around the front body portion and adapted to provide an aperture through which the gas exits the barrel in order to control a level of gas pressure in the barrel. The system further comprises a stand operatively connected to the aft body portion wherein the stand is rotatable with respect to the barrel wherein a triggering of the gas generator causes the pusher cup to push the projectile out of the barrel at a predetermined launch velocity in order to attain a predetermined self propelled flight trajectory and wherein the triggering causes the pusher cup to exit the barrel.

Preferably the gas generator utilizes approximately 24Vdc of external electrical power to initiate functioning of the gas generator. Moreover the pressure chamber may comprise a plurality of interconnected sections adapted to vent propulsion gases created by the gas generator upon launch of the projectile. Additionally the barrel the projectile the gas generator and the pusher cup are preferably expendable after each launch of the projectile. Furthermore the vent sleeve may comprise a gas deflector adapted to redirect the vented propulsion gases forward and away from a user standing behind the barrel. Also the pusher cup preferably has a higher aerodynamic drag and lower inertia than the projectile wherein as the projectile and the pusher cup exit the barrel the higher aerodynamic drag and lower inertia of the pusher cup causes a rapid deceleration and separation of the pusher cup from the projectile thereby allowing the projectile to continue a ballistic flight path prior to transition to a self propelled flight.

Another embodiment provides a method of launching unmanned projectiles wherein the method comprises inserting a projectile into a barrel comprising a pusher cup positioned behind the projectile attaching a gas generator to the barrel connecting the gas generator and the barrel to a pressure chamber initiating the gas generator to generate gas pressurizing the gas introducing the pressurized gas into the barrel selectively venting the pressurized gas out of the barrel to control a level of gas pressure in the barrel and the pressurized gas exerting force on the pusher cup causing the pusher cup to push the projectile out of the barrel at a predetermined launch velocity in order to attain a predetermined self propelled flight trajectory wherein the force causes the pusher cup to exit the barrel.

Preferably the increase in the pressure creates a dynamic force applied to an upstream side of the pusher cup causing acceleration of the pusher cup and the projectile. Additionally the pusher cup preferably has a higher aerodynamic drag and lower inertia than the projectile wherein as the projectile and the pusher cup exit the barrel the higher aerodynamic drag and lower inertia of the pusher cup causes a rapid deceleration and separation of the pusher cup from the projectile thereby allowing the projectile to continue a ballistic flight path prior to transition to a self propelled flight. Also the method may further comprise redirecting the vented gas forward and away from a user standing behind the barrel. Moreover the inserting and attaching processes may occur in a pre packaging of the barrel to include the projectile the pusher cup and the gas generator. Additionally prior to the initiating process the method may further comprise attaching the pressure chamber to a launcher mount assembly wherein the pressure chamber is adapted to pressurize the gas wherein the connecting process creates sufficient electrical and mechanical connections to allow the projectile to be prepared for launch.

Preferably the pre packaging of the barrel to include the projectile the pusher cup and the gas generator allows for a repeatable launch operation comprising launching the projectile and replacing of a spent barrel with a new pre packaged barrel comprising a new projectile a new pusher cup and a new gas generator. Preferably the gas generator utilizes approximately 24Vdc of external electrical power to initiate functioning of the gas generator.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

As mentioned there remains a need for a novel weapons launcher for small UAVs capable of being used by one person in a rapid simple and cost effective manner. The embodiments herein achieve this by providing a compact easy to use and cost effective gas generator launcher for small UAVs that uses a common initiation source variable venting re direction of propulsion gases and uses a short disposable barrel with an attached gas generator which houses and environmentally protects an internally preloaded UAV and pusher cup. The small gas generator is used to accelerate the UAV to flight speed as it travels down the barrel that also acts as a storage and shipping container for the UAV itself. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

The barrel is affixed to the front body portion of the pressure chamber which may be made of aluminum via a locking mechanism best shown in that allows for easy connection and removal of the barrel . Any suitable locking mechanism may be used that facilitates a proper securing of the barrel to the front body portion and likewise which can allow for easy removal of the barrel from the front body portion . Along the interior length of the barrel are a plurality of barrel rails for example two barrel rails that guide a UAV or other type of projectile shown for example as a cylindrical projectile in that is loaded in the barrel as it travels down the barrel upon launch. Along the exterior barrel wall the gas generator is mounted on the grooved base in such a position so that when the barrel is attached to the front body portion via the locking mechanism the gas generator also becomes properly connected to the launcher . An example of a gas generator that may be used is the S 100 multipurpose inflator available from Talley Defense Systems Arizona USA. In one embodiment the gas generator is approximately eight inches long and has a one inch diameter. Moreover in one embodiment the gas generator may be powered by TAL 1309 propellant also available from Talley Defense Systems which upon ignition produces no toxic or flammable products.

The gas generator also incorporates an electrical interface which is adjacent to electrical interface of the second portion of the pressure conduit which allows for the connection of electrical leads not shown as the barrel is attached to the pressure chamber . The barrel is expendable after use and thus contains its own gas generator as well as a pre loaded UAV and pusher cup allowing for easy shipping and transportation. To facilitate the propelling of the UAV down the barrel the pusher cup is used. The pusher cup which is further illustrated in may be embodied as a lightweight piston that has an outer diameter slightly smaller than the inner diameter of the barrel providing a low friction pressure seal feature. As best shown in the pusher cup is placed behind the UAV in the barrel providing a uniform surface that the pressurized gases are acting upon ensuring a consistent and repeatable launch velocity. The barrel rails guide the pusher cup as the pusher cup travels down the barrel . With reference to in order to facilitate proper seating in the barrel the pusher cup comprises rail slides configured on opposite sides of the outer wall of the pusher cup which mate with the barrel rails of the barrel to allow the pusher cup to slide in the barrel without rotating. When seated in the barrel a pushing wall contacts the UAV and after the pusher cup pushes the UAV out of the barrel the pusher cup simply falls away from the UAV a short distance from the barrel upon exit due to its higher drag.

The launcher is operatively connected to the launcher mount which allows for positioning of the launcher at various angles. As illustrated in the launcher mount is generally composed of three pieces a rectangular base with multiple tapped holes for connection to two triangular sides . Moreover each of the sides comprise a hole . illustrates the barrel in more detail. As shown in the barrel rails are located on diametrically opposite sides of the inside of the barrel . Moreover the grooved base is shown extending outward from the exterior barrel wall such that the shape of the grooved base is configured to allow for proper seating of the gas generator thereon.

As mentioned the pressure chamber comprises a front body portion an aft body portion and a vent sleeve . illustrates a fully assembled pressure chamber including the first portion of the pressure conduit and second portion of the pressure conduit . The front body portion as depicted in is generally cylindrically shaped and has a plurality of large vent holes which are cut into the middle wall of the front body portion and which are covered by the vent sleeve best shown in . The front body portion has a locking mechanism configured in the lip of the front body portion to secure the barrel to front body portion . An angled neck portion connects the lip to the middle wall of the front body portion which terminates with a generally cylindrical trunk . As shown in the vent sleeve is generally cylindrically shaped and is hollow to fit over the front body portion . The vent sleeve comprises a curved wall with a gas deflector attached so that when the vent holes are opened the vent sleeve will direct the escaping gases towards the front body portion of the launcher rather than the aft body portion so as to prevent any injuries to personnel located behind or to the side of the launcher . The vent sleeve which may be composed of aluminum and the front body portion are both rotatable so that the position of the vent sleeve with respect to the front body portion can be varied to either open or close the vent holes to allow different quantities of the generated gas to be released into the atmosphere. The vent holes can be opened or closed by turning the handles of the vent sleeve . When the vent holes are sealed the launcher is in the maximum muzzle velocity condition. By increasing the amount of venting the exit velocity of the UAV can be reduced.

Next illustrate the aft body portion of the pressure chamber of . The aft body portion is also generally cylindrically shaped with an attached first portion of the pressure conduit and second portion of the pressure conduit . The aft body portion comprises an enlarged first portion comprising flat surfaces each comprising a hole to align with hole of the launcher mount of for attachment thereto via attachment means shown in FIG. A which may comprise screws bolts rivets pins etc. The holes with the attachment means allow for the pressure chamber to be rotatable with respect to the launcher mount . The aft body portion comprises an open end that terminates to a base that connects to the hole . Moreover the aft body portion further includes a smaller second portion that provides for the attachment of the first portion of the pressure conduit to the open end via hole .

With respect to to assemble the launcher the barrel is attached i.e. screwed etc. to the front body portion . Again the barrel is pre packaged with a UAV pusher cup and gas generator attached. In this step the gas generator is aligned with the second portion of the pressure conduit of the pressure chamber . Preferably the gas generator comprises electrical interface and the second portion of the pressure conduit comprises electrical interface such that when the gas generator and second portion of the pressure conduit are aligned with one another the electrical interfaces also become aligned with respect to one another. The vent sleeve is attached i.e. screwed etc. onto the front body portion from the rear. The aft body portion is then attached i.e. screwed etc. onto the front body portion . The two mount sides are attached i.e. screwed etc. to the base . Then the aft body portion is attached i.e. screwed etc. to the mount sides and then the barrel is positioned at the desired angle. The electrical interface is included with the gas generator and terminates with wire leads not shown . After the initial assembly to repeat the launch operation only the barrel with the attached gas generator of the launcher would need to be removed and replaced with a new barrel with the pre packaged UAV pusher cup and gas generator .

Thereafter the launcher is ready to be fired. To fire the launcher an external electrical signal is sent to the gas generator via electrical interface beginning the pyrotechnic event and causing an almost instantaneous increase in pressure in the front body portion of the pressure expansion chamber . As the pressure builds a dynamic force is applied to the upstream side of the pusher cup and both the pusher cup and UAV begin accelerating down the barrel . As the UAV and pusher cup exit the barrel the higher aerodynamic drag of the pusher cup causes its rapid deceleration and separation from the UAV allowing the UAV to continue its ballistic flight path prior to its transition to self propelled flight. After launching the UAV the launcher is ready to fire another UAV simply by replacing the barrel with the preloaded UAV and pusher cup contained therein and the gas generator affixed to the exterior of the barrel . The barrel is preferably disposable and depending on the situation can either be discarded or used again by preparing the used barrel with a new gas generator pusher cup and UAV .

The calculations below provide the validity that the gas generator has the capacity to accelerate the UAV to required velocities. For the purpose of this analysis it is assumed that the gas generator is a Talley S 100 multipurpose inflator and that the UAV is a folding wing design requiring a launch velocity of 30 m s to transition to flight. Two separate approaches to this problem are described. The first uses the ideal gas law PV nRT 1 in which 

This approach assumes that the temperature remains constant during the pyrotechnic event and further discounts the expansion of the volume as the pusher cup moves along the barrel . As the gas cools temperature decreases the pressure also decreases according to Equation 1 . For example TAL 1309 propellant tends to demonstrate a slow decline in pressure after approximately 0.018 seconds. The TAL 1309 propellant has a flame temperature of 1 274 C. which implies that the gas generated is quite hot. Although the gas generator does have heat sinks the gas exiting the gas generator will still be at an elevated temperature. Since the time scale of the ignition is much shorter than the time it takes for the gas to cool it is reasonable to assume that the gas is at a constant temperature from the time it is generated to the time it fills the pressure chamber .

Again using the material properties of TAL 1309 as an example PV 5 094 Pa mat t 0.018 s. The amount of volume available in the pressure chamber when the UAV and pusher cup are in their starting position is approximately 0.004 mand the area of the pusher cup upon which the pressure is applied is 7.85 10m. A fourth order approximation of the pressure curve can be generated with an Rvalue of 0.9815 1 10 2 10 1 10 3 1016985 2 in which P is pressure in Pascals and t is time in seconds. However Equation 2 represents the pressure curve given a 1 ftvolume 0.0283 m . The relationship PV PV 3 shows that to accurately scale the pressure a factor of

The relationship between velocity and position can be used to determine the position of the UAV at t. 10 in which s is the position.

The second analysis aims to provide better estimate of the effects of the expanding control volume. Given the results of the previous analysis it appears likely that the launch event will take approximately 0.008 seconds. There is a short time delay from the initiation of the launch event until the gas generator starts building pressure. In a launcher application this time lag would be ignored since the analysis only begins at the initiation of the pressure buildup. Therefore a linear approximation of the pressure curve is created that runs from time t 0.002 seconds until t 0.017. This approximation is calculated to be 1.314 102.857 10. 11 

With this approximation and the previously calculated launch time the average pressure of the gas generator in the 1 ftcontrol volume from t 0 to t 0.008 seconds is 53 986 Pa. Given the average pressure and volume of the pressure chamber PV 53 986 Pa 0.0283 m 1 527.9 Nm. The control volume of the launcher at t 0 is the volume of the pressure chamber which is approximately 0.0016 m. By Equation 10 the pressure P is 954.9 kPa. At the moment when the UAV is exiting the barrel the control volume is 0.0016 mplus the volume of the barrel 0.0025 m. At that time the pressure in the barrel P is 363.8 kPa. If it is assumed that the increase in volume is linear the average value of the pressure is equal to 

Both analyses indicate that the gas generator is capable of providing the needed pressure for achieving launch velocity. However if it is determined that the gas generator is not producing the required pressure the length of the barrel can be altered by the addition of another 15.5 inch section to the barrel . This would increase the launch velocity by increasing the time that the pressure is applied to the pusher cup .

For Talley S 100 multipurpose inflators with the optional slow burn rate the first analysis can be recalculated with a sixth order polynomial for the pressure curve approximation. The pressure curve approximation is 6.144 10 2.212 10 3.172 10 2.307 10 8.909 10 1.682 101310. 16 The velocity can be calculated by the substitution of Equation 15 into Equation 8 . The position s can be calculated by the integration of the obtained velocity equation. The velocity and position are shown in respectively.

These calculations indicate that the UAV will be traveling at approximately 50 m s minimum when it exits the barrel at 0.39 m with the slower burn gas generators . With the second approach when the average pressure in the pressure chamber is found the predicted linear approximation of the pressure is given by 1.2781 104.6713 10. 17 After iteration the launch duration is assumed to be 0.021415 seconds and the calculated value is 0.021438 seconds. The predicted launch velocity given this time duration is 36.38 m s.

The structural analysis of the aft body portion predicts that the maximum stress during launch would be 36.7 MPa around the hole for the bolt that carries the main load of the launcher . This maximum Von Mises stress occurs at 0.018 seconds from ignition of the gas generator . Similar analysis of the vent sleeve and the front body portion is also conducted with the same parameters listed previously. The maximum stress in the vent sleeve is calculated to be 49.4 MPa and also occurs at 0.018 seconds. These analyses demonstrate that the physical design of the launcher is sufficiently robust to withstand the launch pressures caused by the gas generator when constructed of structural grade aluminum.

The use of a gas generator allows for a compact launcher without the need for compressors or compressed gas canisters. The only external input required for such a launcher would be electrical power to initiate the gas generator . Such a system allows for the launcher to sit in a state of readiness for long periods of time without the need for maintenance and it could be fired at a moment s notice from the cabin of a ground vehicle not shown .

Additionally the method may further comprise redirecting the vented gas forward and away from a user standing behind the barrel wherein the redirection of the vented gas extends to a cone angle of approximately 25 degrees from a geometric longitudinal centerline of the barrel outward. Preferably the inserting and attaching processes occur in a pre packaging of the barrel to include the projectile the pusher cup and the gas generator wherein prior to the initiating process the method may further comprise attaching the pressure chamber which is adapted to pressurize the gas to a launcher mount assembly wherein the connecting process creates sufficient electrical and mechanical connections to allow the projectile to be prepared for launch. Furthermore the pre packaging of the barrel to include the projectile the pusher cup and the gas generator allows for a repeatable launch operation comprising launching the projectile and replacing of a spent barrel with a new pre packaged barrel comprising a new projectile a new pusher cup and a new gas generator . Preferably the gas generator utilizes approximately 24Vdc of external electrical power to initiate functioning of the gas generator .

The launcher is compact in size and utilizes a common initiation source i.e. approximately 24Vdc . Moreover the launcher allows for simple manually hand actuated variable venting and re directing of propulsion gases prior to launch varying muzzle velocity and setback axial acceleration depending on the physical characteristics or properties of the projectile . The benefit of re directing the propulsion gases is that it helps prevent injuries to operators located directly behind or to the side of the launcher . Moreover using a gas generator eliminates the need for extraneous pressure source components such as a separate gas reservoir and gas compressor tank thereby resulting in a much smaller footprint than conventional launchers and enabling deployment of UAVs with little preparation time.

Additionally the launcher provides an improved alternative to the overall unattractive relatively large footprint volume mass properties of most other conventional launchers. In addition the use of a commercially available gas generator provides for a unique instantaneous source of propulsion gas for launching small UAVs at relatively low setback accelerations and at relatively high muzzle velocities within relatively short barrel travel distances. The variable venting feature allows the launcher to launch UAVs of various mass without the need of redesigning the front body portion and barrel of the launcher or without the need of specifying a different size or model of gas generator . Another unique feature of the launcher is the relatively quick setup and subsequent launch method it affords which utilizes a pre packaged UAV and pusher cup within the barrel that is fitted with the integral gas generator as well that is easily secured onto the front body portion of the launcher as a single entity and then discarded after the UAV is deployed. The launcher may be used in a variety of applications including recreational uses as a means of delivering small novelty items or T shirts to large audiences at concerts sporting events or other recreational functions. Additionally the launcher may be used in military police or fire department applications such as grappling hook launcher decoy launcher or flare delivery launcher scenarios.

In military applications the launcher because of its relatively small size could be mounted on a light military ground vehicle such as the U.S. Army s high mobility multi purpose wheeled vehicle HMMWV . This vehicle mounted launcher could also allow for remote launch from inside the HMMWV s cabin thus protecting the crew from enemy fire during launch operations. The launcher used in this configuration can achieve a muzzle exit velocity of approximately 30 to 40 m s 98.4 ft s to 131.2 ft s to facilitate transition of the UAV to level powered flight at which time the UAV is capable of self flight through the use of propeller and deployable fins wings for example.

The gas generator acts as a pressure source to propel the UAV out of the disposable barrel that also acts as a storage container for the UAV . The onetime use gas generator attached to the launcher is initiated by an electrical current supplied by a portable power source not shown on board the ground vehicle not shown . Fully enclosing the UAV in its own disposable barrel provides added logistical and minimal setup time benefits. A temporarily connected umbilical cable not shown from the UAV to the exterior barrel wall could provide pre launch communication thus allowing for health status battery charging turn on and initialization target location uploading and other functions.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

