---

title: Devices, systems and methods for vibrotactile stimulation and non-invasive neurological screening
abstract: Devices, systems, methods, and computer program products are disclosed for non-invasive diagnosis and screening of neurological disorders. Spatio-temporal mapping can be utilized between the skin and the central nervous system to rapidly, painlessly and quantitatively assess functional connectivity in the central nervous system. Stimulation drivers can be independently operated to control the movement of stimulators to achieve a variety of desired stimulation parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08425429&OS=08425429&RS=08425429
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 08425429
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070529
---
This application is a 35 U.S.C. 371 national stage application of PCT Application No. US2007 012620 filed May 29 2007 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 808 923 filed May 26 2006. The disclosure of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 808 923 is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with U.S Government support under the National Institutes of Health RO1 grant NS043375. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present subject matter generally relates to non invasive analysis of human cortical cortical interactions. More particularly the present subject matter relates to devices systems methods and computer program products for vibrotactile stimulation and neurological screening by analysis of cortical cortical interactions and comparisons to normal cortical function.

One of the intriguing questions in the field of systems neuroscience is the impact that cortical cortical interactions have on a how a subject perceives and discriminates various sensory stimuli. A number of neurological diseases have been found or have been predicted to be the result of abnormal connectivity between different regions of the brain. These neurological diseases include but are not limited to autism schizophrenia Alzheimer s and attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder ADHD . Despite the knowledge of this correlation the functional connectivity between brain regions is quite difficult to study and most studies currently employ methods that are not only high in cost such as fMRI but also in the amount of time that it takes to make the observations necessary to gain insight into the interactions that take place between different cortical regions.

It would therefore be advantageous to provide devices and methods for performing diagnostic tests that can directly and non invasively measure cortical cortical interactions of a subject and also provide devices that can rapidly painlessly and quantitatively assess functional connectivity in the central nervous system.

In accordance with this disclosure devices systems methods and computer program products for vibrotactile stimulation and neurological screening are provided. It is therefore an object of the present disclosure to provide devices systems methods and computer program products for performing diagnostic tests that can directly and non invasively measure cortical cortical interactions of a subject. Another object of the present disclosure is to provide devices systems methods and computer program products that can rapidly painlessly and quantitatively be used to assess functional connectivity in the central nervous system. These and other objects as can become apparent from the present disclosure are achieved at least in whole or in part by the subject matter described herein.

The subject matter described herein can be implemented as a computer program product comprising computer executable instructions embodied in a computer readable medium. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein can include disk memory devices chip memory devices application specific integrated circuits programmable logic devices downloadable electrical signals and or any other suitable computer readable media. In addition a computer program product that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform. Alternatively the subject matter described herein can be implemented on a computer program product that is distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

Reference will now be made in detail to possible embodiments of the present subject matter one or more examples of which are shown in the figures. Each example is provided to explain the subject matter and not as a limitation. In fact features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can be used in another embodiment to yield still a further embodiment. It is intended that the present subject matter cover such modifications and variations.

It has been shown that direct and noninvasive testing can demonstrate a high degree of correlation between changes in sensory perception and the response predicted by cortical data obtained from a number of animal studies. For example simple neurological measures can be used to assess differences from normal cortical function. One such neurological measure referred to as two point discrimination involves the observation that when two points are placed closely on the skin they can feel as though they are one point. At some point in time the two points can be perceived as two points as they are moved farther apart. It has further been shown that the response of a test subject exhibiting normal cortical cortical interactions to two point discrimination can improve under some conditions of vibrotactile stimulation and be made worse in other conditions. These findings indicate that the cortical cortical interactions observed in a normal sensory cortex play a major role in sensory perception.

Subjects having neurological diseases disorders or disruptions such as autism schizophrenia Alzheimer s ADHD chronic pain traumatic brain injury TBI and migraine however exhibit altered cortical functionality that can be detected with dynamic sensory testing. In particular the fundamental building blocks necessary for normal cortical information processing in some neurological disorders or neurological states can be altered in such a way as to limit the functional connectivity within and between the fundamental components of cortical circuitry.

Generally the integration of information from two closely spaced stimuli depends on the integration of both spatial and temporal information. It has been found according to the present subject matter however that in individuals having certain neurological disorders such as those noted above this integration of information does not occur properly. In such subjects there is a significant measurable difference between the observations obtained from these subjects and control subjects. As a result the devices systems methods and computer program products disclosed herein can be used to study not only neurological disorders such as those noted above but can also be used to evaluate the efficacy of therapies pharmacological or otherwise on subjects afflicted with disorders as a diagnostic screening tool for the early detection of a wide variety of neurological disorders and or to track the progression of any centrally mediated neurological disorder.

The devices systems methods and computer program products disclosed herein can also be used in conjunction with other tests and treatments. For example by adding the diagnostic methods disclosed to a patient s other physical and neurological tests the decision to return an athlete to competition or a soldier to active duty after mild or traumatic brain injury MBI or TBI could be made with greater confidence and with less risk of re injury. Diagnostic evaluations of treatments administered to TBI patients can also be improved with the additional information provided by these metrics.

The information provided by these devices systems methods and computer program products can lead to more effective diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for the as many as 1 in 166 births that result in a child with autism. Applications of these methods to other central nervous system CNS disorders may prove beneficial as well.

The disclosed subject matter can help with the establishment of baseline biomarkers of aging. In this way primary health care workers can be given a method that would aid in the early diagnosis and possible intervention in subjects with Alzheimer s. Though statistics range significantly in the literature Alzheimer s has been claimed to affect as high as 50 of the population by the age of 85.

Chronic pain is highly prevalent in the geriatric population and at present there are few tools and procedures that enable healthcare providers to make informed decisions regarding the diagnosis and treatment choices for a variety of chronic pain conditions. The disclosed devices systems methods and computer program products provide such a tool.

The disclosed subject matter can also aid in the development of novel pharmaceuticals that may benefit individuals in professions that operate on minimal sleep. Additionally data from this research area can allow diagnostics in other clinical areas to be more accurate if baseline effects of sleep deprivation and or fatigue can be accounted for.

Quantitative metrics generated by the diagnostic system can aid health care providers with a means to assess the impact of drug administration on the CNS. Current collaborative studies aim to assess the efficacy of drugs used for the treatment of chronic alcohol abuse.

With the establishment of baseline values from a significant database cortical metrics obtained from individual patients can aid health care providers to objectively diagnose the general cortical health of a patient. It is anticipated that cerebral cortical health could be assessed in a manner similar to the way that blood pressure is used to assess the health of the heart and circulatory system. Measures outside the normal range for a patient demographic age gender ethnicity etc. could provide guidelines to further diagnosis and possible intervention

Accordingly in one aspect the disclosed subject matter provides devices systems methods and computer program products for obtaining objective measures for how well cortical regions that are spaced at varying distances interact with one another. To date observations obtained have involved interactions that take place between cortical areas that are activated by different types of skin stimulation. It should be noted that in general all of the cortex develops in the same way and is organized in a similar fashion and developmental and degeneration problems often affect all parts of the cortex similarly. Closely aligned cortical regions can be activated by stimulating regions of the skin that are very close cortical regions that are far away from each other may be activated by stimulating skin sites that are either remote to one another such as stimulating skin sites on opposite hands or by stimulating skin sites with stimuli of varying modality that activate very different cortical areas.

Referring to one example of a vibrotactile stimulation device generally designated is provided for the direct and noninvasive diagnostic testing of cortical cortical interactions through vibrotactile stimulation. Stimulators can extend from vibrotactile stimulation device for providing vibrotactile stimulation to a test subject as part of a diagnostic test procedure. In this regard a test subject can be positioned beneath the free ends of stimulators which can be positioned in near contact with the test subject. Stimulators can be driven to apply a stimulus to the test subject where the subject s response to the stimulus can be recorded and compared to known response patterns.

As shown in stimulation drivers of vibrotactile stimulation device can be operatively coupled to stimulators to drive the local movement of stimulators . For example stimulation drivers can be vibration generators provided as voice coil actuators VCAs or other suitable mechanisms that can respond to electric signals to precisely control the movement of stimulators . The VCA stimulation drivers can then be coupled to stimulators by linkage e.g. four bar linkage to translate the motion of the VCA to vertical oscillation of stimulators . Stimulation drivers can be independently operated to control the movement of stimulators to achieve stimulation parameters such as without limitation the amplitude of oscillation frequency of oscillation phase relationship of multiple stimulators onset time duration of stimulation vertical displacement of each stimulator e.g. at least 2 mm lateral displacement of each stimulator and force offset. For example the stimulation drivers can be provided such that they are capable of driving each stimulator from DC to at least 200 Hz with displacements of at least 2 mm at DC to at least 100 microns at 200 Hz . A waveform generator e.g. DAC can be used to provide a sinusoidal signal to the stimulation drivers . The waveform generator can be provided as a separate component in communication with the vibrotactile stimulation device or it may be integrated within the vibrotactile stimulation device .

Stimulation drivers can be independently controlled but the operation of stimulation drivers can still be coordinated. In this regard oscillations of stimulators can occur and be driven while maintaining spatial and temporal relationships between stimulators . Despite this coordination stimulation drivers can still be capable of independent and spatio temporally coupled control of respective stimulators in terms of vibration oscillation.

As depicted in independent positioning systems can be provided to drive larger scale movement of each of stimulators . In the illustrated embodiment motors power the movement of positioning systems associated with each of stimulators . In this way the vertical position of stimulators can be adjusted to accommodate different sizes of test subjects positioned beneath the tips of stimulators . Additionally positioning systems can be used to adjust the horizontal position of stimulators changing the separation between the tips of stimulators .

For instance in one embodiment positioning systems can each include a pair of stepper motors coupled to power screws for operating an x y table i.e. motors driving the rotation of power screws such that traveler block translates along guide rails . One stepper motor can be for driving movement of each stimulator in a horizontal i.e. lateral direction and the other stepper motor can be for driving vertical movement. In this manner stimulators can be raised or lowered to the desired position and the horizontal spacing between stimulators can be adjusted from zero i.e. stimulators touching to a maximum separation e.g. 30 mm each from center 60 mm total .

In conjunction with positioning system stimulation drivers can further be used not only to drive the oscillation of stimulators II but to detect contact with the test subject and or the force of such contact. In this way stimulation drivers can provide feedback to the positioning system during initial vertical positioning of the stimulators to help set the stimulators at or near the test subject. For instance the stimulator position at which the stimulation drivers register a 0.1 0.2 g change in resistive force can be interpreted as the point at which the stimulator makes initial contact with the test subject.

In this arrangement vibrotactile stimulation device can be used for precise positioning and operation of stimulators in a variety of positions for the administration of a wide range of somatosensory testing. illustrate some of the many configurations possible through the operation of positioning systems and stimulation drivers . For example stimulators can be operated one at a time see or simultaneously at a variety of positions e.g. stimulators relatively close to each other in and spaced more apart in .

Position sensors can also be provided to monitor the vertical position of stimulators . Position sensors can be integrated with a proportional integral derivative PID control system to monitor and correct the displacement of stimulators to ensure the oscillations of stimulators are in accordance with the desired parameters. Position sensors that cause low levels of drag and or hysteresis on the movement of stimulators such as an optical sensor can promote the efficient operation of vibrotactile stimulation device .

Referring to microprocessor can be incorporated either within vibrotactile stimulation device or connected externally e.g. via USB to provide inputs to the control devices of vibrotactile stimulation device . Such inputs can include the horizontal position i.e. x position and vertical position i.e. y position to each of positioning systems or the stimulation parameters e.g. amplitude frequency phase relationship to stimulation drivers . A response signal generator can transmit a response to the stimuli from the test subject to microprocessor which can be used to assess the cortical function of the test subject. Examples of response signal generator can include a push button foot pedal or means for computer recognition of the test subject s vocal response to the stimuli.

The sensory testing provided by vibrotactile stimulation device can enable the objective evaluation of the elaborate neuroanatomical connectivity that sub serves the neuronal communication between adjacent and near adjacent regions within sensory cortex that is widely recognized to be essential to normal sensory function. Although this intra cortical communication can involve numerous mechanisms diagnostic testing using vibrotactile stimulation device can be specifically sensitive to the status of mechanisms currently believed by many to play major roles in the disorders of sensory cortical information processing that all too frequently compromise quality of life in a number of neurologically compromised individuals i.e. neurotransmission mediated by the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma aminobutyric acid GABA and by N methyl d aspartate NMDA receptors and interactions interdependencies between neurons and glial cells .

In one particular embodiment vibrotactile stimulation device can employ embedded control of two separate miniaturized vibratory coils controlled by embedded micro power microcontrollers with high current output drive circuitry and an embedded USB interface to a laptop using the Microchip PIC18LF4550 microcontroller family. At least two separate stimulators that can be spatially separated from 0.5 to 60 mm on an X Y grid can be controlled with identical and or different amplitudes and frequencies with selectable phases. Stimulators can deliver vibrotactile stimuli in the range of 0 to 300 microns peak to peak amplitude at frequencies in the range from 1 to 300 Hz. The entire system can further be mounted on a lightweight system that is mounted or otherwise coupled e.g. Velcro straps on the subject s forearm.

Stimulators can include additional functionality to enable an even broader range of sensory testing. For instance the tips of stimulators in contact with the test subject can be temperature variable to introduce an additional character to the applied stimulus or the size of the tips of stimulators can be varied to alter the sensory stimulus. Further stimulation drivers can provide not only a vertical oscillation but also a lateral stimulus again altering the applied stimuli to broaden the range of sensory testing.

Use of vibrotactile stimulation device described above allows for the initiation of a large scale study of the dynamic sensory discriminative deficits that undoubtedly occur in a population of subjects that utilizes cortical strategies that are very different from the normal subject population. Additionally the detection of pharmacological effects is also possible and provides researchers studying neurological disorders with an effective means for objectively measuring the effect that administered drugs have on the cortical information processing capabilities of a subject.

Accordingly in another aspect the disclosed subject matter provides devices systems methods and computer program products for performing diagnostic tests that can directly and non invasively measure the cortical cortical interactions of a subject. Briefly it is believed that the changes that take place in the cerebral cortex due to oxidative and or metabolic stress chronic pain aging and or trauma disturb the operation of normal cerebral cortical circuitry through the resulting degradation of synaptic function and neuronal and or glial loss and degradation. The broad spectrum of changes that occur with systemic alterations in cerebral cortical function can be found in a wider array of neocortical regions including the somatosensory cortex.

The methods described below have been designed with the principle hypothesis that systemic alterations in cerebral cortical circuitry lead to changes in certain aspects of sensory perception. As it is believed that infarcts or stresses on the central nervous system CNS lead to changes in overall astrocytic activity and or the status of the NMDA receptor system the methods that will be predominantly used will be those based on results from neurophysiological experiments that demonstrated the conditions in which those systems are most sensitive. Recent work has elucidated the often underestimated connection between human perception of tactile stimulation with the dynamic cortical interactions that are evoked in the somatosensory cortex. Several of these studies have shown that performance on psychophysical tasks can provide quantitative measures that strongly correlate with and thus could possibly be used to assess cortical function.

In each of the following sections the neurophysiological basis for the design of the human psychophysical experiment is described as well as the results obtained from such experiments. It should be noted that the sensory tests described herein are very different from the majority of prior art sensory tests for a number of reasons. The current tests can be administered with supra threshold stimuli rather than near threshold at dual skin sites rather than single sites and perhaps most importantly can be targeted at maximizing cortical cortical interactions rather than minimizing them . The tests described are exemplary of both the sensory testing methods that can be used as well as the approach that will be used to develop additional sensory testing methods.

Because of the lack of communication between cortical regions in subjects with sensory deficit disorders e.g. autism the modified stimuli cases see third and fourth cases do not produce the same change in sensory perception as in control subjects. Accordingly by measuring changes in sensory perception between applications of baseline and augmented stimuli deviation from a normal response can be observed. In this way neurological diseases disorders or disruptions can be identified.

In one aspect devices systems methods and computer program products according to the present subject matter can be used for noninvasive screening of neurological disorders wherein sets of simultaneous stimuli can be presented to the skin that differ only in the amplitude of the applied stimulus. As illustrated in a two interval forced choice tracking paradigm can be used to compare a standard stimulus e.g. 10 Hz flutter 200 m peak to peak several orders of magnitude above threshold with a test stimulus e.g. initial amplitude at 205 m . Both stimuli can be delivered simultaneously to the glabrous surface of two digit tips and the subject can be queried as to which stimulus is larger. The test subject can be queried as to which of the simultaneously delivered stimuli is larger. The amplitude of the test stimulus can be decreased with correct responses e.g. 2 correct responses and increased with incorrect response e.g. one incorrect response .

The positions of the standard and test stimuli can be varied randomly. Both stimuli can be delivered for a predefined period of time e.g. 0.5 seconds with an inter trial interval between applications of a stimulus e.g. 5 seconds . Results can be obtained from a number of sessions e.g. 10 sessions . Each session can consist of conditional runs at least one in which the test and standard stimuli can be delivered out of phase and at least another in which the stimuli can be delivered in phase. In the out of phase condition the starting phase of the sinusoid is randomly varied in order to prevent bias towards either the standard or the test stimulus.

On average a subject is able to accurately discriminate between amplitudes of 220.9 vs. 200 m under the condition of in phase stimulation and 210.5 vs. 200 m with out of phase stimulation. It is believed that this nearly two fold difference in discrimination ability is accounted for by cortical mechanisms that maximize the contrast between the activity evoked in adjacent and near adjacent cortical columns. Additionally it is thought that the enhanced contrast of the out of phase condition is brought about by the exaggerated difference of the stimulus condition when the test stimulus is on indent part of cycle and the standard stimulus is off .

Thus the cortex seems to be most interested in detecting and storing the largest differences between the two stimuli. Although a large body of work has demonstrated that differences in the perceived intensity of a stimulus can be accounted for by the magnitude of the evoked population response and or the firing rate performance of this method is based on the observation that timing differences in stimuli that evoke responses in adjacent and or near adjacent cortical columns can manifest themselves in detecting a percept that is most often associated with the magnitude of the cortical response.

As noted above because it is observed that subjects having some form of cortical diseases disorders or disruptions do not interpret complex stimuli the same way as the average subject due to failures in cortical cortical interaction an analysis of the test outcomes can be used to diagnose such diseases disorders or disruptions. In this regard after the in phase stimulation runs and out of phase stimulation runs are completed the two sets of data can be compared. The level of disparity between the ability to discriminate stimulus amplitudes in the two conditions or lack thereof can thus be compared to known relationships between such results. In this way the degree of functional connectivity between cortical areas can be objectively measurable.

Although this method as well as those embodiments that follow describes differences between healthy controls and subjects with a neurodevelopmental disorder it is noted that similar sensory tracking can be effective in detecting the onset of neurodegenerative disorders that afflict similar mechanisms.

Similarly varying the frequency of the test stimulus rather than the amplitude can improve the two point threshold in subjects exhibiting normal cortical cortical interaction. The reason this is significant is that it shows that a second pathway mediated through the addition of the high frequency stimulus improves sensory performance. With the neurologically abnormal subject e.g. autism subject there is little or no difference in this metric.

In this variation on the embodiment of the method described above stimulus dependent effects can be observed on two point tracking of a flutter stimulus at the dorsal surface of the attended hand. As illustrated in a standard stimulus and a test stimulus having an equivalent frequency can be applied simultaneously at a defined spacing. The test subject can then be queried as to whether two points or only a single point are perceived. If both points are perceived the spacing can be reduced if both points are not perceived the spacing can be increased. In this way the test subject s two point threshold can be identified.

The test can be repeated with a complex stimulus that is computational composite of a relatively low frequency e.g. 25 Hz and a relatively higher frequency e.g. 200 Hz . It has been found according to the present subject matter that the two point limen is reduced spatial acuity is improved with a complex stimulus of this kind. Specifically in subjects exhibiting normal cortical communication it is found that adding vibration to the unilateral two point flutter stimulus improved spatial acuity by 20 to 25 . This improvement is not found or is found to a lesser degree in test subjects with impaired cortical communication.

Accordingly as with the method above once the two series of tests are completed the two sets of data can be compared. The level of disparity between the two point discrimination thresholds or lack thereof can be compared to known relationships between such results. In this way the degree of functional connectivity between cortical areas can be objectively measurable.

In another embodiment devices systems methods and computer program products are provided for noninvasive screening of neurological disorders wherein bilateral stimuli those delivered to both hands simultaneously are added to a two point spatial localization test and the result of that addition is tracked.

Bilateral stimuli are processed very differently from unilateral stimuli likely the result of interactions that occur between primary somatosensory cortex SI and secondary somatosensory cortex SII these interactions take place both within the same hemisphere and between hemispheres . From animal studies it has been found according to the present subject matter that the SI activation evoked by a contralateral flutter stimulus decreased when an ipsilateral stimulus is applied simultaneously to a mirror symmetric skin site. This observation leads to the prediction that some aspect of perceptual ability that is attributable to SI information processing such as tactile spatial acuity would suffer during the delivery of ipsilateral skin stimulation.

Accordingly a method of this embodiment can involve evaluation of two point discriminative TPD capacity under stimulus conditions corresponding to those used in previous animal studies. As illustrated in two point limen tracking can be used to evaluate TPD in the presence of a simultaneous ipsilateral skin stimulus i.e. tracking is performed on an attended hand AH while a second stimulus can be delivered simultaneously to the unattended hand UH .

It has been found according to the present subject matter that a control subject s tactile spatial acuity is worsened by 20 with 25 Hz flutter and by 30 with 200 Hz vibratory stimulation of the corresponding site on the opposite hand. These findings are regarded as perceptual correlates of the results obtained in imaging studies of SI in squirrel monkeys. In contrast because some features of autism are thought to be attributable to defective interactions between the areas that comprise cerebral cortex it is believed that the subjects with such disorders exhibit non normal interactions that take place between SI and SII believed to be necessary for normal perception to occur. Specifically there is no significant difference in the ability of the autistic subject to track two point data when a second stimulus is delivered to the unattended hand as there is in the normal subject most likely because of aberrant callosal connections the connections running between the two hemispheres .

Accordingly as with the preceding methods once the two series of tests are completed the two sets of data can be compared. The level of disparity between the two point discrimination thresholds or lack thereof in the presence of stimulation of the unattended hand and in the absence of such ipsilateral stimulation can be compared to known relationships between such results. In this way the degree of functional connectivity between cortical areas can be objectively measurable.

In yet another embodiment devices systems methods and computer program products are provided for noninvasive screening of neurological disorders wherein a two interval forced choice 2IFC tracking protocol can be used to evaluate spatial localization. The subject is instructed to attend to the percept evoked by a vibrotactile stimulus e.g. 25 Hz 100 micron peak to peak amplitude . As illustrated in each trial can consist of three stimuli 1 an adapting stimulus e.g. either 5 or 0.5 sec in duration 2 a standard stimulus e.g. 0.5 sec delivered at the same site as the adapting stimulus and 3 a test stimulus e.g. 0.5 sec delivered to a skin site different from the standard stimulus. Unlike previous embodiments the standard stimulus and test stimulus do not need to be applied simultaneously. Duration of the inter stimulus ISI and inter trial ITI intervals can be held constant for all runs e.g. 2 and 30 sec respectively . All stimuli can be superimposed on a pedestal of skin indentation e.g. 500 m and following each stimulus the probe can be retracted to a position above the skin surface e.g. 500 m .

In each trial the adapting stimulus can be delivered at a randomly selected locus e.g. within the 20 mm array . The distance between the standard and test stimuli e.g. 10 mm in the 1st trial at the start of each run can be determined on the basis of subject performance. The subject can be instructed to report the interval during which the test stimulus is perceived to have occurred at the same skin site contacted by the adapting stimulus. If the subject chooses the correct interval the distance between the skin sites contacted by the test and standard stimulus can be reduced e.g. by 1 mm . If the incorrect interval is chosen the distance can be increased e.g. by 1 mm . This procedure can be repeated for a minimum number of trials e.g. 20 in an attempt to identify the minimally detectable separation spatial localization threshold between the test and standard stimuli under a given adaptation condition e.g. 5 sec vs. 0.5 sec . The order of the two adapting stimulus conditions e.g. 5 or 0.5 sec within a session can be randomized. Each subject can complete a number of sessions e.g. 10 where each can consist of two runs.

For this method sinusoidal vertical skin displacement stimuli can be delivered to the dorsum of the hand. A single stimulator e.g. 2 mm diameter can be positioned along a linear axis e.g. 20 mm long at incremental steps e.g. 1 mm steps step error of approximately 1 . The stimulator can be mounted on an adjustable mechanical arm with lockable joints that can be attached to a freestanding rigid platform that enables convenient adjustment and maintenance of stimulus position.

Spatial discrimination tasks generate similar psychometric functions at the fingertip and the hand dorsum differing essentially only by an order of magnitude. A transversally oriented linear array 20 mm in length on the hand dorsum can be selected to receive the stimulation because 1 innervation density across this skin region remains relatively constant 2 the surface is easily accessible and permits convenient stimulator placement 3 the surface is relatively flat reducing confounds of skin curvature present at other potential sites of stimulation and 4 it permits positioning of the subject s arm and hand in a comfortable and stable position for the full duration of an experimental session.

To eliminate potential confounding variables it is possible although not required to configure the test to include provisions to account for various sensory biases. To ensure the comfort of the subject and thereby help to minimize movement the subject can be seated in a chair with the right arm placed resting on an X ray bag filled with glass beads. The bag can be molded to fit the contours of the subject s arm and when the subject is comfortable and the arm positioned to allow unimpeded access of the stimulator to the center of the dorsal surface of the right hand the bag can be made rigid by evacuating it of air e.g. by connecting the bag to a vacuum line . To help eliminate external sensory bias the subject is unable to see either the experimenter or the stimulator and stimulus control instrumentation. Further white noise presented via headphones eliminates potential auditory cues.

For subjects having normal cortical connectivity i.e. control subjects an adaptation period e.g. 5 seconds generally results in a nearly two fold improvement in spatial discrimination over that achieved with a 0.5 second adaptation period. For individuals having abnormal cortical connectivity such as those with autism adaptation or conditioning does not have an effect on the ability of the subject to spatially localize a stimulus.

Again therefore once tests are completed both with the inclusion of an adaptation stimulus and without an adaptation stimulus the two sets of data can be compared. The level of disparity between the two point discrimination thresholds or lack thereof in the presence of adaptation stimulation and in the absence of such conditioning stimulation can be compared to known relationships between such results. In this way the degree of functional connectivity between cortical areas can be objectively measurable.

In still another embodiment devices systems methods and computer program products are provided for noninvasive screening of neurological disorders wherein Temporal Order Judgment testing TOJ or the ability to determine the temporal order of two stimuli sequentially delivered to the skin can be used to identify certain other neurological injuries or disorders. TOJ is typically on the order of 20 40 ms for healthy individuals however subjects diagnosed with dystonia dyslexia Parkinson s and TBI have all been shown to have TOJ measures at nearly two fold that found for controls. It is suggested that these differences point to a degradation in the performance of the basal ganglia and or cerebellum. Although most of the TOJ measures reported in current literature take between 30 120 minutes to obtain per subject the method disclosed herein takes approximately 2 3 minutes. Additionally the information is obtained about not only a subject s ability to assess temporal order but a subject s ability to spatially and temporally integrate information from two sequentially delivered stimuli.

It has been found according to the present subject matter that when a carrier frequency is added to the applied stimuli e.g. 25 Hz as background noise background at 100 microns stimulus pulse at 1000 microns there is a pronounced decrease in a subject s ability to determine the temporal order of the two stimuli delivered. It is noted that delivering a higher frequency background stimulus e.g. 200 Hz at the same intensity does not produce comparable results. It is thought that this difference exists because of the differences in cortical organization that result from low 25 Hz vs. high 200 Hz frequency stimulation. The more organized response evoked by the 25 Hz stimulus results in a worse performance in the TOJ measure.

Synchronization of the cortical ensembles responding to the simultaneous digit tip stimulation at a lower frequency e.g. 25 Hz makes it difficult to discriminate between the two sites. This measure since it is a simple indirect measure of synchronization can be important in assessing an important facet of cerebral cortical health. In particular if the NMDA receptor system is compromised the impact that synchronization will have on CNS system response will be reduced. Synchronization of cortical ensembles is a well documented feature of the CNS but it is difficult to quickly and quantitatively characterize.

Accordingly as illustrated in the method of this embodiment can involve the performance of a temporal order judgment test on the test subject. Two series of such tests can be performed at least one in which a background stimulus can be added to the applied stimuli and at least another in which no such background stimulus can be present. Once the series of tests are completed the two sets of data can be compared. The level of disparity between the time of temporal order judgment or failure to identify order in the presence of a low frequency stimulus and in the absence of such additional stimulation can be compared to known relationships between such results. In this way the degree of functional connectivity between cortical areas can be objectively measurable. For example in subjects with autism there is no degradation in performance with this added stimulus because of their lack of normal functional connectivity.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

