---

title: Method to fabricate a tilted logpile photonic crystal
abstract: A method to fabricate a tilted logpile photonic crystal requires only two lithographic exposures and does not require mask repositioning between exposures. The mask and photoresist-coated substrate are spaced a fixed and constant distance apart using a spacer and the stack is clamped together. The stack is then tilted at a crystallographic symmetry angle (e.g., 45 degrees) relative to the X-ray beam and rotated about the surface normal until the mask is aligned with the X-ray beam. The stack is then rotated in plane by a small stitching angle and exposed to the X-ray beam to pattern the first half of the structure. The stack is then rotated by 180° about the normal and a second exposure patterns the remaining half of the structure. The method can use commercially available DXRL scanner technology and LIGA processes to fabricate large-area, high-quality tilted logpile photonic crystals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07820365&OS=07820365&RS=07820365
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07820365
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070718
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to methods to fabricate three dimensional microstructures and in particular to a method to fabricate a tilted logpile photonic crystal.

Photonic crystals are the optical analogues of semiconductors. In a semiconductor the electronic bandgap arises as a result of a periodic array of electronic potentials defined by the material and its crystalline structure. In a photonic crystal the photonic bandgap arises as a result of a structured periodic variation in refractive index of two or more dielectric materials. Optical waves and frequencies lying within this forbidden bandgap cannot propagate through the photonic crystal without severe attenuation. In particular three dimensional 3 D photonic crystals exhibit omnidirectional reflection of incident waves for all directions and polarizations within the bandgap. The average wavelength of the photonic bandgap is approximately twice the lattice constant of the photonic crystal structure. Feature sizes associated with photonic crystals are on the order of one eighth the wavelength of light. These considerations suggest that these artificial photonic crystals can be engineered to have specific photonic properties by controlling the dimensions and materials comprising the lattice.

Just as semiconductors revolutionized electronics it is expected that photonic crystals will revolutionize optical computing and communications. However the field of photonic crystals is in its infancy. Development of photonic crystals has been hampered because the production of high quality photonic crystals currently requires expensive complex fabrications schemes. To replace conventional optical materials for integrated optical applications a simple low cost manufacturing process is needed for producing 3 D photonic crystals and embedding several other optical components onto a single chip.

Yablonovitch and John were the first to suggest a 3 D photonic crystal for optical applications. See E. Yablonovitch and T. J. Gmitter 63 1950 1989 and S. John 58 2486 1987 . Yablonovitch proposed that a slanted pore structure Yablonovite comprising two widely different indexes of refraction could be created by drilling periodic cylindrical holes with a diameter of between 0.1 and 0.2 of the desired wavelength into a slab at three different angular orientations. See E. Yablonovitch 10 283 1993 . The 3 D periodicity of the Yablonovite structure produced a photonic band gap to all angles of incident light with wavelengths approximately twice the lattice spacing.

Deep X ray lithography DXRL can be used to fabricate the 3 D Yablonovite structure. DXRL uses X rays generated by a synchrotron light source to pattern thick photoresist. X rays emitted from the light source are highly collimated and capable of patterning photoresist such as polymethyl methacrylate PMMA with critical dimensions of less than 1 m and aspect ratios significantly greater than 10 1. To fabricate Yablonovite with DXRL an X ray mask is needed that consists of a hexagonal array of round holes. This mask is mounted in near proximity to the surface of a thick layer of photoresist. It is then exposed three times using collimated X rays arriving from an elevation angle of 53 and from three azimuth angles 0 120 and 240 . See E. Yablonovitch and K. M. Leung 175 1 3 81 1991 . The Yablonovite structure has been successfully fabricated in PMMA by several researchers. See G. Feiertag et al. 71 11 1441 1997 C. Cuisin et al. 34 13 2002 and F. Romanato et al. 67 68 479 2003 .

However because there are circular holes in the Yablonovite structure mask and the X rays pass through the holes at a significant angle ellipses are patterned into the photoresist. X ray masks are typically 5 to 8 m thick so at the 37 angle of incidence the X rays are further vignetted. With this fabrication process Yablonovite comprising 6 m features or greater can be made with these thick masks but these large feature sizes are not particularly useful for mid IR applications. DXRL masks as thin as 0.7 m have been used to demonstrate Yablonovite patterns in PMMA with smaller feature sizes. However line broadening of the exposed PMMA structure could not be eliminated using this thin mask. See F. Romanato et al. 21 6 2912 2003 .

Further the mask resist combination must be exposed three separate times to create the Yablonovite structure. Where the holes in the structure overlap one another the X ray dose is a factor of 3 greater than where the holes are not overlapped. Also the X ray beams are attenuated through the thickness of the thick photoresist preferably by a factor of 5 to minimize beam time and not overexpose the top surface. Therefore the X ray flux in the exposed resist can vary by as much as a factor of 15. Gas can be generated in the overexposed areas due to resist degradation producing internal stress in the pattern that can damage the unexposed regions of the polymer resist. See J. Mohr et al. 24 231 1989 .

Finally X rays that reach the substrate and plating base can be absorbed at the resist substrate interface. The X rays can produce secondary emissions some of which radiate back into the photoresist and expose the bottom portion of the resist. See A. Ting 3 3 413 2004 . Therefore the bottom of the structure can be severely damaged and attachment of the photoresist to the substrate can be greatly weakened. This weakness can be a significant problem because the photoresist expands during the development. Therefore a contiguous structure such as the mold for Yablonovite tries to grow relative to the unexposed photoresist surrounding it. This growth creates large compressive stresses in the photoresist. These stresses are relieved when the structure detaches itself from the substrate.

As a result of these fabrication difficulties the Yablonovite structure has limited utility for practical applications. Further to date no one has been able to plate metal or other high index material into a template mold made of the developed photoresist.

In the late 1990 s researchers at Iowa State University developed a model design for producing a wider 3 D bandgap using a logpile or woodpile structure. This logpile structure is equivalent to a face centered cubic crystal when the fill fraction is near 28 . See K. Ho et al. 89 413 1994 and H. S. Sozuer and J. P. Dowling 41 231 1994 . The logpile structure can be fabricated using traditional lithographic patterning techniques to create 3 D photonic crystals for both visible and infrared applications. This logpile structure was first fabricated in silicon by Lin et al. using a surface micromachining method wherein the layers of logs are built up sequentially to provide a wide bandgap at wavelengths from 8 to 14 m. See S. Y. Lin et al. 59 579 1999 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 869 330 to Gee et al.

In is shown a perspective view schematic illustration of the logpile structure that can be fabricated on a substrate using the surface micromachining method of Lin et al. The 3 D logpile structure comprises alternating layers and each layer comprising an evenly spaced row of parallel logs or rods of a dielectric material e.g. silicon or tungsten . The rods have a width of w. The spaces between the rods can be filled with air as shown or a second dielectric material. For a four layer photonic crystal the one dimensional rods have a stacking sequence that repeats itself every four layers with a repeat distance of c. Within each layer or the axes of the rods are parallel to each other with a pitch of d. Alternate layers are rotated by 90 degrees relative to the previous layer. Between each alternating parallel layer and or and 29 the rods are shifted relative to each other by 0.5 d. The resulting structure has a face centered tetragonal lattice symmetry of which the diamond structure is a subset.

For the special case of c d 1.414 the crystal can be derived from a face centered cubic unit cell with a basis of two rods.

Logpile structures of both silicon and tungsten have been fabricated by Lin et al. For the tungsten photonic crystal the tungsten rods were approximately w 1.2 m wide and spaced at a pitch of d 4.2 m thereby providing a band edge at 5 m. Unfortunately fabrication of this logpile structure by surface micromachining is difficult. The vertical topology of the 3 D logpile structure is built up layer by layer by repetitive deposition and etching of multiple dielectric films requiring multiple aligned lithographic patterning steps. To simplify the fabrication of logpile photonic crystals Toader et al. developed a method to fabricate a tilted logpile structure that required only two lithographic exposures and only one repositioning of the mask between exposures. See O. Toader et al. 90 23 233901 2003 and O. Toader et al. 71 036605 2005 . In is shown a side view schematic illustration of Toader s tilted logpile structure patterned in a thick layer of photoresist on a substrate after the two exposures. The tilted logpile has the same lattice structure as Lin s conventional logpile but the tilted logpile is simply rotated with respect to the substrate by 90 degrees out of plane and 45 degrees in plane to orient the direction parallel to the substrate rather than normal to the substrate i.e. for the tilted logpile the direction is normal to the plane of the substrate and the direction is into the plane of .

In is shown a top view schematic illustration of a portion of Toader s mask comprising a pattern of openings and in an X ray absorbing material on a transparent membrane substrate this mask portion will pattern four layers in the direction an actual mask would comprise an array of mask openings to pattern a 3 D photonic crystal comprising a plurality of unit cells . Toader s method uses two exposures and a single mask repositioning between exposures to fabricate the tilted logpile structure exemplary exposures through a single representative mask opening or repositioned mask opening are shown in .

As shown in the mask is mounted in near proximity to the surface of the photoresist . A first exposure with the incident radiation tilted at a 45 degree angle with respect to the mask normal N and aligned with the mask openings patterns the first half of the logpile structure into the resist . The first exposure therefore patterns a layer of rods through mask openings and a layer of rods through mask openings parallel to the lattice direction. The mask is then repositioned on the photoresist by one half the distance to the pattern s nearest neighbor. The second exposure is then performed with incident beam also at a 45 degree tilt angle but after rotating the repositioned mask and substrate by 180 degrees to pattern the other half of the logpile structure into the resist . This rotation is equivalent to performing the second exposure with the incident beam at a 45 degree tilt angle with respect to the mask normal N without the mask substrate rotation. The second exposure therefore patterns layers of rods and parallel to the lattice direction through the repositioned mask openings and 28 respectively.

In is shown an end view schematic illustration of Toader s tilted logpile structure. The patterned rods and in adjacent layers are parallel to each other and non overlapping.

When using a positive photoresist with this mask pattern development of the patterned resist produces an inverse tilted logpile structure comprising layers of holes in the developed resist. Therefore Toader further suggested that the developed photoresist could be used as a template mold to fabricate a tilted logpile structure of metallized rods using a LIGA process. LIGA is the German acronym for a MEMS processes utilizing deep X ray Lithography Galvanoforming and Abformung injection molding to create plastic metal and ceramic microparts with very high aspect ratios and critical dimensions ranging from a few microns to a few centimeters. The first step of the LIGA process is to use DXRL to pattern thick photoresist. The exposure is commonly performed using a metallized substrate with resist either spin coated or laminated over the metallized surface. The patterned photoresist is then developed in a liquid solvent to remove the exposed low molecular weight polymeric materials i.e. with a positive resist leaving the unexposed material defined by X ray exposure. The second step in the LIGA process uses electroplating to deposit metal into the developed high aspect ratio pattern. Subsequent removal of the remaining photoresist results in a free standing metal structure. Using a similar LIGA process a tilted logpile structure can also be fabricated using metal plastic ceramic or glass to fill an inverse tilted logpile mold.

Toader s tilted logpile fabrication method is much simpler than the layer by layer logpile fabrication method of Lin et al. In addition the overall X ray dose required to fabricate the tilted logpile is reduced compared to that required to fabricate Yablonovite since only two exposures are necessary. Further because the exposed regions do not overlap the dose does not have the factor of 3 variation between the overlapped and non overlapped regions found in the Yablonovite fabrication method.

Unfortunately hardware requirements for submicron translation and alignment of a DXRL mask to a substrate between exposures have prevented the production of large area high quality tilted logpile photonic crystals using Toader s method. Therefore a need remains for a simple method to fabricate large area high quality tilted logpile photonic crystals.

The present invention is directed to a method to fabricate a tilted logpile photonic crystal comprising providing a substrate coated with a photoresist providing a lithographic mask comprising a pattern of mask openings to pattern a tilted logpile structure in the photoresist with an incident beam from a collimated X ray source mounting the mask spaced a distance from the surface of the photoresist tilting the mounted mask and substrate at a crystallographic symmetry angle e.g. 45 degrees toward the incident beam and aligning the incident beam with the mask openings rotating the mounted mask and substrate through a stitching angle about the mask normal exposing the photoresist to the incident beam through the mask openings to pattern a first half the tilted logpile structure in the photoresist rotating the mounted mask and substrate by 180 degrees about the mask normal and exposing the photoresist to the incident beam through the mask openings to pattern a second half of the tilted logpile structure in the photoresist thereby forming a tilted logpile structure patterned in the photoresist. The tilted logpile structure comprises a cubic or rhombic structure and preferably a face centered cubic structure. The stitching angle can be selected according to tan 8 0.5w s where w is the width of the mask opening and s is distance spaced and is preferably less than 10 degrees. The photoresist can comprise a negative or a positive photoresist.

The method can further comprising developing the patterned photoresist to provide an inverse logpile structure. A dielectric material can then be deposited into the holes of the inverse logpile structure to provide a tilted logpile structure comprising rods of the dielectric material embedded in photoresist. The remaining photoresist can be removed to provide a tilted logpile structure comprising rods of the dielectric material in air. The dielectric material can comprise plastic metal ceramic or glass. For example the metal can comprise tungsten gold silver nickel or copper. The metal can also comprise magnetic materials such as NiFe NiFeCo NiCr or NiCo alloy.

The present invention is directed toward a method to fabricate a tilted logpile photonic crystal that eliminates the need for mask repositioning altogether. The method described herein uses DXRL and LIGA processes to fabricate the tilted logpile photonic crystal. Instead of exposing one half of the structure and repositioning the mask prior to exposing the second half according to the method of Toader the method of the present invention does not require mask repositioning between exposures. According to the present method the mask and substrate are spaced a fixed and constant distance apart using a spacer. The stack including the mask spacer and resist coated substrate is then clamped together prior to lithographic exposure. The stack is then tilted at a crystallographic symmetry angle e.g. 45 degrees relative to the X ray beam and rotated about the surface normal until the mask is aligned with the X ray beam. The stack is then rotated in plane by a small stitching angle to generate a stitched resist pattern when exposed to the X ray beam. A first exposure is then taken to pattern the first half of the tilted logpile structure. The clamped mask substrate is then rotated by 180 about the normal and a second exposure patterns the remaining half of the tilted logpile structure. This produces unit cells that deviate from perfect cubes by roughly the same angle.

The method of the present invention can be performed with commercially available DXRL scanner technology and does not require fine alignment of the mask and substrate. However other lithographic methods using collimated or directed beams such as photo or electron beam lithography can also be used. Whereas the method described below is directed to fabrication of a face centered cubic structure the method can be used to pattern a wide variety of different crystallographic structures within the resist including cubic rhombic and diamond like structures by varying the exposure and stitching angles to generate the desired pattern.

In is shown a side view schematic illustration of the tilted logpile structure of the present invention patterned in a thick photoresist on a substrate . The tilted logpile has nearly the same lattice structure as Toader s tilted logpile . However as shown in end view schematic illustration the alternating tilted logpile layers and are skewed from parallel by a small stitching angle that enables the photoresist to be patterned with only two exposures and no mask repositioning between the exposures.

In is shown a top view schematic illustration of a portion of a mask comprising a pattern of mask openings and in an X ray absorbing material on a transparent membrane substrate. The method uses two exposures but no mask repositioning between exposures to fabricate the tilted logpile structure exemplary exposures through a single representative mask opening are shown in .

As shown in the mask is spaced at a distance s from the surface of the photoresist by spacers . The mask is clamped to spacer photoresist substrate. As with Toader s method the incident radiation is tilted at a crystallographic symmetry angle with respect to the mask normal N and rotated about the normal to align the direction of the incident radiation with the axis X of the mask openings. For a face centered cubic crystal the crystallographic symmetry angle can be 45 degrees e.g. in the crystal direction . However unlike Toader the clamped mask substrate is then rotated about the mask normal N by a small stitching angle prior to the first exposure. The first exposure to the incident radiation therefore patterns layers of rods and parallel to the lattice direction through mask openings and respectively. However since the mask is spaced from the photoresist by spacer the incident radiation will enter the surface of the resist at locations and at the spaced distance s from the mask openings and respectively rather than directly under the mask openings as would be the entry locations with the proximate mask of Toader. A second exposure is then performed also at a 45 degree tilt angle but after rotating the clamped mask and substrate about the mask normal N by 180 degrees to pattern the other half of the logpile structure into the resist . This is equivalent to performing the second exposure with the incident beam at a 45 degree tilt angle with respect to the mask normal N. The second exposure to the incident radiation therefore patterns layers of rods and parallel to the lattice direction through the mask openings and respectively. Again because the mask is spaced from the photoresist the incident beam will enter the surface of the resist at locations and at the spaced distance from the mask openings and respectively rather than directly under the mask openings.

With Toader s method if the proximate mask is rotated 180 degrees but not repositioned after the first exposure the second layer of rods would not be offset by a rod s width and would be patterned directly on top of the first layer. To prevent this overlaying with the method of the present invention the mask is spaced from the photoresist and the clamped mask substrate is rotated around the mask normal N by the small stitching angle prior to the first exposure. Accordingly the second layer is offset by one rod s width from the first layer. As shown in the stitching angle can be selected so that the incident radiation from the second exposure enters the photoresist at locations and offset approximately one rod width w from the entry locations and respectively of the incident radiation from the first exposure. The stitching angle can be selected from simple geometry according to tan 8 0.5 for small angles.

After the photoresist is patterned it can be developed and released from the substrate. If a negative photoresist is used the exposed regions are rendered insoluble and the unexposed regions of the resist will be removed by the developer resulting in a tilted logpile structure comprising cross hatched rods of the negative photoresist material. Examples of negative photoresists include epoxy based materials such as SU 8. Photoresist is a rather low index dielectric material. Therefore such a plastic photonic crystal might be used for filtering low frequency light or as a complex 3 D waveguide.

Conversely if a positive photoresist is patterned the exposed regions of the resist will be removed by the developer resulting in an inverse tilted logpile structure comprising cross hatched holes in the photoresist. An example of a positive photoresist material is PMMA. The inverse tilted logpile structure can be used as a template to mold a tilted logpile structure. For example a LIGA process as described above can be used to fill the template mold with a plastic metal ceramic glass or other high index dielectric material. Filling the holes with the dielectric material results in a tilted logpile structure comprising rods of the high index dielectric material embedded in the photoresist matrix. Alternatively the remaining photoresist material can be removed resulting in a tilted logpile structure comprising rods of the high index dielectric material with air as the second dielectric. For example metals can be electroplated up from a conducting substrate electroplated through the template holes or deposited into the template holes by atomic layer deposition or other deposition techniques. For optical photonic crystals the metal is preferably highly reflective in the wavelength range specified by the lattice constant. Common metals such as gold silver or copper can be used to fabricate photonic crystals in the visible. Tungsten gold or nickel for example are adequately reflective in the mid infrared and can be used to fabricate photonic crystals in this spectral region. The photonic crystal can also comprise magnetic materials such as NiFe NiFeCo NiCr and NiCo alloys for other applications.

Alternatively a negative of the mask pattern shown in can be used i.e. the mask openings and can be replaced by X ray absorbing material on a membrane substrate that is transparent to X rays . If a positive photoresist is patterned with this negative mask development of the patterned positive resist will produce a tilted logpile structure comprising cross hatched rods of the positive photoresist material.

As shown in adjacent layers of the resulting tilted logpile are not quite parallel but rather are skewed by twice the stitching angle. This skewness produces unit cells that deviate slightly from perfect cubes and are better described as rhomboids for larger stitching angles. Further the surface photonic crystal structure that produces a photonic bandgap may only be a few unit cells deep into the structure before the adjacent layers separate or overlap too much to produce a photonic bandgap. Therefore it is preferable to select as small a stitching angle and as large a spacer thickness as possible to minimize the skewness. However angular tolerances and X ray beam divergence can become problematic at large mask photoresist spacings. Therefore the stitching angle is preferably between about 0.1 and 10 degrees.

Consider the arrangement shown in wherein s 2d c 4w for the face centered cubic unit cell. For this example the stitching angle is 7 degrees. With this large stitching angle adjacent layers will overlap completely or be separated by a full log width about one or two unit cells into the structure as shown in . Therefore smaller stitching angles may be preferred to achieve a complete bandgap deep into the structure.

Now consider a cubic photonic lattice comprising rods that are one micron wide with a unit cell size of four microns. This logpile structure has a photonic bandgap in the infrared. Assume a spacer that is 50 microns thick. Therefore the stitching angle is 0.57 degrees. For this infrared tilted logpile the layers of rods will substantially overlap or separate at a depth of about 20 microns i.e. about 3 unit cells into the structure.

In addition to achieve wide electromagnetic bandgaps photonic crystals require a network topology wherein the rods are connected electrically in a continuous network throughout the structure. Therefore with the normal logpile structures or each of the layers of rods touch the adjacent layers to allow current flow but do not overlap into the adjacent layers. However with the tilted logpile of the present invention adjacent layers separate or overlap by the stitching angle into the structure away from the surface. Therefore with the present invention the rods are preferably 10 to 20 wider than the normal rods to ensure electrical contact between layers as they separate into the depth of the structure. Experiment and modeling both indicate that oversizing the rods by this amount has a negligible effect on the photonic crystal s optical performance.

In general selecting an optimum stitching angle spacer thickness and dielectric material depends on the desired optical performance of the photonic crystal. If wide bandgaps are needed then the photonic crystal can be fabricated with a metal such as tungsten silver or gold all of which provide a large index contrast. As described above the layers of the tilted logpile are not quite parallel but rather are skewed by twice the stitching angle. With a high index contrast material the photonic crystal structure need only be a few unit cells thick to provide a complete bandgap. For example Lin et al. found that a tungsten photonic crystal having a conventional face centered cubic logpile structure with a pitch between adjacent rods of d 4.2 microns rod width of w 1.2 microns and layer thickness of 1.6 microns i.e. c 6.4 microns provides a complete bandgap with very low transmittance in the infrared in only 6 layers i.e. 1 unit cells . See U.S. Pat. No. 6 611 085 to Fleming et al. Therefore a surface structure only a few unit cells thick can generally provide a complete bandgap suitable for most applications and is easily fabricated by the method of the present invention.

The optical performance of the photonic crystal can also be modified by varying the lattice parameters and rod cross sectional shape or dimension. The wavelength of the photonic bandgap can be modified by changing the lattice constant. The transmission and reflectivity can be modified by changing the geometry of the mask openings used in the mask pattern. The angle of incidence of the exposures can also be changed to create variations on the logpile structure. For example changing the angle of incident with a mask having square mask openings creates a lattice of parallelograms instead of squares. Modifying the shape of the parallelogram and the resulting rhombic rods changes the photonic bandgap structure.

A tilted logpile photonic crystal was fabricated according to the method of the present invention described above. Substrates were exposed by DXRL using the 1.3 GeV synchrotron light source at the Center for Advanced Microstructures and Devices at Louisiana State University. The X ray beam was filtered using an 89 incidence mirror to provide a soft X ray spectrum of 0.5 to 2 KeV photons. See C. Cuisin et al. 34 13 2002 . The DXRL mask was fabricated by electroplating 0.75 m thickness of gold onto a 1 m thick silicon nitride membrane.

A 20 m thick layer of PMMA photoresist was spin coated onto a gold coated glass substrate. A 0.01 m thick titanium film was previously deposited onto the substrate to promote adhesion of the PMMA to the substrate. The mask was spaced from the photoresist by a 50 m spacer. The mask spacer photoresist substrate was then clamped together. An inverse tilted logpile structure was patterned using two exposures. The mask and substrate remained clamped together for both exposures. The first exposure was performed with the mask and substrate oriented at a 45 tilt angle to the X ray beam and rotated by a stitching angle of 8 degrees with respect to the incident beam. The second exposure was performed after rotating the mask and substrate with respect to the incidence angle by an additional 180 degrees. This effectively changed the angle of incidence for the exposure from 45 to 45 thereby patterning layers perpendicular to those exposed in the first exposure. The resulting pattern was a series of exposed cross hatched layers entering the PMMA at a 45 degree angle. The 8 degree stitching angle provided enough offset so that the layers were shifted by one half a lattice period with respect to each other at the surface of the PMMA. Therefore the mask did not require repositioning between the two exposures. After the exposures the PMMA was developed in GG developer using gravity assisted mixing. GG developer consisted of 60 2 2 butoxyethody ethanol 20 tetrahydro 1.4 oxazine 15 water and 5 2 aminoethanol. The developed resist was rinsed in GG rinse 20 water in 2 2 butoxyethody ethanol and water. The titanium film was then removed to release the developed PMMA layer from the substrate. PMMA is a positive resist. Therefore GG developer dissolved the exposed portions of the PMMA resist to provide an inverse tilted logpile structure comprising cross hatched holes in the PMMA.

In is shown a scanning electron micrograph SEM of the developed PMMA showing the inverse tilted logpile structure. The developed inverse logpile pattern within the PMMA can be seen as layers of cross hatched holes moving from left to right and right to left in the middle of the SEM.

A LIGA process as described above was then used to fabricate a tilted logpile structure from the PMMA template mold using electroplated gold. After a titanium release etch the developed PMMA was placed directly into a gold electroplating bath without drying. Gold was deposited into the developed pattern at a rate of 0.2 m min until the desired thickness was obtained. The resist was then stripped to provide a gold logpile with an air dielectric tilted with the direction normal to the plane of the substrate.

In are shown SEMs of the gold electroplated tilted logpile after the resist strip. The electroplated gold structures were plated 13 m tall to produce just over 2 unit cells of photonic crystal in the direction. The thinnest rods plated were 0.8 m wide and about 2.2 m thick with an aspect ratio of about 15 1. The areal size of the structure was 5 mm 5 mm. In is shown a side view SEM of the gold tilted logpile having a 250 m field of view oriented along the direction. In is shown a side view SEM of the logpile with a 50 m field of view. In is shown a top view SEM of the logpile with a 20 m field of view oriented along the direction. The SEM shows gaps between rows of connected column structures in the fabricated tilted logpile. In is shown a 45 view SEM of a lattice defect oriented along the direction.

Three dimensional tilted logpile photonic crystals were modeled using a method of moments code. The code calculates the far field efficiencies for reflected and transmitted modes from an infinite photonic crystal at an arbitrary incidence angle. Calculations were performed assuming linearly polarized transverse electric TE and transverse magnetic TM plane waves having wavelengths of 5 to 15 m at different angles between the and directions of the crystal. Calculations assumed the physical geometries shown in . The logpile logs were assumed to be 2.2 m wide and 1 m thick gold rods. The fill dielectric material and substrate were air in the simulation. The lattice constant for the unit cell was 4 m.

In is shown a graph of the calculated total reflection of the structure between 5 and 15 microns along the axis i.e. normal to the substrate . The calculations indicate a band edge at 5 m. The band edge is observed as a sharp increase in reflectivity due to Bragg coupling of the incident light with the photonic crystal structure. This Bragg coupling produces a bandgap in which the light cannot propagate into the photonic crystal and is therefore reflected off the surface.

Gold tilted logpile photonic crystals fabricated as described above were characterized with a hemispherical directional reflectometer HDR to determine the total diffuse and specular reflectivity of the photonic crystals. The HDR uses a reciprocal process to measure the total light reflected by a material from a source at a given incident angle. See J. T. Neu et al. 2260 62 1994 .

In are shown graphs of the total reflected light from two different gold tilted logpile photonic crystals fabricated as described above. The band structure of these tilted logpiles is very similar to the numerical simulations shown for the Toader type tilted logpile structures in . One of the photonic crystals measured had rod cross sections of 2.2 1 m. These crystals were fully dense with no gaps between sets of cross rods when looking directly down on the lattice from the direction i.e. normal to the substrate . The other structure comprising 0.8 m wide gold rods had small spaces between layers of the photonic crystal resulting in a loss of electrical contact. As the rod width decreases a transmission window opens in the photonic band gap due to the separation of the skewed layers in the tilted logpile structure. The shape and location of this reflectivity dip is roughly centered between 8 and 12 micron wavelengths.

The measurements were taken assuming that the samples themselves were totally opaque at the wavelengths of interest and showed no infrared transmission because the photonic structure is plated in gold on a thin opaque gold film. Therefore approximate emission curves can be generated by subtracting the total reflectivity of the sample from unity according to E 1 R T where reflectivity R is the measured total reflectivity and transmission T is zero. Therefore the emission peak typically present at wavelengths just below the bandgap is observed as a relatively sharp dip in the total reflection at wavelengths below 5 m. See H. Yasumoto CRC Press 2006 .

Blocking the specular reflection in the HDR allows for the measurement of diffuse reflection of a sample. The specular reflection can then be calculated by subtracting the diffuse from the total i.e. Specular Total Diffuse . In are shown graphs of the total and specular reflection for a fully dense gold tilted logpile photonic crystal having rod cross sections of 2.2 1 mat angles of the incident light of 7 and 60 off normal to the substrate along the x y plane i.e. lattice direction to . For these measurements the incident light was shown parallel to the 5.6 m or long axis of the tilted logpile structure. Data from light in the perpendicular direction at different angles along the y z axis also demonstrated photonic lattice behavior along a different axis of the 3 D Bravais lattice. These results indicate the presence of a true omnidirectional 3 D photonic bandgap in the tilted logpile photonic crystal.

The present invention has been described as a method to fabricate a tilted logpile photonic crystal. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

