---

title: Promotional games architecture
abstract: The claimed subject matter relates to an architecture that can facilitate promotion of an online service. The architecture can provide for a games platform that can host a variety of games. The hosted games can be designed such that a user's experiences can be enhanced by game cards that can be discovered and retrieved while using the online service being promoted. Accordingly, the user's experiences can be enhanced as a function of the usage of the online service being promoted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07798908&OS=07798908&RS=07798908
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07798908
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070221
---
In the offline world it is common for business to offer promotions in order to increase market share or to ultimately increase sales. Many promotions are costly for the promoter and are essentially limited to subsidies to confirmed customers e.g. in return for a purchase a discount can be provided . Conventional promotions typically use nothing more than the underlying product and a discount to leverage the promotion.

Many promotions have adopted the notion of rewards points that can be collected and subsequently redeemed for other goods or services. However such promotions due to the miniscule value of the rewards points in relation to what must be purchased in order to redeem the points for something of value generally are not effective in soliciting new customers but rather are mostly employed by existing prolific customers who save the points but would probably have purchased the underlying product in any event.

Other conventional promotions have adopted the notion of game pieces which can be collected and traded to arguably increase the chances of winning a prize. However to win a jackpot all but one or a small number of the total game pieces necessary to win are common whereas the remaining one or few game pieces are rare. Thus the promotion is effectively reduced to a sweepstakes since the acquisition of the rare game piece which would not be traded by a rational collector is effectively the equivalent to winning.

The following presents a simplified summary of the claimed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the claimed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the claimed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the claimed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the claimed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

The subject matter disclosed and claimed herein in one aspect thereof comprises computer implemented techniques for employing a gaming platform for facilitating promotion of online services. For example conventional promotion mechanisms are essentially limited to leveraging only the products or services of the underlying business or in some cases providing other products or services based upon prolific transactions of existing customers. In contrast the claimed subject matter can facilitate promotions that are leveraged by the popularity educational and or entertainment value of games even when the games are not associated with the business to be promoted.

Accordingly the promotions of the gaming platform can be self promoted in the process of promoting an online service as well as leverage already popular online services. The gaming platform can be designed such that it is substantially resistant to fraud and capitalize on numerous viral marketing opportunities and or sponsorships. Moreover the games provided by the gaming platform can be educational and or informative as well as other entertainment characteristics such that experiences can be truly enjoyed by a wider audience than merely the set of winners.

In accordance with one aspect of the claimed subject matter a gaming platform can provide access to a set of games. The games can be designed such that a game play experience can be enhanced by acquisition of game cards. In accordance therewith the gaming network can promote an online service by allowing the online service to issue the game cards. Accordingly a user s gaming experience can be a function of usage of the online service to be promoted which can create a natural promoting mechanism for the online service.

It is to be appreciated that the service to be promoted need not have any affiliation with or control of the game in which the game cards are used. In fact the game card supplied by the online service can be generic and or featureless and only be given attributes once the user associates the game card with a particular game. Moreover the online service can intermingle the game card with content desired to attract eyeballs but generally results in banner blindness e.g. the user does not notice ads placed in an ad banner due to the banner blindness phenomenon . Additionally various mechanisms exist to mitigate fraudulent behavior such as botting software employed to collect the game cards without a legitimate desire to use the services of the promoted online service. In accordance therewith both fraud and banner blindness can be mitigated.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the claimed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the claimed subject matter may be employed and the claimed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinguishing features of the claimed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the claimed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface game card or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Referring now to the drawing with reference initially to a computer implemented system that can host games wherein a gaming experience is a function of usage of a service is depicted. Generally the system can include a games platform that can provide access to a set of games . Each of the set of games can be referred to herein either collectively or individually as game s although each of the games can have individual characteristics that distinguish the game from other games . The games can be educational entertaining or a combination of the two such as a trivia game . Moreover the games can be solo games or multiplayer games . Multiplayer games can be competitive or cooperative and can be played with friends and or with anonymous third parties.

Games can attract users e.g. user in a variety of ways. As one example winners of a game can be provided with rewards detailed further infra public recognition e.g. top player scores list but it should be appreciated that many of the games associated with the games platform can have underlying entertainment or educational value that is its own incentive. The games are typically designed such that game play relates in some fashion to a game card e.g. game card . For example the game can be of a board game variety wherein the game cards are placed on the board to facilitate game play. An example of such can be found in connection with below. In accordance with another aspect the game can relate to trivia and the game cards can each include one or more trivia questions. As another example the game can require a game card as a price of admission and or a credit in order to gain access to the game and or to gain access to particular levels.

It is of course impossible to describe every type of game as well as how a given game can employ the game card but it can be readily understood that many other games are contemplated to be within the scope and spirit of the claimed subject matter. As well it should be appreciated that the games can be designed and or implemented by professional game developers as well as by amateurs such as users of the game platform . For example Application Programming Interfaces APIs for the games as well as global gaming rules associate with game cards can be published such that users can design their own games and or create their own skins scenarios mods etc. for an existing game .

In addition to providing access to a set of games the games platform can also promote an online service . The promoted online service can be disparate from the game platform and or largely or entirely unrelated to the games . For example while the game platform can provide a portal to a variety of games the promoted online service can be e.g. a search engine or other search mechanism a communication service such as email chat or the like a subscription service or other online content service a weather stock or other informational service or substantially any service that can benefit by being promoted e.g. by materially increasing usage and or the quality of the usage of the service.

In addition to the games platform the system can also include a game card which as discussed supra can facilitate an enhanced experience for a game . Generally the game card is issued by the promoted online service whereupon the game card can be made available to a patron of promoted online service . The patron using the promoted online service can collect the game card e.g. by clicking on a token from the promoted online service . The game card can then be delivered to the games platform and e.g. deposited in a game space associated with an account of a user . As such a natural and symbiotic relationship can exist and or be cultivated between the games platform the promoted online service and the user patron as illustrated in .

Before continuing the discussion relating to turning briefly to a block diagram of exemplary relations between various actors is illustrated. In general relationship can exist between the games platform and the promoted online service . Games platform can promote the promoted online service by driving traffic to the promoted online service . Whereas the promoted online services issues and provides game cards to the games platform . Relationship can exist between the games platform and the user . The user can obtain entertainment and or educational value from the games of the games platform and in return represent a user base that the games platform can leverage e.g. by trafficking the promoted online service . Relationship can exist between the promoted online service and the patron . The patron can patronize the promoted online service e.g. use or browse web documents and in return gain the opportunity to obtain game cards .

It is to be appreciated that the user and the patron can in some instances be used interchangeably while in other instances there may exist subtle distinctions based upon context even though both the patron and the user can be the same entity. For example reference numeral can refer to a patron when that patron is using the promoted online service but to user in the context of the games platform . One rationale for this is the notion that the user can login to the games platform e.g. in order to access that user s game space with a secure authenticated and or universal e.g. passport type login user identity that can be the same user identity employed for other online services potentially including the promoted online service .

In that case whenever the patron is using the promoted online service he or she can be transparently logged into the games platform such that upon discovery of a game card the patron need not interrupt the usage of the promoted online service in order to manually login to the games platform to deposit the game card in the user account. Rather the patron can click on the game card and have it automatically deposited in the game space associated with an account of the user . Moreover by employing a universal login as described the game cards need never be transmitted over a medium that may risk a failure of the games platform to monitor and or enforce rules associated with the game cards . It is to be appreciated that additionally or alternatively a user account e.g. a game space can be associated with a cookie included on the user s machine for depositing game cards . It is also to be appreciated that although by no means necessary the game card may not appear on the promoted online service unless the patron is logged on to the games platform and or his or her game space .

Furthermore the relationships described herein can also serve to document the effectiveness of the promotion to the promoted online service . For example many clicks on game cards from patrons of the promoted online service can serve to illustrate a high success rate of the promotion and or the popularity of the games platform .

Referring back to it is to be appreciated that a virtually unlimited number of users can interact with the games platform . Each user can have an associated game space . The game space can house all game cards of a user as well as being customizable configurable in many ways. For example game spaces can be required to conform to global rules set by the games platform . In addition the user can customize his or her own game space in a variety of ways e.g. selecting from and or uploading various media including the ability to select a list of favorite or active games from the set of games which is further detailed in connection with . Furthermore the user can customize the game space by setting permissions with respect to how and with whom the game cards can be exchanged as detailed more thoroughly in conjunction with .

When game cards are transmitted to the games platform they are typically deposited into the game space associated with the user patron as described supra. However in accordance with an aspect of the claimed subject matter other acts can be facilitated which can be determined based upon a type of game card that the promoted online service issues which can be explained in more detail with reference to .

While still referring to but turning now as well to example types of game card as well as example online documents that include a mechanism for deploying the game cards are depicted. The game card can be associated with a globally unique ID GUID in order to mitigate duplication and can be cryptographically secured by means known in the art. The game card can exist in a variety of states some of which are illustrated in . For example the game card can be a pseudo game card a generic game card or a registered game card .

Briefly the pseudo game card generally is not a game card that can be directly employed in game play with games . Rather the pseudo game card can be issued by the promoted online service to aid in fraud detection. The generic game card can be as the name implies a game card that is generic. It can be thought of as a wild card of sorts because it need not be endowed with any particular characteristics other than that it is a game card . When a promoted online service issues a game card it is usually of the generic game card type. A third type of game card can be the registered game card . A registered game card can be a game card that has been linked and or associated with a particular game . For example when a generic game card is deposited into the game space of user the user can subsequently choose which game with which to associate the generic game card .

Recall that the games can be designed such that game cards can enhance a gaming experience. An object in one game may be to collect all the various poses of one of several types of cartoon characters while an object in another game is to challenge an opponent with combatants described by playing cards while an object of a third game can be to finish various quest levels. The possibilities for how a game card can be employed with the games are unlimited however a game card e.g. generic game card can be registered to one of the games and upon registration the generic game card can be endowed with attributes in accordance with the rules of the game with which it is associated. Thus attributes of a generic card can be revealed to the user as the generic game card is registered with a particular game and converted to a registered game card . Accordingly in the first instance above the registered game card can gain attributes of one of the poses for one of the cartoon characters while in the second instance the registered game card can be endowed with features of one of the combatants and in the third instance the registered game card can provide the codes to the next level. Of course the cases provided herein are merely exemplary and are not intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Generally the promoted online service only issues pseudo game cards or generic game cards but in accordance with an aspect of the claimed subject matter the promoted online service can issue game cards that are already registered to a particular game e.g. in association with game that is sponsored by a third party. However in this case it should be appreciated that the actual attributes of the registered game card may not be known or actually assigned until the patron visits his or her game space to view the registered game card deposited therein. In fact depending upon the rules a game enforces the attributes assigned to a newly registered game card may depend upon features unique to the user such as what other game cards the user has associated with that particular game e.g. a game card that grants access to the next level of a game may be based upon what level the user is currently engaged .

Moreover it should be understood that the game cards in whatever state they exist may be perishable expendable or persist indefinitely. For example generic game cards may be required to be registered to a particular game within a certain period of time or they can expire. As another example registered game cards can be expended such as for games that require a game card in order to gain admittance to the game or in the case where the game destroys registered game cards e.g. the loser of the game loses one or several of his cards . However these and other rules are merely exemplary and can be defined and or optionally enforced by the games platform and or the rules associated with a particular game .

In accordance therewith a user has an incentive to patronize the promoted online service . For example by patronizing the promoted online service the user can be exposed to the potential for receiving game cards that can enhance the user s experiences with the games . With reference to various mechanisms for indicating that a game card is available to a patron of the promoted online service are illustrated.

As previously mentioned the promoted online service can be substantially any online service such as chat email news sports weather maps dating career building shopping travel etc. Generally any such promoted online service will communicate information with a patron by way of some user interface which is typically by way of a web browser but can also be in the form of an application that creates a pop up or runs in a task bar or side bar such as a news stock or weather bug. Irrespective of the actual implementation be it a browser search page a stock ticker weather bug or something else entirely the promoted online service can include within the web document a token.

The token can be a link with associated anchor text image for depositing the game card . If the patron clicks on the token a game card can be deposited into his or her game space as substantially described herein. While the token can be represented to a patron as simply text that indicates You ve won a game card or something similar in order to mitigate fraudulent activity the token can be an image as well as depicted by token . For example one type of fraudulent activity is to employ a bot to parse web documents and automatically follow links or some other activity that can be beneficial to a hacker but detrimental to a service provider for a number of reasons.

It is readily apparent that neither the promoted online service nor the games platform would likely want to allow botting software to search for and retrieve game cards . While tests are widely available to detect and or defeat botting software e.g. Completely Automated Public Turing Test to Tell Computers and Humans Apart CAPTCHA Turking mechanisms Human Interactive Proofs HIPs it may not be feasible to employ one of these tests each time a game card is retrieved e.g. doing so could frustrate and or annoy patrons . However most such tests rely upon images which humans are quite good at distinguishing while computers are not.

As such since the token can be an image a HIP can be implemented inherently. For example the image can vary to signify a distinction between a generic card and a pseudo card . The patron will know or could be readily instructed not to click on tokens with images indicating a pseudo card because these images typically do not result in a game card being deposited. Thus the promoted online service can issue pseudo cards rather than generic cards in some predetermined ratio e.g. 10 25 50 . . . . If a similar ratio of pseudo cards is deposited into a user s game space it can be inferred that fraudulent activity has occurred or that the user is not yet aware to distinguish between pseudo cards and generic cards . In any event suitable action can be taken by the games platform to curb and or mitigate fraud. For example if a certain number of pseudo cards are received in a given period e.g. a day then no further game cards even valid generic cards will be accepted for the remained of the period. In another example game spaces that receive an inordinately high number of game cards or other suspicious activity can be flagged for further investigation. In addition to what has been described above and herein a game space flagged as suspicious can be subject to other suitable remedies.

While the token can be an image the token can also be text and in some cases associated with the image as depicted in . For example due to aesthetics or some other reason such as in the case where the promoted online service does not allow images within its content the token may not itself be an image . In those cases the aforementioned mechanisms for fraud prevention can still be employed in precisely the same manner. For example even promoted online services that do not allow images in the results often still contain images e.g. in the header banner etc. . Such images can be employed to distinguished between pseudo cards and generic cards even though the images are not part of the token that can be clicked to deposit a game card . It is also to be appreciated that the token can be implemented in connection with an audio file rather than an image that can have the similar properties of defeating bots but can also be more effectively employed by patrons who are visually impaired.

With reference now to a computer implemented system that can facilitate registration of game cards to active games is illustrated. Generally the system can include the games platform and one or more game cards in any of the suitable varieties e.g. pseudo generic registered as substantially described in connection with . The patron can patronize the promoted online service upon which the patron can be periodically and or temporally presented a token amidst the usual content the promoted online service generally delivers. The token can signify that a game card is available. If the patron retrieves this game card e.g. by clicking on the token then depending upon the type of game card issued either a pseudo game card or a generic game card can be transmitted to the games platform whereupon a generic game card can be deposited into the game space . Typically as depicted only generic game cards are deposited into the game space however in the case where the promoted online service issues a registered game card the registered game card can also be deposited not shown into the game space . Moreover while pseudo game cards largely exist in order to detect fraud and generally do not result in a registered game card they might also be deposited into the game space such as to increment a counter that indicates the number of pseudo game cards that the patron has retrieved and or as a reminder to avoid retrieving these types of game cards .

When the user navigates to his or her game space the user can be presented with the collected generic etc. cards . As yet these generic cards are typically featureless. However these generic cards can be bound to a particular game e.g. registered upon which the generic card takes on appropriate attributes suitable to the game with which it is registered and these attributes can then be revealed to the user . It is to be appreciated that the user of the games platform can choose to play any of the games from the set of games from . However according to an aspect the games platform can limit the number of games the user has active at a given time. For example the games platform may limit the number of active games to say five. In that case the user while usually free to select which games are active for her she is limited to only five. Such a regulation is not strictly necessary but can be enforced by the games platform in order to prevent dilution of game card use and or game experience with respect to content.

In accordance therewith the games platform can restrict conversion of a generic game card only to an active game . Thus if the user has active games but wants to register the generic card with a different sixth game it may be necessary to deactivate one of the five active games first. Typically all registered game cards that were registered to the subsequently deactivated game are destroyed. As such the games platform provides a persistent need for more games cards which can continually drive the promotions. However again this rule need not be employed in all cases. For example the games platform can return a fraction or even all of the registered game cards upon deactivation of a game. In those cases the returned game cards can be deposited into the game space as generic cards or in another suitable manner.

By way of an additional non limiting illustration consider the following scenario. Bob enjoys managing his stock portfolio and as such keeps a stock ticker on his desktop to alert him of news and quotes relating to his portfolio. Bob s favorite niece Ashley and nephew Ross are avid game players and each has their own game space on the games platform. They notice that one of the promoted online services is for a stock service and convince uncle Bob to try this new online service. Bob agrees and registers with the promoted online service and subsequently uses the new stock ticker in lieu of the previous one and also quickly configures his own game space to automatically deposit received game cards into Ashley s and Ross s game space in equal amounts.

Periodically when Bob is checking the stock ticker he notices a token indicating a game card is available. Bob avoids clicking on the tokens that relate to pseudo game cards but contentiously clicks on the tokens relating to generic game cards much to the delight of his niece and nephew. Eventually Bob discovers that he really enjoys a particular word game offered by the game platform so he reconfigures his game space to keep one third of the game cards received for him and automatically transmit the other two thirds in equal amounts to Ashley and Ross. Bob then discovers a learning game certified by the games platform that requires one game card to play and can be configured to allow users other than the one providing the game card to play.

Bob allocates a portion of his game cards directly to this learning game whereby his game cards provide Ashley and Ross access to the game where each is presented suitable math problems. If a requisite number of problems are correctly answered a number of game cards can be generated and deposited into Ashley s and Ross s respective accounts automatically which they can subsequently register with games of their own choosing. In some case other rewards can be provided such as a coupon for a free ice cream from a local business etc.

According to an aspect a certificate of excellence can be deposited in Ashley s or Ross s game space with her name and achievement to indicate superlative success on the questions. In accordance with another aspect this certificate can serve as the coupon for a local sponsoring business e.g. the ice cream parlor . The local business may sponsor such to promote goodwill and or because it is likely that Bob will buy products as well when he takes his niece and nephew to the ice cream parlor. To mitigate fraud the coupon can be valid only for Ashley and the local business can at least verify the age and gender of the party redeeming the coupon.

Referring now to a computer implemented system that can facilitate trading of game cards is depicted. Generally the system can include the games platform and a game card which can be either a generic game card or a registered game card. The system can also include a first game space and a second game space between which the transaction associated with the game card is to occur. It is readily apparent that the games platform can facilitate the trade from one game space to another game space . Normally a game card in any state e.g. generic registered can be traded but in some cases the games platform can limit the ability to trade when the game card is in one state or the other. For example trading generic cards provides for a more flexible medium of exchange since these can be converted to any game provided to the game space limited in some cases to only the active games of the receiving user . But since registered cards are assigned attributes by a particular game it may no longer be of use to any but that particular game or affiliated games. However trading these types of cards can foster esoteric and interesting niches relevant to the particular game s content. Accordingly the games platform can open or restrict card trading in a manner suitable to achieving these or other goals.

In accordance with an aspect of the claimed subject matter once the game card is deposited into a game space it can be traded by a means other than the games platform such as by a disparate online service . In many cases the game card can only be traded by way of very particular disparate online services e.g. disparate online services that are trusted by the games platform disparate online services that share a universal login identity with the games platform only a promoted online service and or disparate online services wherein the games platform can monitor transactions relating to the game card and or enforce games platform rules etc.

While the games platform itself can provide a convenient mechanism for trading game cards a suitable disparate online service e.g. an online messaging service may provide advantages as well. For example if the disparate online service is also a promoted service then utilizing the promoted service to trade game cards can generate opportunities to get additional game cards . As another example a third party may be sponsoring a particular game and want to restrict trading of game cards registered with the sponsored game only to a particular disparate online service . As a further example a user of the games platform may want to entice a friend to join the games platform . As such the friend may not have an account or an associated game space . Therefore the user can send the game card by way of disparate online service .

It is to be appreciated that the games platform can support many configurable options relating to game card trading. For example a user can configure his or her game space to make all registered game cards visible to other users only visible to those on a buddy list or some other combination. Moreover individual game cards can be configured with privileges such that they can be traded automatically with anyone require assent first etc. For example if a user is playing a game that facilitates collection of all poses for a certain cartoon character while the user s friend is playing the same game but with a different cartoon character being collected then trades may be readily configured and readily made between the two users.

With reference now to a computer implemented method for promoting online services is provided. Generally at reference numeral a game card can be awarded to a patron of an online service being promoted. For example a gaming network can exist in which users of the gaming network are encouraged to patronize the online service being promoted. One such incentive can be the opportunity to receive a game card that can be employed with a game provided by the gaming network.

At reference numeral the patron of the online service can be identified as a user of the gaming network that is promoting the online service. One manner of accomplishing this is by way of a universal login ID that operates as an identity for both patrons of the online service and users of the gaming network. It is to be appreciated that other means exist such as by way of a cookie installed on the patron s machine. At reference numeral the game card awarded can be utilized for enhancing an experience associated with a game provided by the gaming network. For example the game card can be employed as a game piece for a board game ticket for admission to a game or any of unlimited other purposes based upon rules defined by the game.

At reference numeral an image or another form of media such as audio can be associated with the token. The contents and or design of the image can be employed for indicating a type of the game card that is available. For example the image can differ according to whether the game card available is a pseudo card a generic card or in some cases another type of game card e.g. a registered card or another type altogether . It is to be appreciated that the online service and or the gaming network need not implement pseudo cards however doing so can facilitate fraud prevention.

At reference numeral the game card can be transmitted to the gaming network. Generally the game card is transmitted when the patron clicks on the token however other means of illustrating an acceptance of the game card are envisioned and to be included within the scope of the appended claims. For example the patron can retrieve the game card by way of oral instructions etc.

Turning now to a computer implemented method for facilitating game card transitions is depicted. At reference numeral at least one of a pseudo game card a generic game card or a registered game card can be transmitted to the gaming network. Typically the online service both issues and transmits the game card as substantially described in connection with acts and from .

At reference numeral a generic game card can be converted to a registered game card. For example the user can link the generic card to a particular game in order to convert it to a registered card. Since generic cards typically do not have any defined features the game in which the registered card is associated can define what attributes the card is to adopt in essence revealing the nature of the card to the user. It is to be appreciated that if the game card transmitted in accordance with act is a registered card then it can already be bound to a particular game but it may still need to have associated attributes defined by the rules of the particular game and thus revealed to the user.

If the game card transmitted in accordance with act is a pseudo card then at reference numeral the pseudo card can be employed for purposes relating to fraud mitigation. For example if the gaming network is in receipt of a high number of pseudo game cards associated with a particular game space and or user then the account can be flagged for further investigation. Moreover suspicious activity can result in a forfeiture of some or many of a user s game cards.

At reference numeral game card trading can be facilitated amongst users. Generally both registered and generic cards can be traded however due to the respective natures of both certain types of trades can be prohibited in accordance with a rule set implemented by the gaming network. For example it is generally of little value to exchange one generic card for another generic card. Thus trades involving generic cards will typically be limited to one way transfers or swaps e.g. one card for another card if the swap also involves a registered card such as e.g. trading two generic cards for one registered that has attributes particularly coveted by one of the parties to the transaction. It is to be appreciated that other assets can potentially exist on the gaming network and or the game space of users for which game cards can be exchanged.

At reference numeral a service associated with the gaming network can be employed for facilitating the game card trading described in connection with act . By associated in this case it is intended to mean that the gaming network allows such transactions and as such might still be able to enforce rule sets related to the gaming network the game cards and or the games provided by the gaming network e.g. the online service and the gaming network share a universal login identity for the respective accounts of a user. Associated is not intended to mean that the service is a subsidiary of the gaming network. Rather the service can be a disparate service and even a disparate service the gaming network is promoting as substantially described supra. At reference numeral the gaming network can be employed for facilitating the game card trading detailed at act .

In reference to an illustration of an exemplary game is depicted. It is to be understood that the game is intended to provide one concrete example to aid in understanding of the claimed subject matter but is not intended to be limiting to only the aspects described. As shown the board of the game is comprised of 25 blocks five blocks for each column and row. The game can be e.g. a two person or more competitive pattern game . The object of the game is for one player to create a continuous path from the left side of the board to the right side e.g. the object for the player with the lighter shaded game tiles . The object for the player using the darker shaded game tiles is to construct a continuous path from the top to the bottom of the board.

Play alternates from one player to the next where each player places a tile from his or her tile library on the board in blocks adjacent to one where a tile has been already placed. As illustrated each tile includes a path that can be connected to previously or subsequently placed tiles . Tiles can be placed on vacant blocks or superimposed over other tiles and both players can use all available paths to reach the respective destination.

It is to be appreciated that game play as well as the potential for victory can be a function of the tiles in a player s tile library. Moreover the tile library can be built by the game cards e.g. game cards from described herein. For example a user can register a generic game card with the game upon which the registered game card is endowed with attributes assigned it by the game . In accordance therewith a user s experiences with respect to the game can be enhanced by game cards.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of an exemplary computer system operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject invention and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the invention can be implemented. Additionally while the invention has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media can include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the invention includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples to system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject invention.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the invention.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the invention can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of an exemplary computer compilation system operable to execute the disclosed architecture. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the invention for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the invention for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

What has been described above includes examples of the various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the detailed description is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the embodiments. In this regard it will also be recognized that the embodiments includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods.

In addition while a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

