---

title: Metadata producer
abstract: The present invention provides an automated metadata producer, or “markup manager.” According to one aspect, the markup manager allows disparate resources to be made into useful objects by producing appropriate metadata and associating it with the original resources. In one example, a markup manager according to the invention first analyzes the original resources and outputs appropriate, descriptive metadata; then it creates a new document which includes both the metadata and an indicator to the original resource. The resource analysis and metadata production is accomplished by an algorithm in which first a “metadata schema” and a “perspective” (or facet) is selected (by the user or requesting program); then an automatic categorization step is taken where the appropriate metadata are found with respect to the selected perspective; then a transformation step is taken in which the autocategorized analyses are translated into the target metadata schema.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08271542&OS=08271542&RS=08271542
owner: 
number: 08271542
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070103
---
The present application is based on and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Appln. No. 60 756 047 filed Jan. 3 2006 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention is related to data organization and more particularly to a method and apparatus for producing metadata.

Computers enable multiple uses of digital resources which are often organized for convenient access by various indexing methods for example databases document directories structured document libraries or full text indexes. Very frequently human computer users and information consuming programs have interest in combining digital resources from varying formats collections and indexes. There exists no general algorithm or automated method for combining diverse digital resources for arbitrary purposes.

For digital resources to be used in combination by automated processes there must be indications about their properties how they are used under what conditions etc. These indications can be located separately and independently from the resources themselves e.g. as associated indices databases or documentation or they may be directly associated with each resource. The latter resource indications are called metadata data that refers to other data. Metadata for instance provide the ground level basis for enabling the semantic web currently being developed by the World Wide Web Consortium.

One example of current usage of metadata is in e learning as illustrated in . In this application as shown in metadata are needed to provide structure for diverse types of resources. If educational resources can be associated with meaningful and reliable metadata then they can be used as learning objects that is they can be combined into composite materials that can be used to satisfy educational goals. Generally stated for digital educational resources to be effectively reused arbitrarily accessed recombined applied in curricula they must be associated with indications of their usage prerequisites grade level assessment measures etc. which are typically expressed as metadata.

The pragmatic problem is how to markup the target resources with appropriate metadata. The current state of the art is to follow documented procedures for marking up metadata following some prescribed practices possibly using some software tools to help guide and interactively document the process of metadata markup.

Although the overall process of using digital resources i.e. creating organizing disseminating finding applying and combining them has heretofore required significant time and effort to be effective many aspects have been accelerated and finely tuned e.g. by full text search and by knowledge management tools which aid in the task of organizing document collections. If documents have high quality metadata then even unstructured data such as distributed educational resources from disparate sources can be effectively used and reused in alternative ways. However problems persist in getting high quality metadata that are well associated with the resources that they are meant to describe. The main problems have been reliable tagging consistent and reproducible methods rather than idiosyncratic valid correspondence stated relationships with other objects that fit with the views and perceptions of other computer users and of software tools and evolution reliable and valid changes of the metadata as other contextual matters change around the objects that they represent . This is still currently done by laborious processes even when aided by commercial metadata management software tools such as those offered by Autonomy Inc and Vivisimo Inc.

A related problem is that data standards such as Dublin Core DC http dublincore.org and Metadata Object Description Schema MODS maintained by the Library of Congress http www.loc.gov standards mods emerge and then change over time. Current metadata management tools cannot adapt to multiple schema and so different schema require different conventional tools. Also conventional metadata markup is still too variable difficult and costly for people to manage efficiently and reliably. To be useful software tools must fully automate the process allowing people to select modify extend their requirements for metadata markup. Another problem is that validity of metadata will always degrade over time unless it can be automatically updated in response to changing conditions. Stated in a metaphorical way people using Learning Objects for example should be enabled to act more like car drivers selectors connoisseurs or managers and less like mule drivers overloaded and frustrated or custom mechanics experts in the technical innards of the objects .

Accordingly there remains an acute and growing need in the art for an effective and completely automated process of metadata markup.

The present invention provides an automated metadata producer or metadata markup manager. According to one aspect the markup manager allows heterogeneous and disparate resources to be combined into aggregated useful objects by producing appropriate metadata and associating the metadata with the original resources. In one example a markup manager according to the invention first analyzes the original resources then it outputs metadata that appropriately describes the content of the resources finally it creates a new document which includes both the descriptive metadata and an indicator to the original resource. The resource analysis and metadata production is accomplished by an algorithm in which first a metadata schema and a perspective or facet is selected by the user or requesting program then an automatic categorization step is taken where the appropriate metadata are found with respect to the selected metadata schema and facet then a filtering step is taken in which some metadata may be refined or discarded this step may be done either by software filters or human intervention or a combination of the two finally metadata descriptive of the source documents resources are produced and made available as a new type of resource for use in selecting applying and aggregating the sources.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably the figures and examples below are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention to a single embodiment but other embodiments are possible by way of interchange of some or all of the described or illustrated elements. Moreover where certain elements of the present invention can be partially or fully implemented using known components only those portions of such known components that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention will be described and detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. In the present specification an embodiment showing a singular component should not be considered limiting rather the invention is intended to encompass other embodiments including a plurality of the same component and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise herein. Moreover applicants do not intend for any term in the specification or claims to be ascribed an uncommon or special meaning unless explicitly set forth as such. Further the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the known components referred to herein by way of illustration.

According to one aspect the present invention is an automated metadata producer or markup manager and is embodied as a set of functions within an overall software product running on a conventional desktop or laptop computer using a conventional operating system such as Windows Linux Unix or Apple OS X.

In an example context shown in of marking up educational resources the markup manager allows disparate resources e.g. documents library entries web pages etc. to be made into learning objects by producing appropriate metadata and associating it with the original resources.

In general operation MM first analyzes the original resources and outputs appropriate descriptive metadata. Then it creates a new document which includes both the metadata and an indicator to the original resource by a URI universal resource indicator . The resource analysis and metadata production can include an algorithm in which first a metadata schema and or perspective or facet is selected by the user or requesting program . Then an automatic categorization step can be taken where the appropriate metadata are found with respect to the selected perspective. Next the synthesized metadata are translated into the selected metadata schema associated with the original resources and organized into a form for use as metadata which can be interoperable with other software processes such as document categorizing tools for libraries e.g. Koha from LibLime Concourse from Book Systems Inc. L4U from Kelowna Software Eloquent Librarian and Insignia Library System and content learning management systems e.g. open source tools like Sakai courseware tools like Click2learn Docent Intellinex and Saba and training information systems like IBM Mindspan Intellinex KnowledgePlanet Learnframe Pathlore Plateau Systems SmartForce THINQ and Vuepoint . The generation of output metadata can be accomplished by a process using a standard transformation language for example Extensible Stylesheet Language Family Transformations XSLT . Finally an optional filtering step may also be taken in which some metadata may be discarded this step may be done either by software filters or human intervention or a combination of the two .

An example implementation of markup manager will now be described in more detail in connection with an example process flow shown in . As shown in includes an initialization process a perspective selection process a metadata schema selection process an autocategorization process a metadata markup process and an optional refinement process . In one preferred embodiment the above processes are included in a single software program that can be executed in an operating environment such as MS Windows XP Unix Linux and can include a user interface for allowing selections and operations by a user or can be used as a Web Service following a REST or SOAP WSDL protocol.

It should be noted that the above processes need not be completely sequential and that various alternatives and substitutions can be made. Moreover the markup manager of the invention can be practiced using fewer or additional processes and can be included in larger programs. Still further the individual processes can be combined and separated in various ways so the exact number and functions included in the various processes can be modified while still providing similar overall functionality. Those skilled in the art will understand various implementation alternatives after being taught by the present disclosure.

Initialization process At the start of activation of MM some corpus of digital resources has been selected and gathered for analysis according to indications from the requesting user or program. The corpus may be composed of any number one or more documents or text streams i.e. resources from a variety of sources including document collections such as directories or archives digital libraries targeted searches e.g. within a Local Area Network Wide Area Network or the World Wide Web from full text search engines such as Google specified collections of online materials such as presentations weblogs wikis and instructional sources data gathering programs such as web crawlers or aggregations from any combination of those sources. The format of each resource may be of any decipherable type including text HTML RTF Microsoft Word Adobe Acrobat PostScript and other formats interpretable by an autocategorization module. In embodiments the invention is able to receive and work with documents or text streams of any public or known format except non tagged graphic images. In other embodiments the invention can operate on any corpus including combinations of documents and images. An aspect of the invention is the ability to produce automatically a detailed metadata description of the meaning of the corpus with contents possibly disparate across source locations local or remote source collection types and source formats.

Next alternative choices for the target metadata production are selected in either or both of processes and a metadata schema and a perspective respectively. Additional choices relating to depth of detail and precision can also be selected. As set forth further below the chosen schema specifies the language or dialect for the metadata markup results while the chosen perspective identifies the context or specialized view for describing the content of the corpus. Selection may be made either by a human user or by software parameters from a requesting program. If the requestor does not specify a perspective for analysis or a schema for metadata output MM can supply default selections.

Examples of the metadata schema that can be selected for use with the invention include the Dublin Core DC http dublincore.org the Metadata Object Description Schema MODS maintained by the Library of Congress http www.loc.gov standards mods the Sharable Courseware Object Reference Model SCORM http www.adlnet.org Scorm and the IEEE standard1484.12.1 2002 Learning Object Metadata LOM http ltsc.ieee.org wg12 consistent with IMS Packaging schema http www.imsglobal.org metadata .

Examples of perspectives that can be selected for use with the invention include library classification such as Library of Congress Classification Wikipedia open source classification structure and curricular e.g. organized for instructional presentation .

Selections for detail and precision may be chosen by a user or by a requesting software process. If not specified default selections can be supplied. In selecting detail level a low level will produce only the most important descriptors in content metadata for example subject and topic in the library oriented MODS schema or item title in the education oriented IMS schema a high level will produce more extensive metadata descriptors. The choice of precision depends on the user s interest in finding all descriptive metadata and possibly tolerating some descriptors that are marginally relevant versus finding the most closely germane descriptors and avoiding any results that are less than closely relevant . A choice of high precision produces high quality descriptors but may miss some that are also relevant a choice of low precision produces many relevant descriptors but may include some that are only slightly relevant.

Automatic categorization process organizes and classifies collected resources and documents into appropriate categories and structures results in preparation for transformation into metadata schema. In embodiments autocategorization is performed by a subroutine which is supplied by a process separate from the markup manager. Examples of autocategorization suppliers are cluster analysis programs IDOL from Autonomy Velocity from Vivisimo and ontology based programs Cyc from Cycorp TRA from Taxonomize . If specified by the requestor categorization fits into the selected perspective for example technology or industry or retail commerce and also with selected range precision and level of detail corresponding to the requestor s choices. If not specified by the requestor the algorithm can make default choices. Results of filtered categorization are expressed according to a base representation schema in Extensible Markup Language XML . This base schema includes the general concepts pertaining to resources and categories which can be used to map into terms of many different metadata schema. For example the base schema includes concepts of resources such as title URI categories including relative strength of association with each category and evidence relating the resource to the category and concepts of categories such as parent categories offspring categories textual clues and strategies for relating the category to resources. Once the autocategorization step has associated resources with the base schema those concepts can be used to translate into terms of target schema e.g. Taxon Path of the IEEE Learning Object Metadata LOM schema.

An example of a base schema from one possible embodiment of the markup manager invention is attached as Appendix 1 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. illustrates the autocategorization leading to production of the base schema representation shown in part in . These examples result from a sample usage of the invention in which a user invokes the markup manager prototype to gather 50 documents related to mechanics through a keyword search on the World Wide Web and to automatically produce descriptive metadata of the gathered corpus of documents according to a perspective of the Library of Congress classification structure. gives a partial view of the autocategorized search results gives a partial view of the XML base schema produced by the invention and Appendix 1 shows the base schema for this example. shows a browser window displaying the autocategorization of results of a Web search for documents relating to mechanics and organized according to a perspective of Library of Congress classification of books relating to physics. The left frame is a hierarchical outline of categories shown by folder like icons and related documents shown by page like icons . The right frame shows the content of any document which is selected in the left frame.

In metadata markup process metadata are produced fitting into the targeted schema. The results in base schema XML are transformed to conform with the target metadata schema. This step is accomplished using a standard transformation language for example Extensible Stylesheet Language Family Transformations XSLT . The transformation of schema is similar to language translation because terms in different schema generally have different meanings. As in translating between human languages some concepts can be translated precisely while others can only be translated approximately. One example of schema translation is from the invention s base schema to a generic outline schema which also can serve as an intermediate form in translating into other target schema like MODS IMS and LOM. Appendix 2 attached to the present specification and incorporated herein by reference gives the XSLT for translation into the outline schema and gives a partial view of a graphic representation of the outline schema for the example of describing a corpus of documents relating to mechanics gathered from the World Wide Web and organized according to a perspective of the Library of Congress classification structure.

The following table illustrates one example of how metadata are translated from a base schema into the Dublin Core metadata schema. In this example the resource s DC Subject and Description metadata are derived from the base schema s inferred categories for the resource. Some metadata elements in the DC schema are not derivable from auto categorization analyses such as Coverage and Rights.

The transformed metadata are associated with the original resources by creating a separate document which includes both the metadata conforming to the target schema and indicators to the original resources. This document is the metadata resource or meta resource in the e learning domain this meta resource document can be used as the basis for an automatically produced learning object. For example shows part of a metadata resource document for educational usage. This compilation of metadata for the document corpus can be used by learning management systems to guide instruction in the given topic of study.

It should be apparent that the present invention has many different applications other than producing useful learning objects. For example the principles of the invention can be applied to Internet search engines and the like. In this example the resources are generally web pages that are found using a search engine such as Google and the metadata producer allows the search results to be automatically organized according to a schema and facet.

Although the present invention has been particularly described with reference to the preferred embodiments thereof it should be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that changes and modifications in the form and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is intended that the appended claims encompass such changes and modifications.

