---

title: Cardiac pacing using the inferior nodal extension
abstract: A device and method for providing stimulation to an inferior nodal extension of a heart. The method includes providing a lead comprising an electrode, positioning the electrode proximate an inferior nodal extension of a heart, and effecting at least one of activation, deactivation, or modulation of the electrode to provide stimulation to the inferior nodal extension.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08391995&OS=08391995&RS=08391995
owner: The Washington University
number: 08391995
owner_city: St. Louis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071113
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 865 512 filed Nov. 13 2006 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to cardiac pacing. More particularly the embodiments of the present disclosure relate to cardiac pacing using the inferior nodal extension INE in the right atrium RA .

In a healthy heart a heartbeat originates in the RA in the sinoatrial SA node. Activation spreads quickly across the atria to the atrioventricular AV node which then delays the wave of excitation. The delay enables the atria to contract before the ventricles contract. After the activation is delayed by and leaves the AV node it enters and excites the bundle of His. This excitation of the bundle of His spreads in a precise pattern to the ventricles through the ventricular conduction system composed of Purkinje fibers. Excitation spreading through this system activates each ventricular cell at a precise time to produce a coordinated ventricular contraction.

For various reasons the AV node can be blocked referred to as AV block thus inhibiting or preventing utilization of the normal conduction system of the heart. AV block can also be therapeutically induced for rate control in patients with atrial fibrillation.

Ventricular pacing has been used for treating heart rhythm disorders when the normal conduction system of the heart can not be utilized due to AV block. However ventricular pacing does not provide a high degree of electrical synchrony in the ventricular cells that is required for optimal mechanical function of the heart. As has been recently discovered over long term this can result in an increased occurrence of congestive heart failure.

One specific type of ventricular pacing is pacing from the right ventricular RV apex of the heart. RV pacing has been used due to the stability of the type of lead and the ease of lead placement. Examples of venous pacing leads and electrodes for RV pacing are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 094 596. However direct RV pacing can lead to suboptimal ventricular performance such as desynchronized contractions negative inotropic effects histological and ultrastructural changes in ventricular tissue risks of congestive heart failure complications and even death.

Due to these drawbacks of RV pacing alternative pacing sites such as the RV outflow tract RVOT and various septal sites have been explored to improve cardiac hemodynamics during pacing. Further resynchronization therapy has been advanced by utilizing multiple ventricular pacing sites such as biventricular pacing. However the required physiological degree of synchrony may not be achieved using these alternative pacing methods. In addition the clinical consequences of RVOT pacing are unknown.

Direct His bundle pacing has also been used in an attempt to achieve synchronized ventricular contraction in patients with an intact ventricular conduction system. However there can be limitations associated with His bundle pacing in humans. For example studies have reported difficulty in pacing the relatively small area of the His bundle and difficulty inserting a pacing lead into the membranous septum. Further higher pacing and lower sensing thresholds can be required for His pacing than for RV pacing due to the high fibrous content of the His region. Also because His bundle pacing site is located close to aorta there are potential devastating consequences of damage of the aorta.

Accordingly there is a need for improved cardiac pacing devices and methods overcoming the deficiencies with conventional cardiac pacing.

Cardiac pacing methods and systems according to embodiments of the present disclosure exploit the coupling between the INE and the His bundle to achieve His bundle excitation without engaging the compact AV node. In an embodiment this can be accomplished by using the INE located in the RA to excite the bundle of His directly and effectively bypass the AV node.

In an embodiment a method of providing stimulation to an inferior nodal extension of a heart includes providing a lead including an electrode positioning the electrode proximate an inferior nodal extension of a heart and effecting at least one of activation deactivation or modulation of the electrode to provide stimulation to the inferior nodal extension.

In another embodiment a method of pacing a heart includes providing a lead including an electrode positioning the electrode within an anatomically effective distance to provide stimulation to an inferior nodal extension such as within about 5 6 mm of the tricuspid valve within the triangle of Koch of the heart for humans and effecting at least one of activation deactivation or modulation of the electrode to excite a bundle of His of the heart to produce synchronized ventricular contractions.

In a further embodiment a method of providing stimulation to an inferior nodal extension of a heart includes providing a lead including an electrode and providing instructions to effect movement of the lead such that the electrode is positioned proximate an inferior nodal extension of a heart and effect at least one of activation deactivation or modulation of the electrode to provide stimulation to the inferior nodal extension.

A device for providing stimulation to an inferior nodal extension including a lead having a distal portion and a proximal portion the distal portion having first and second electrodes presented therewith and a screw portion presented at the distal portion the screw portion extending from a tip of the lead at the distal portion and extending past the first and second electrodes towards the proximal portion.

A human heart is depicted in . depicts the following structures of heart RA left atrium LA RV left ventricle LV superior vena cava SVC inferior vena cava IVC aortic arch and pulmonary artery .

Referring to the following structures are depicted in a close up view of a portion of heart INE tricuspid annulus coronary sinus CS CS ostium compact AV node interatrial septum lower nodal bundle His bundle tendon of Todaro and ventricular septum . Another structure depicted in phantom lines in the heart is AV nodal vein and an ostium thereof which can provide an approach to INE through AV node via CS .

Referring again to AV node has at least two inputs which connect AV node to the surrounding atrial myocardium each with unique electrophysiological properties the FP and the SP INE. The FP input to AV node which lies near the apex of the triangle of Koch in the RA has a relatively fast conduction velocity and long refractory period. The SP input on the other hand is located near the tricuspid valve in the isthmus between the tricuspid annulus and the coronary sinus ostium in the RA . The SP possesses a relatively slow conduction velocity and relatively short refractory period. The distinct functional characteristics of the FP and SP are clinically manifested as AV nodal reentrant tachycardia AVNRT .

The coupling of the INE to the His bundle enables the exploitation of this connection to achieve His bundle excitation without engaging the compact AV node . As depicted in and as discussed in further below with respect to an approach to the INE exists through AV nodal vein via the CS thereby reducing difficulties that can be associated with electrode placement. In some cases the AV nodal vein opens directly to the triangle of Koch.

The INE can be electrically stimulated to produce synchronized ventricular contractions via the normal conduction system of the heart. Excitation produced by pacing of the INE bypasses the compact AV node of the heart via the connexin 43 positive lower nodal bundle and thus can be used in some patients with AV block. Specifically by using the INE as a site for placement of a pacing electrode restoration of AV conduction in patients with various degrees of AV block can be accomplished. In addition use of the INE as a site for placement of a pacing electrode enables normal synchronous excitation via the specialized conduction system of the heart.

In pacing the INE advantages include that a pacing lead does not have to be passed through any valves in the heart which can otherwise reduce the effectiveness of the valve functionality. Further with respect to synchronized ventricular contractions positioning a pacing lead on the left side of the heart is not required.

Also pacing INEs can solve the problem of the electrical and mechanical asynchrony that can be associated with conventional RV and biventricular pacing. The synchronous ventricular contraction produced by INE pacing can be used to reduce the potential for pacing induced heart failure in patients.

The existence of the INE SP bypass tract in the RA enables using the INE for long term synchronized pacing. Locating the pacing site can be straightforward for at least the following reasons 1 the INE SP has a unique electrogram signature which can be used to guide the electrophysiologist during lead implantation 2 because the INE SP has been a preferred target for ablation of AVNRT electrophysiologists have already developed the tools necessary to locate it and 3 INE SP capture can have a higher threshold than the surrounding atrial tissue which can be used to differentiate INE SP capture from capture of atrial tissue.

Also pacing from the INE SP can have several advantages over direct His bundle pacing 1 a relatively large area of the RA can be paced to activate the INE SP which can alleviate the difficulty of pacing the small His region located close to aorta 2 INE SP pacing can be used to avoid RVOT pacing 3 INE SP pacing can have lower pacing thresholds than that required for His bundle pacing due to the fibrous tissue surrounding the His bundle and 4 INE SP pacing can leave the normal AV node conduction pathway untouched while achieving a synchronized ventricular contraction thus avoiding potential tissue damage that direct His bundle pacing can entail and 5 the venous approach to the INE SP can provide a stable lead placement site reducing the number or lead dislodgements seen with direct His bundle pacing. As an example in patients with intermittent AV block INE SP pacing can be a therapeutic solution enabling the natural pacemaking and conduction system to pace the heart when it can and pacing the INE SP to achieve a synchronized ventricular contraction when needed.

As discussed in detail herein such as with respect to there are several approaches to the INE such as an endocardial and venous approaches. Various venous and atrial pacing leads and electrodes that can be used with INE pacing according to the various embodiments are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 745 081 6 094 596 6 085 119 6 070 081 5 545 204 4 136 703 and 3 729 008 and PCT Publication Nos. WO 2006 042295 and WO 96 10961 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Incorporation by reference is limited such that no subject matter is incorporated that is contrary to the explicit disclosure herein no claims included in the documents are incorporated by reference herein and any definitions provided in the documents are not incorporated by reference herein unless expressly included herein.

Referring to a first approach to the INE is endocardial. A device comprises a lead and a catheter . Lead comprises a proximal portion and a distal portion . Catheter and distal portion of lead are inserted into the RA through the SVC. A tip of lead can be inserted such as by screwing into atrial tissue above INE . The insertion site in the atrial tissue can be within an anatomically effective distance to provide stimulation to an inferior nodal extension such as within 5 mm to about 6 mm of the tricuspid valve within the triangle of Koch of the heart for humans. In embodiments the insertion site in the atrial tissue can be within about 3 mm of the INE for humans. In other embodiments the insertion site in the atrial tissue can be within about 5 mm of the INE for humans. Those skilled in the art will recognize that insertion site in the atrial tissue can be more than about 5 mm or less than about 3 mm of the INE. Once lead is inserted into atrial tissue above INE catheter can be withdrawn or remain with lead . The INE of the human as well as the venous approach to the INE is discussed in further detail in Hucker et al. Connexin 43 Expression delineates two discrete pathways in the human atrioventricular junction Anatomical Record 2007 attached as Appendix A hereto which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Referring to lead tip in this embodiment can include first second and third electrodes and a screw portion surrounding the distal most two electrodes . Lead tip can further include a point which can be inserted into the atrial tissue for pacing and sensing the INE. Lead tip can then be screwed into atrial tissue above the INE by effecting a screwing motion of lead tip such that screw portion drives lead tip into atrial tissue. Third electrode can be used for far field sensing of ventricular contractions.

To achieve long term pacing with this approach screw portion can be about 2.0 mm to about 3.0 mm long and can surround pacing and optionally sensing electrodes. The pacing electrodes such as can be buried within the atrial tissue. Those skilled in the art will recognize that greater than or fewer than three electrodes can be included on pacing lead . Those skilled in the art will also recognize that screw portion can be shorter than about 2.0 mm and longer than about 3.0 mm or that other alternatives for securing lead tip to INE pacing site can be used.

An AV nodal vein approach is depicted in . A device comprises a lead and a catheter . Lead comprises a proximal portion and a distal portion . Specifically referring again to an approach to INE exists through AV nodal vein via the CS . In some cases AV nodal vein opens directly to the triangle of Koch. Catheter and distal portion of lead are inserted into the RA through SVC into CS through ostium of CS and into AV nodal vein to INE . A tip of lead in this embodiment can comprise first second third and fourth electrodes 

There are catheter insertion methods and designs that enable navigating the CS and inserting the catheter and lead into the heart. Such insertion methods are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 745 081 6 070 081 and 5 545 204 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Incorporation by reference is limited such that no subject matter is incorporated that is contrary to the explicit disclosure herein no claims included in the documents are incorporated by reference herein and any definitions provided in the documents are not incorporated by reference herein unless expressly included herein.

The catheter design of the embodiments can differ from conventional catheter designs in that it can be shorter than those used for epicardial pacing and can be steerable enabling the catheter tip to enter the AV nodal vein. For example to facilitate entry into the AV nodal vein the tip of the catheter can have a slight bend such as between about 10.degree. and about 60.degree. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in further embodiments the tip of the catheter can have a bend less than about 10.degree. and greater than about 60.degree.

Referring again to lead tip according to embodiments can comprise multiple electrodes depicted as having three and four electrodes respectively which can be switched from sensing to pacing. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in further embodiments greater than four or fewer than three electrodes can be included on the lead tip. Unipolar sensing on each lead can be used to determine which lead has the most robust slow pathway signal. The lead can then be switched to be the pacing lead and SP pacing can be accomplished with this lead. The non pacing leads can then be used to monitor ventricular rate during pacing which can be done in bipolar mode.

The circuit diagram in illustrates an embodiment of how each lead electrode of a lead can be switched from a pacing function to a sensing function. Two leads electrodes are depicted in the diagram for clarity. Circuit comprises a plurality of switches a first ground and a second ground a capacity a battery electrocardiogram ECG sensing circuitry and a plurality of electrodes 

When switch is closed the capacitor can charge and when switch is open capacitor is disconnected from battery . With switches and closed a unipolar ECG can be sensed from both lead and lead with the reference lead for ECG sensing circuitry being the can of the device. ECG sensing circuitry decides which lead has the best slow pathway ECG. Then switches and open and switch or which are controlled by ECG sensing circuitry close to connect lead with the best slow pathway potential to capacitor for unipolar pacing. Those skilled in the art recognize that electrical stimulation can be delivered in any number of ways electronically and in any number of wave shapes frequency voltage and timing.

Synchronized ventricular pacing is described further in Hucker et al. entitled Atrio Ventricular Conduction with and without AV Nodal Delay Two Pathways to the Bundle of His in the Rabbit Heart Am. J. Physiol. Heart Cir. Physiol. October 2007 293 2 H1122 30 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

New Zealand White rabbits n 18 2.5 3 months old 2 3 kg were anesthetized with 100 mg kg pentobarbital sodium and 1 000 IU heparin intravenously after which a midsternal thoracotomy was performed and the heart removed. The heart was Langendorff perfused with oxygenated 95 O.sub.2 5 CO.sub.2 Tyrode at 37.degree. C. and received 50.mu.1 of 5.mu.M Di 4 ANEPPS Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. over 5 minutes. The study was conducted in superfused isolated AV junctions n 8 and in Langendorff perfused hearts n 10 with the AV junction exposed via right atriotomy. For superfused experiments the AV junction was dissected in cold Tyrode 0.degree. C. and the sinoatrial node was removed. The preparation was superfused at 30 ml min with Tyrode containing 15 mM of the excitation contraction uncoupler 2 3 butanedione monoxime Sigma St. Louis Mo. to inhibit motion artifacts. A 16.times.16 photodiode array was used with an optical mapping system. Optical signals were sampled at 1.5 kHz averaged and low pass filtered at 120 Hz. Optical activation maps displayed the optical signal derivative which corresponds to wave fronts of excitation.

Electrodes were placed on the IAS and CrT and a quadruple electrode on the His bundle recorded both the superior and inferior His electrogram SHE and IHE respectively to monitor fast His and slow His excitation.

Changes in His excitation and His electrogram morphology can occur from changes in the AV node excitation pathway because of the specific pacing protocol and alternating conduction pathways. If the AV node and His are excited by the SP i.e. slow His excitation the IHE has a larger amplitude than when the AV node is activated by the FP. Conversely when the FP excites the AV node and His i.e. fast His excitation the SHE has a larger amplitude than with slow His excitation.

The location of each electrode is depicted in . A fourth roaming electrode was used to record electrograms throughout the triangle of Koch. A schematic of the triangle of Koch is depicted in . The reference lead was located 3 mm from the electrode tip. The TEFLON coated 0.13 mm Pt Ir wire tip had .about.0.07 mm stripped to mimic a clinical hemispheric tip. This electrode was mounted on a force transducer FORT25 World Precision Instruments Sarasota Fla. to control contact force ensuring that contact force was minimal and consistent between locations. The roaming electrode was moved in 1 mm increments by a motorized micromanipulator throughout the triangle of Koch grid in . Electrograms were recorded at 1.5 kHz National Instruments Austin Tex. and each electrode location was digitally photographed.

The preparation was paced from two electrodes the IAS electrode and the roaming electrode . IAS pacing was constant at 2.times. threshold .about.2 mA with 2 ms pulses and 300 ms cycle length . IAS pacing simulated sinus pacing and was used to mask the AV junctional rhythm which originates in the SP as well as to maintain tissue excitability in a consistent state as the roaming electrode was moved from location to location. Stimulation thresholds were determined with a ramp of unipolar pulses 0.5 ms pulses 300 ms cycle length amplitude ranging from 0.33 to 10 mA and increasing by 0.33 mA with each pulse . Each ramp pulse was delivered 45 60 ms before an IAS pacing pulse . The pacing ramp was delivered from the roaming electrode for anywhere from 14 24 locations throughout the triangle of Koch grid in enabling quick determination of threshold for each location. Pacing threshold was defined as the amplitude of the ramp pulse that caused a shift in the activation pattern from IAS pacing to stimulation beginning from the roaming electrode.

The schematic in indicates the approximate location of the inputs to the SP and FP. Although the anatomic substrate of the SP is often thought to be the INE the anatomic substrate of the FP is less well defined and consists of TCs that overlay the compact AV node.

Electrograms and OAPs were compared that were recorded during IAS pacing. Each trace began at the moment of IAS pacing and was 300 ms long. directly compares electrograms and OAPs recorded from the same site. During IAS pacing the AV node is activated by the FP and the SP acts as a dead end pathway. Electrograms for atrial tissue all have a sharp signal immediately after the pacing artifact which signifies fast conduction through the atrial myocardium. OAPs for atrial tissue have atrial action potential morphology. Electrograms for His contain both a fast signal directly after the pacing artifact similar in timing to that seen in traces for atrial tissue and another sharp spike .about.80 ms later which reflects His excitation. OAPs for His have two humps that are the summation of atrial and His excitation. The first hump corresponds to atrial activation whereas the second hump has the distinct plateau phase of His activation. Electrograms for nodal and SP contain several components. The first component matches in time the signals seen in the electrogram for atrial tissue and is followed by complex low amplitude biphasic recordings that are consistent with slow conduction during the interval between atrial and His excitation. Electrograms for nodal are located near the anatomic location of the AV node and OAPs for nodal have a nodal morphology. Electrograms and OAPs for SP are located along the SP. There is overlap in the characteristics of the electrograms and OAPs for nodal and SP.

Referring again to the sharpest spikes in the electrograms correspond to the dF dtmax of the fluorescent optical signals. In the nodal and SP traces the slow conduction characteristics of the electrograms correlate well with the OAPs from the same location. One exception is the spike seen in the nodal electrogram which occurs during the plateau of the OAP. On the basis of the timing of this spike relative to the bipolar IHE this spike most likely reflects excitation of the nodal His NH region of the node or the lower nodal bundle LNB where excitation accelerates into the His bundle.

Pacing stimuli applied within the triangle of Koch produced different activation patterns depending on where the stimuli were delivered. The activation pattern caused by IAS pacing originated from the IAS electrode and spread rapidly across atrial tissue and TCs that lie above the conduction system in the triangle of Koch which activated the FP of the AV node. Because activation maps display dF dt there is no conduction visible from .about.50 to 70 ms when there is exclusively slow AV node conduction which has a low amplitude dF dt . After this period His excitation occurred which actually began in the LNB region. The interval between IAS pacing and His excitation was 70 ms.

At many pacing locations within the triangle of Koch pacing from the roaming electrode caused an atrial FP activation pattern similar to that seen with IAS pacing.

When the roaming electrode was placed within 2 mm of the tricuspid valve within the triangle of Koch it excited the SP. SP activation appears as a slow narrow activation pattern that moved toward the apex of the triangle of Koch. After it reached the AV node region excitation continued toward the His bundle without pause and also spread retrogradely across the IAS. In the SHE trace the His electrogram morphology changed to a slow His morphology with a smaller amplitude during SP pacing and returned to its original morphology after the ramp ended. The interval between stimulation and His excitation the S H interval is paradoxically longer for fast His excitation than for slow His excitation. Slow His electrograms were observed in six of eight superfused experiments.

Similar optical activation patterns for SP and atrial FP activation were observed in the AV junctions of Langendorff perfused hearts. An IHE trace for activation maps of SP pacing is depicted in . SP pacing in the whole heart produced a slow narrow activation pattern followed without pause with His activation. In the intact heart His activation was followed by a robust ventricular optical signal that could be seen through the overlying atrial tissue. Atrial activation preceded ventricular activation by 10 15 ms.

IAS pacing produced a fast wave of excitation that spread across the atrial tissue and TCs. After atrial activation excitation spread from the AV node region in two directions the wave front of His excitation spread toward the His electrode and a wave front of decremental conduction spread down the SP and died out. Ventricular activation followed His excitation. A small amplitude fast His potential is seen in for IHE with IAS pacing i.e. the IHE deflection is larger with SP pacing than with IAS pacing .

Once SP activation of the His bundle has occurred the SP would excite the His bundle throughout the duration of the stimulation ramp in a 1 1 fashion. However this was not the case for all pacing locations that produced FP excitation. As depicted in pacing near the superior border of the AV node often disrupted AV conduction by causing 2 1 AV block or prolonged AV conduction. In the example depicted in IAS pacing conducted 1 1 to the His before the stimulation ramp crossed threshold seen in both the electrograms and the OAP recorded above the His bundle. Once the stimulation ramp crossed threshold it excited atrial tissue seen in the shift in both the OAP and the CrT trace but excitation did not propagate to the His. In the next beat excitation propagates to the His seen in the OAP and the IHE and conduction continues in this 2 1 fashion. Therefore AV conduction was disrupted by pacing in this location. Pacing stimuli delivered to this area of the triangle of Koch caused 2 1 AV block or prolonged AV conduction in five of eight experiments. Once AV conduction was disrupted it did not fully recover in any of the five experiments suggesting that the effect of pacing in this area was not neurologically mediated. The S H interval was measured for each pacing location.

The S H interval usually stabilized three to five pulses after threshold was reached and these stable values were measured. S H intervals at high stimulus intensities where a greater amount of tissue was presumably depolarized by far field stimulation were discarded because the S H intervals at the end of the ramp were generally different from the stable S H intervals. Rarely S H intervals did not stabilize and linearly decreased throughout the ramp in which case the range of S H intervals was noted. Also any S H interval that was recorded after AV conduction was disrupted was discarded from the analyses as depicted in . S H intervals were divided into two groups those associated with atrial FP activation and those associated with SP His activation. When plotted against the horizontal distance from the His electrode atrial S H intervals illustrated no distance dependence P not significant but instead remained at a constant level of 81 19 ms. This constant interval between an atrial stimulus and His excitation is the AV delay. S H intervals associated with SP and His excitation exhibited a strong correlation with distance from the His electrode P

The results support previous findings that several layers of conduction exist in the triangle of Koch. Now it was further demonstrated that these layers can be differentially engaged with varying stimulus strengths and pacing locations. It was found that stimulation thresholds for atrial excitation are significantly lower than for SP His activation with the exception of one area beneath the coronary sinus. Using the activation pattern documented by optical mapping as well as slow His electrograms SP excitation was verified and it was found that not only do S H intervals decrease linearly as the stimulus location approaches the His bundle for SP excitation whereas S H intervals associated with atrial FP activation remain nearly constant but also that paradoxically S H intervals for the SP are shorter than those recorded for FP activation.

Because of the different modalities used to study the AV junction there is a lack of common terminology for its components. For instance many previous studies have referred to the AV node extension located in the isthmus between the coronary sinus and the tricuspid valve as the posterior nodal extension. However a naming task force has indicated that the INE more accurately describes its location when the heart is anatomically oriented. Previous studies have described layers of atrial cells and TCs overlying the components of the conduction system in the triangle of Koch such as the INE AV node and His bundle. Functional studies have provided evidence that the INE is the anatomic substrate of the SP. However there is debate regarding whether the INE itself the TCs overlying the INE or a combination is the true substrate of the SP. The results can not distinguish which cell layer or structure produced SP excitation. However optical mapping results confirm that this pathway can be reliably excited by pacing stimuli delivered within 2 mm of the tricuspid valve within the triangle of Koch. Plotting S H intervals of atrial excitation against the distance from the His electrode revealed no correlation . The S H interval of atrial activation is composed of two intervals conduction time in the atrial layer and FP S AV node interval and AV node conduction to the His bundle the AV delay . Because conduction in the atrial layer is fast 35 cm s small changes in the distance between the stimulating electrode and the His electrode change the S AV node interval minimally. Therefore the main determinant of the S H interval is the AV delay which remains essentially constant.

On the other hand plotting S H intervals of SP excitation vs. distance from the His electrode illustrated a strong correlation . A greater dependence on distance would be expected for SP activation because as the name implies the SP conducts slowly .about.7 cm s . Therefore one would expect the S AV node interval to decrease slightly as the distance between the stimulus and the AV node decreased. However once conduction time in the SP is minimal the S H interval should be determined by the AV delay which is 81. 0.19 ms according to the atrial activation data . As the His bundle is approached further the S H interval should then jump to a very small value when direct His activation occurs. Instead the raw data and the pooled data in depict S H intervals almost entirely

Studies have investigated the rate dependent properties of the SP vs. the FP in the context of premature stimuli most commonly with pacing stimuli applied in the high right atrium or to the CrT. On the basis of these studies the SP was given its name because excitation took longer to reach the His bundle than through the FP. However it was found that SP excitation reached the His bundle faster than FP excitation. Despite this apparent paradox results are fully consistent with the large body of evidence concerning the SP for two reasons. First SP excitation in previous studies traveled the full length of the SP which data indicates would have an S H interval similar to FP excitation right . In the context of a premature beat this activation would take even longer. In the absence of pacing stimuli applied directly to the SP SP conduction to the His only occurs when a premature stimulus encounters a refractory FP . Because conduction traveling the full length of the SP takes the same amount of time as the AV delay or longer with premature stimuli it could be difficult to recognize that SP conduction avoided the AV delay. Only through pacing the SP incrementally along its length could it become apparent that SP excitation does not experience the same AV delay as FP excitation. Second the SP was engaged directly potentially avoiding any conduction delay that may occur at the interface of the atrial tissue with the SP . This interface may be responsible for an additional delay in conduction which would slow SP conduction even further.

Pacing was done at 300 ms within the triangle of Koch close to the AV node itself. Therefore one interpretation of the data is that because of the His bundle proximity pacing stimuli excited the His bundle directly when stimuli were delivered within 2 mm of the tricuspid annulus and the SP was not involved. Direct stimulation of the His bundle would certainly result in short S H intervals. However this possibility is unlikely for two reasons. First SP activation was confirmed by being visualized with optical mapping. Second pacing stimuli applied much closer to the His bundle itself produced atrial activation with an AV delay of .about.80 ms or longer throughout the entire pacing ramp. Therefore it seems that the tissue area initially captured by the pacing stimulus was rather small. Also the S H intervals that were analyzed were measured three to five beats after the pacing ramp reached threshold i.e. 

There is a growing consensus in the literature that the His LNB and the INE form a continuous structure distinct from the compact AV node tissue on a morphological molecular and functional basis. The data suggests that instead of a final common pathway as classically suggested there are instead two pathways to the His bundle one through the compact node and the other through the LNB. Similar arguments have been put forth suggesting that the INE connects to the His bundle through the LNB and that the FP passes through the compact node. The concept of two pathways to the His is supported by changes in His electrogram morphologies i.e. slow His and fast His electrograms . The distinct His electrogram signatures of FP or SP activation indicate that the activating pathway influences how the His bundle or which part of the His bundle is depolarized.

Based on this dual pathway concept the data suggests that SP excitation begins in either the inferior TCs or the INE itself and travels via the INE to the His bundle through the LNB with a gradient of conduction velocities. As excitation approaches the His the level of connexin 43 increases and conduction velocity increases until the His bundle is reached. FP activation from the atrial tissue surrounding the AV node funnels into the compact node via the TCs that overlie the AV node. The AV node delay is due to the compact nodal tissue and its connecting TCs after which excitation passes to the His. Interestingly a small region was identified below the coronary sinus where stimulation thresholds were significantly higher than the surrounding myocardium. This area may serve as a localized area of block contributing to anisotropy in the atrial myocardium and may play a role in atrial flutter and fibrillation similar to the block zone in the intercaval region that can maintain typical atrial flutter.

The existence of an SP bypass tract in the right atrium expands the area that can be paced to achieve His bundle excitation with direct His bundle pacing procedures alleviating the difficulty of pacing the small His region located close to aorta. Locating the SP pacing location could be guided by the slow conduction characteristics in SP electrograms such as depicted in which are used to guide SP ablations during AVNRT procedures. SP pacing may very well have lower pacing thresholds than those required for His bundle pacing because of the fibrous tissue surrounding the His bundle. Experiments in the rabbit revealed that SP pacing and direct His pacing had pacing thresholds that were not statistically different. However in the rabbit the endocardial side of the His bundle is only covered by a small amount of connective tissue whereas in the human the His bundle is encased in the fibrous tissue of the central fibrous body. Therefore it is possible that SP pacing in the human will have a lower threshold than His bundle pacing. Additionally pacing thresholds for right ventricular epicardial pacing and SP His pacing were not statistically different in the whole heart experiments suggesting that clinical SP pacing thresholds may be close to pacing thresholds for right ventricular pacing. However this study was conducted in normal rabbit AV junction preparations where no attempt was made to disrupt AV conduction. Conduction curves are the gold standard used to investigate AV node dual pathway electrophysiology. Because of the number of pacing locations investigated it was not possible to construct conduction curves for each. Although conduction curves are very useful clinical tools optical mapping in the preparations confirmed the distinct activation patterns of FP vs. SP activation and optical mapping of SP excitation corresponds very well to SP optical mapping performed during standard S1 S2 protocols. Additionally slow His potentials provided another line of evidence for FP vs. SP participation in conduction.

Further description is included in Hucker et al. Atrioventricular Conduction With and Without AV Delay Two Pathways to the Bundle of His in the Rabbit Heart Am. J. Physiol. Heart Circ. Physiol. 2007 August 293 2 H1122 30 which in incorporated herein by reference in its entirely.

The INE can also be used for biological pacemaker therapy. Specifically the INE is the secondary physiological pacemaker of the heart and can be modified to become the leading pacemaker during failure of sinus nodal pacemaker. The inherent pacemaking properties of the INE can be enhanced to reach normal physiological heart rates. Specifically the pacemaking properties of the INE can be enhanced by electric sympathetic stimulation of the elements of sympathetic branch of cardiac autonomic nervous system surrounding the myocytes of the INE.

Delivery of sub threshold high frequency about 20 Hz to about 400 Hz current can be used to stimulate the endogenous autonomic innervation surrounding the INE and enable acceleration of the physiological pacemaker in the INE. Further the pacemaking properties of the INE can be enhanced by electric stimulation of the elements of sympathetic branch of cardiac autonomic nervous system located within the myocardium of INE. Further description is included in Hucker et al. Automatic Control and Innervation of the Atrioventricular Junctional Pacemaker Heart Rhythm October 2007 4 10 pages 1326 1335 which in incorporated herein by reference in its entirely. The sub threshold approach can replace the need for traditional ventricular pacemaker leads. Sub threshold stimulation can be applied using the device designs described above or can be applied with other known electrode designs.

The INE can also be electrically modulated to treat several common conditions in clinical electrophysiology. For example stimulation of the INE can be used for treatment of several cardiac rhythm disorders of supraventricular origin including bradycardia and tachycardia and also as a site for implantable device pacing treatment of brady arrhythmias slow heart rate . Specifically bradycardia can be treated by using the INE as a pacing site as the site of a biological pacemaker that replaces the SA node by accelerating the intrinsic rate of the INE or as the site of autonomic stimulation to increase the intrinsic pacemaking rate of the INE.

The INE can also be used as a site for cell therapy delivery for reconstituting a biological pacemaker because of ease of access via the AV nodal vein intrinsic pacemaking properties and high degree of physiological autonomic control as compared with the atrial and ventricular myocardium. To deliver gene therapy or cell therapy to the INE a catheter such as the device designs described above can possess a fluid eluting tip to deliver a saline solution containing the gene or cell therapy. The catheter can further possess a retractable needle which can extend from the catheter tip to puncture tissue and a sensing electrode to locate the INE. Cell therapy can be delivered through both of the above described approaches the endocardial approach or the AV nodal vein approach.

The INE can also be used as a site for gene therapy. Specifically the inherent pacemaking properties of the INE can be increased by delivering genes via an electroporating catheter encoding the pacemaker channel isoforms HCN1 HCN2 HCN3 or HCN4 or elements of the autonomic nervous system.

Gene therapy can be delivered in the following manner. A fluid eluting catheter can be placed in the AV nodal vein and the site with the largest slow potential will be located. A second catheter will locate slow potentials on the endocardial surface of the INE. Sub threshold alternating current in the range of about 1.0 to about 50.0 microamps for example can be passed between the tip of each catheter to minimize the impedance between the two leads and localize the slow pathway. The fluid eluting needle of the venous catheter can extend to puncture the venous wall. Electroporating current can be passed between the two catheters and the saline solution containing the gene therapy will be released simultaneously. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in further embodiments the current of less than about 1 microamp or more than about 50 microamps can be used.

The INE can further be used for rate control during atrial tachyarrhythmias including atrial flutter and atrial fibrillation and AVNRT. For example a stimulation pulse or a series of pulses applied to the INE during AVNRT can terminate an arrhythmia without the need for radiofrequency ablation and the potential complications AV block that can occur with this procedure.

Stimulation of the autonomic innervation of the INE can be used as an effective treatment for ventricular rate control during atrial fibrillation such as because of the short refractory period of the INE. Parasympathetic stimulation of the INE can block excitation in the slow pathway thus filtering properties of the AV node can be enhanced because excitation of the ventricles will have to travel through the FP which has a longer refractory period. Pacing of the INE provides conduction via the slow pathway and the lower nodal bundle which has higher safety factor as compared to conduction via the FP and compact AV node. As a result pacing of the INE can provide safe rate control for atrial arrhythmias without the need of AV nodal ablation in patients with paroxysmal and chronic atrial tachyarrhythmias.

Common forms of AVNRT involve the INE as one pathway of the reentrant arrhythmia and can be treated by radiofrequency ablation lesions created on or near the INE. In another embodiment a stimulation pulse or a series of pulses applied to the INE during AVNRT can be used to terminate the arrhythmia without the need for radiofrequency ablation and the potential complications such as for example AV nodal block that can occur with this procedure. Each of the tachyarrhythmia therapies can be accomplished with the endocardial or venous approach to the INE using the catheter designs described above.

The embodiments above are intended to be illustrative and not limiting. Additional embodiments are within the claims. In addition although the present invention has been described with reference to particular embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that changes can be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Any incorporation by reference of documents above is limited such that no subject matter is incorporated that is contrary to the explicit disclosure herein.

Address for correspondence Igor R. Efimov Department of Biomedical Engineering Washington University in St. Louis Mo. 63130. This work was supported by American Heart Association grant in aid 0750031Z Gap junction expression has been studied in the atrioventricular junction AVJ of many species however their distribution in the human AVJ is unknown. The AVJ expression of the gap junction protein connexin 43 Cx43 is species dependent therefore we investigated its distribution in the human AVJ. Methods Using Masson trichrome histology we reconstructed the AVJ of 3 normal human hearts and one with dilated cardiomyopathy in 3D. Cx43 was immunolabeled with vimentin and .alpha. actinin to determine the cellular origin of Cx43 and was quantified in the following structures interatrial septum IAS His bundle compact node CN lower nodal bundle LNB leftward and rightward nodal extensions LE and RE and inferior endocardial and left sided transitional cells. Results Histology revealed two nodal extensions in 3 4 hearts. Cx43 was found in the myocytes but not fibroblasts of the AVJ. LE and CN Cx43 was lower than the IAS P

Detailed investigations of the atrioventricular junction AVJ in many animal models have demonstrated the enormous complexity of this structure in terms of cell and tissue morphology functional characteristics and protein distribution. While many histological studies have investigated the human AVJ and clinical electrophysiological studies have provided a substantial amount of information regarding AVJ function in vivo the number of molecular investigations of the human AVJ is very limited because of the inherent difficulty of procuring human tissue in a timely fashion Davis et al. 1995 . Nevertheless such studies are vitally necessary to the basic understanding of clinically relevant phenomena such as atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia AVNRT and AV block and to increase the understanding of variables such as age which are difficult to address in animal models. In addition interspecies differences in protein expression patterns can limit the extrapolation of animal data to the human Coppen and Severs 2002 Coppen et al. 2003 . Therefore human molecular studies are crucial because expression patterns in the human AVJ should become the framework in which studies from animal models are interpreted.

Several tissue types are involved in atrial His conduction and the term AVJ is used in this study to encompass them all Billette 2002 . Proximally the specialized conduction tissue of the AVJ consists of the inferior nodal extensions which extend from near the coronary sinus CS ostium to the node itself Inoue and Becker 1998 . Previously these extensions were termed posterior rather than inferior Inoue and Becker 1998 Dobrzynski et al. 2003 however when the heart is oriented anatomically these extensions actually run inferior to the CN and therefore we use the term inferior nodal extension in this study Cosio et al. 1999 . The inferior nodal extensions merge to become the AV node AVN which then penetrates the central fibrous body to become the His bundle Tawara 1906 . Connecting the AVN and nodal extensions to the surrounding atrial tissue are transitional cells that can be divided into three groups based on their location relative to the AVN endocardial transitional cells contact the AVN on its endocardial aspect left sided transitional cells approach the AVN from the left side of the interatrial septum IAS and inferior transitional cells approach the AVN near the coronary sinus ostium Anderson and Ho 2002 Anderson and Ho 2000 .

To accommodate its complex physiological role the AVJ has developed very heterogeneous gap junction expression with more types of gap junctional proteins expressed in the AVJ than anywhere else in the heart. Specifically four cardiac connexins have been described to date Cx43 Cx40 Cx45 and Cx30.2 31.9 and each of these proteins has been found in animal studies of the AVJ Boyett et al. 2006 . Cx43 and Cx40 are both associated with rapidly conducting cardiac tissues with Cx40 having a higher conductance than Cx43 and Cx45 and Cx30.2 31.9 are associated with slowly conducting tissues Boyett et al. 2006 . The expression patterns of these connexins in the AVJ are very species dependent rat hearts do not express Cx43 or 40 in the AVJ however rabbits express both Coppen and Severs 2002 Dobrzynski et al. 2003 . Only one study has documented the expression of connexins in the human AVJ to our knowledge Davis et al. 1995 where they found that Cx43 Cx40 and Cx45 were all present yet this study did not survey where in the AVJ each connexin was expressed.

Traditionally connexins have been assumed to form gap junctions between two adjacent myocytes. However recent publications also suggest that functional gap junctions are formed between myocytes and fibroblasts Camelliti et al. 2005 possibly via Cx43 coupling Goldsmith et al. 2004 . In this study we investigated Cx43 expression throughout the various tissues of the AVJ as well as whether Cx43 forms gap junctions between myocytes and fibroblasts. We correlated Cx43 immunofluorescence with 3D reconstructions of the AVJ constructed from Masson trichrome histology showing that Cx43 expression pattern delineates domains of the AVJ not apparent with histology that may have functional consequences.

The use of human hearts for research was approved by the Institutional Review Boards at Washington University and the University of Minnesota. Three specimens were provided by the Upper Midwest Organ Procurement Organization LifeSource St. Paul Minn. they also provided pre approval for this protocol these hearts were deemed non viable for transplantation. An additional specimen was a transplant recipient s explanted heart with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy DCM . The clinical data that is known regarding each specimen is shown in Table 1 of . These specimens were placed in frozen tissue embedding media Histo Prep. Fisher Scientific Fair Lawn N.J. and stored in a 80 C. freezer at the University of Minnesota before being shipped on dry ice to Washington University. Subsequently they were thawed at 4 C. before dissection. The triangle of Koch was exposed and an approximately 4.times.4 cm.sup.2 area of tissue at the apex of the triangle of Koch was dissected and re frozen at 80 C. The tissue blocks were cryosectioned at 16 m mounted on Superfrost Plus glass slides Fisher Scientific and stored at 80 C. until use. The location of each tissue section was documented throughout the sectioning process.

To create a 3D reconstruction of the AV junction tissue sections approximately 0.5 1.0 mm apart were stained with Masson trichrome. Histology sections were photographed with a 2.times. lens and a mosaic image of the tissue section was created. The image of each section was imported into Rhinoceros NURBS modeling for Windows version 3.0 Robert McNeel Associates and outlined to separate areas of fat as well as any imbedded strands of transitional cells IAS transitional cells ventricular septum connective tissue central fibrous body mitral and tricuspid valves conduction system His bundle compact AV node lower nodal bundle rightward and leftward inferior nodal extensions and major arteries and veins . Transitional cells were incorporated into the areas of the IAS or the fatty tissue surrounding the conduction system because the transitional cell boundary was difficult to define and quite irregular which made 3D reconstruction of transitional cells confusing and unclear. However in arrows point to transitional cells that lie within the fatty tissue and arrowheads point to transitional cells from the left atrium. The set of derived outlines from each section was rotated and aligned to those of the previous section. The correct 3D placement of each section was determined by using distances recorded during tissue cryo sectioning. shows the resultant correctly aligned and positioned outlines for the conduction system in the explanted heart from the patient with DCM. For each tissue type the set of outlines was lofted to create a mesh approximating the 3D volume which was then rendered to create a solid 3D volume .

For immunohistochemistry tissue sections were first fixed permeabilized and blocked by immersion in 3.7 formaldehyde for 5 minutes 0.15 Triton for 15 minutes and 10 normal horse serum for 60 minutes. Using immunohistochemistry we visualized three different proteins the gap junctional protein Cx43 the myocyte marker actinin which is expressed in the sarcomeres of myocytes and the intermediate filament protein vimentin which is expressed in the cytoskeletal intermediate filaments of fibroblasts and endothelial cells Camelliti et al. 2005 . In cardiac tissue endothelial cells are present in blood vessels whereas fibroblasts are present throughout the myocardial tissue. Therefore fibroblasts can be differentiated from endothelial cells based on location in the tissue and we used this marker to visualize fibroblasts in the myocardium. The following primary antibodies were applied overnight at 4.degree. C. rabbit anti Cx43 Sigma 1 1000 mouse anti .alpha. actinin sarcomere specific Sigma 1 1600 and guinea pig anti vimentin Progen 1 800 . The following secondary antibodies were applied for 2 hours at room temperature Alexa Fluor 555 goat anti rabbit IgG Molecular Probes 1 800 Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti mouse IgG.sub.1 Molecular Probes 1 800 and Alexa Fluor 647 goat anti guinea pig IgG Molecular Probes 1 800 . Immunofluorescent studies in human cardiac tissue can be quite difficult due to autofluorescence Billinton and Knight 2001 therefore sections were immersed in a 1 Sudan Black Sigma solution for 10 minutes Schnell et al. 1999 to reduce autofluorescence originating from lipofuscin particles found in human tissue. Tissue sections were subsequently mounted with ProLong Gold antifade reagent with DAPI Invitrogen .

Confocal immunohistochemical images were collected using a 40 lens and individual images were pieced together to create a mosaic image at three different planes within the AVJ. The first plane was a section through the inferior nodal extensions the second plane was through the compact AV node CN and the third plane was through the His bundle. In the first plane Cx43 was quantified in the leftward inferior nodal extension rightward extension inferior transitional cells and the IAS. In the second plane Cx43 was quantified in the CN lower nodal bundle LNB endocardial transitional cells left atrial transitional cells and the IAS. Finally in the third plane Cx43 was quantified in the His bundle and the interatrial septum IAS . Connexin densities within the various regions of the tissue were determined using a custom program MATLAB Mathworks Natick Mass. . A full description of the algorithm has been published previously Hucker et al. 2007a and is provided in the online data supplement. Briefly the mosaic image of the area of interest was thresholded twice to produce two black and white images of the Cx43 channel. The first threshold selected positive Cx43 staining in the image. The second threshold was much lower than the first and selected any tissue in the image. The area of each was corrected and the Cx43 area was divided by the tissue area to give a percentage of the tissue area that corresponded to Cx43 staining see online data supplement .

Colocalization plots were used to determine which cell types expressed Cx43. In a three channel three dimensional confocal Z stack each voxel has three intensity values one each for red green and blue staining A colocalization plot generated with Volocity Improvision Inc. Lexington Mass. displays two of these intensity values as a function of each other. By definition two proteins are highly colocalized in a particular volume when fluorescence intensities corresponding to these two proteins are high in the voxel corresponding to this volume. Therefore if two proteins are colocalized in many voxels the colocalization plot will contain a significant diagonal distribution. Voxels with the highest degree of colocalization will be displayed in the upper right quadrant. In contrast if the two proteins are not colocalized the colocalization plot shows voxel values near each axis with no diagonal elements present.

Cx43 quantification data are represented as mean standard deviation. Cx43 levels were compared using the non parametric Kruskal Wallis test MATLAB . A value of p

For one representative AVJ preparation Masson trichrome histology Cx43 immunofluorescence and the 3D reconstruction of the preparation is shown in . Inferiorly the AVN begins as the inferior nodal extensions which vary both in length and number Inoue and Becker 1998 . In three of the four hearts in this study there were two inferior nodal extensions while the other had only one. The preparation shown in possessed both a leftward and rightward extension the leftward extension begins near the left side of the IAS whereas the rightward extension lies adjacent to the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve . While the rightward extension expressed Cx43 there was virtually no Cx43 present in the leftward extension . In this preparation the rightward extension was located in close proximity to layers of inferior transitional cells which also expressed Cx43 . Transitional cells were found closely related to the rightward extension in 3 of 4 preparations. Additionally large veins were observed in close proximity to the rightward extension in each preparation as seen in . Between the leftward extension and the rightward extension there was a variable amount of Cx43 negative tissue which was continuous with the compact AVN superiorly . The amount of this tissue varied between preparations. Throughout it is clear that fibroblasts are interspersed between the myocytes of the rightward and leftward extensions as shown with vimentin staining blue . The 3D reconstruction of this preparation is shown in split open at the plane shown in to display the rightward and leftward extensions within the tissue.

The AVN can be divided into the compact node CN and the lower nodal bundle LNB based on functional and morphological characteristics Anderson et al. 1974 Billette 2002 . The CN is composed of small densely packed irregularly shaped cells whereas the LNB cells are larger and oriented parallel to each other. We observed a consistent heterogeneity in Cx43 expression between these two structures. The LNB which occupies the anterior portion of the AVN closest to the ventricle expressed more Cx43 than the posterior CN region closest to the atrium C and G . Inferiorly the CN was continuous with the leftward extension and the LNB was continuous with the rightward extension. Therefore the CN and leftward extension were outlined as one continuous structure in the reconstruction. Likewise the rightward extension and LNB were reconstructed as a single volume . Both sets of transitional cells that are visible in this section the left sided and the endocardial transitional cells expressed high levels of Cx43 similar to the IAS and E . As can be seen in an extensive network of fibroblasts was present around the myocytes of the conduction system in the entire AVN region F and G .

Cx43 was heterogeneously expressed throughout the His bundle as seen in . In this example a higher level of Cx43 expression is seen on the endocardial and ventricular aspects of the His bundle. However this pattern was not consistent in other preparations Cx43 was highly expressed on the atrial border of the His bundle. While Tawara s transition point between the His bundle and the AVN is convenient morphologically we did not observe an abrupt change in Cx43 expression at the beginning of the His bundle as defined by Tawara. Instead Cx43 expression gradually changed from the CN LNB pattern seen in the AVN to the pattern shown in the His bundle. As can be seen in a large number of fibroblasts are also present in the His bundle surrounding most of the His bundle myocytes.

Even though an extensive network of fibroblasts was present throughout the AVJ as seen in we found that the overwhelming majority of Cx43 was solely expressed within the myocytes with exceedingly few examples of Cx43 within fibroblasts or between myocytes and fibroblasts. displays maximum projection images of two representative high resolution 3D confocal image stacks where actinin vimentin and Cx43 were labeled. Using the method of colocalization plots we determined the cellular origin of Cx43 in each voxel. In panels A C data recorded from the LNB are displayed. The maximum projection image illustrates that fibroblasts surround the myocytes however Cx43 is expressed solely within and between the myocytes. In panel B a colocalization plot illustrates the red and green intensity values of each voxel within the volume imaged. The voxels which had high green intensities i.e. specific Cx43 staining were spread across the values of the actinin axis indicating that Cx43 staining was present in voxels which also expressed actinin. In panel C a colocalization plot of the blue and green intensity values from the same volume is displayed. In this plot the voxels of specific Cx43 staining are clustered along the Cx43 axis indicating that specific staining of Cx43 only occurred in voxels with no blue intensity. In fact of the 14 490 voxels in this particular volume that were in the upper half of Cx43 intensity only 1 voxel was also in the upper half of vimentin intensity. illustrates the same pattern of Cx43 expression in the CN. In the CN there is much less Cx43 than in the LNB however the colocalization plots in panel E and F indicate that whatever Cx43 is expressed in the CN is within or between myocytes with very few voxels of specific Cx43 staining having any blue intensity. In this volume 34 of the 953 voxels in the upper half of Cx43 staining were also in the upper half of vimentin staining however these voxels were not clustered together in one location. Instead they appeared as one or two voxels that were independent of each other. Thus we conclude that there very little evidence for gap junction formation between myocytes and fibroblasts in the human AVJ.

Cx43 was quantified throughout the various tissue types in the AVJ. For comparison Cx43 was also quantified in the IAS in each tissue section. Cx43 expression was relatively constant between the three different groups of transitional cells and the IAS as shown in . When expressed as a percentage of IAS Cx43 Cx43 in the endocardial transitional cells was 112 32 78 26 in the left sided transitional cells and 89 35 in the inferior transitional cells P NS for each .

When Cx43 was quantified in the conduction system of each preparation a distinct pattern emerged as shown in the bar graph in . The rightward extension LNB and His bundle all expressed Cx43 similarly to each other ratio to the IAS was 44 36 50 26 and 48 12 respectively . While the average Cx43 expression in each of these structures was not statistically different from the IAS due to the small number of hearts in this study it is clear that the Cx43 expression was consistent between them. However Cx43 expression in the leftward extension and the CN were both statistically lower than in the IAS 5 4 and 12 11 of the IAS signal respectively P

The 3D reconstructions of the conduction system from each heart consisting of the leftward and rightward extensions CN LNB and His bundle is shown in two views in . Each panel shows the reconstruction of the conduction system of one heart. The left view of each panel demonstrates the orientation of the conduction system within the triangle of Koch blood vessels located in close proximity to the conduction system and the CFB which encases the His bundle. The right view shows the conduction system by itself and the three planes where Cx43 expression was quantified. The His bundle of each preparation is shown in green. The LNB and rightward extension are depicted as a continuous structure in yellow. The leftward extension and CN are shown as a continuous structure in cyan. Finally layers of inferior transitional cells which were closely related to the rightward extension are shown in orange. These areas of close apposition between transitional cells and the rightward extension may be the interface between the atrial myocardium and the nodal extension. In two preparations and B the rightward extension was longer than the leftward extension. As seen in one preparation had a rightward but no leftward extension and finally in the heart with DCM panel D the leftward extension was actually slightly longer than the rightward extension.

In the DCM heart the IAS was much thicker than in the other three preparations and in this heart the leftward extension protrudes prominently towards the left atrial side of the IAS in the dorsal ventral direction . Therefore an additional view of the conduction system which is rotated 90 from the endocardial view shown in panels A C is shown in panel D. The conduction system in the DCM heart was thicker than those of the normal hearts as can be seen in . Animations of the reconstruction of the DCM heart and the normal heart in panel A are provided in the online data supplement.

In this study we have reconstructed the 3D anatomy of the conduction system in the human AVJ and mapped the distribution and cellular origin of Cx43. Our results indicate that Cx43 is distributed heterogeneously in the myocytes of the region the rightward extension LNB and His bundle express similar levels of Cx43 approximately half the level of IAS expression while the leftward extension and the CN express very little Cx43 as compared to the IAS.

Inoue and Becker described a series of 21 hearts where they found that 7 21 33 had only a rightward but no leftward extension 13 21 62 had a rightward extension that was longer than the left and 1 21 5 that had only a leftward extension Inoue and Becker 1998 . Our sample of hearts closely mimics those described by Inoue and Becker 2 4 50 had a longer rightward extension than leftward and 1 4 25 had only a rightward extension. Interestingly in the DCM heart of our study the leftward extension was actually longer than the rightward extension which is a variant that Inoue and Becker did not observe. Whether this variation is simply rare and did not surface in their investigations or whether it is due to the pathologic state of this sample can not be determined from our study. It is certainly possible that the long leftward extension is related to the DCM because the overall morphology of the conduction system was different in this heart and it was larger than the other hearts in this study . The thickness of the IAS was also much greater in this heart than in the other hearts data supplement movie and therefore the leftward extension may have elongated preferentially in this heart as the myocardium remodeled because it was oriented in the dorsal ventral direction. We also found that the Cx43 expression in this heart was higher than the normal hearts however a previous study demonstrated that left ventricular Cx43 expression is reduced in patients with DCM Dupont et al. 2001 . Therefore future studies will be necessary to determine the effect of various cardiomyopathies on the AVJ.

In the study of Inoue and Becker 1998 which was entirely based upon histological investigations no mention of the LNB was made. In part this may be due to the fact that the LNB of the human is difficult to recognize with histology alone. In this study we found that with the additional use of the Cx43 marker we could consistently visualize the LNB which indicates that morphologically similar cells and structures can possess very different molecular characteristics. Future studies will be necessary to determine if other connexin isoforms delineate similar domains throughout the human AVJ.

The rabbit AVJ is often used as an experimental model of the human AVJ. In the rabbit there is only one nodal extension which lies below the right atrial endocardium in the myocardial isthmus between the coronary sinus and tricuspid valve very similar to the position of the human rightward extension. In this study Cx43 quantification revealed two axes of Cx43 expression in the human AVJ the rightward extension LNB and the His bundle all express Cx43 similarly to each other and at higher levels than the CN and leftward extension. A previous study reported that the rabbit also has two domains of Cx43 expression. Ko et al found that the His bundle lower nodal cells and the nodal extension all express Cx43 similarly and that the CN does not express detectable Cx43 Ko et al. 2004 . Therefore it is consistent between the human and the rabbit that the rightward extension LNB is connected to the His bundle differently than the leftward extension CN. The similarity between the data in this study and rabbit investigations provides further evidence that the rabbit is an appropriate model of the human cardiac conduction system Rothenberg and Efimov 2006 .

Using the method of colocalization plots we have concluded that the interaction between fibroblasts and myocytes via Cx43 is minimal if any in the human AVJ . The colocalization technique is useful to tease out the location of immunofluorescent signals in 3D space. It is also quantitative it displays the values of every voxel within a stack of images which removes any selection bias from the results. However this technique assumes that if fibroblasts express Cx43 the signal would be colocalized with vimentin. This assumption may or may not be correct because vimentin is a cytosolic protein and Cx43 if expressed and functional would be membrane bound. However at the optical resolution used in this study the pixel resolution of our confocal images is 240 nm in X and Y 125 125 m field of view with 512 512 pixels and 500 nm in Z which is quite large with respect to the separation of proteins in a cell. It seems reasonable that vimentin fibers would be expressed within 240 nm of the cell membrane therefore we feel that our assumption is valid. Also the same restrictions on the physical overlap of actinin and Cx43 would apply because sarcomere specific actinin would be expressed in the cytosol of myocytes yet the colocalization plot indicates that there is colocalization between actinin and Cx43.

Dual pathway electrophysiology is one of the pathological hallmarks of the human AVJ providing the substrate for reentrant arrhythmias such as AV nodal reentrant tachycardia AVNRT Moe et al. 1956 . Typically the AVJ is described as having two functional pathways a slow and a fast pathway which give rise to AVNRT. Anatomically the substrate for the slow pathway involves the isthmus of myocardium between the coronary sinus and the tricuspid valve Nikolski et al. 2003 which is ablated to treat AVNRT and transitional cells act as the fast pathway. There is evidence that the rightward extension is the substrate of the slow pathway Inoue et al. 1999 Medkour et al. 1998 however it is debated whether the rightward extension the inferior transitional cells which overlay this extension or a combination of both is the true substrate of the slow pathway McGuire 2000 . If the rightward extension is indeed a substrate of the slow pathway it is intriguing that our results indicate that the rightward extension contains a relatively large amount of Cx43 because Cx43 expression would imply fast conduction. However conduction velocity is not solely dependent upon Cx43 expression Cx40 Cx45 possibly Cx30.2 31.9 Kreuzberg et al. 2006 as well as ion channel expression will certainly affect conduction velocity in the nodal extensions. In reality it may not be conduction time within the inferior nodal extension that is responsible for the slow nature of the slow pathway but it may be the interface between the inferior transitional cells and the inferior nodal extension that is responsible for slow conduction Hucker et al. 2007b Nikolski et al. 2003 . However future studies correlating functional properties of the nodal extensions with the distribution of Cx40 Cx45 Cx30.2 31.9 as well as ion channel distributions will be necessary to fully understand the role of the nodal extensions in AVNRT.

We found that the probable substrate of the fast pathway the transitional cell layers around the CN expressed Cx43 at similar levels to the atrial septum which would functionally support fast conduction within these cell layers. Both structurally and functionally these cells are intermediate between the atrial myocardium and the AVN in terms of action potential characteristics and cell morphology Anderson and Ho 2002 Billette 1987 . However in terms of Cx43 expression shows that instead of a smooth transition in Cx43 at the interface of the transitional cells and the CN there is a dramatic decrease in Cx43 expression from the transitional cells to the CN which may slow action potential propagation into the CN Shaw and Rudy 1997 .

The role of the leftward extension compact nodal structure is less clear. Because it expresses little Cx43 this structure would presumably conduct slowly and may provide a slowly conducting pathway in cases of AVNRT where more than one slow pathway is observed or in intranodal reentry. Consistent with this hypothesis is the correlation between the fact that AVNRT involving multiple pathways is less common than AVNRT involving one slow pathway and the leftward extension is inconsistently expressed in humans Inoue and Becker 1998 . The leftward extension could also provide a slowly conducting pathway between the left atrial side of the LAS and the nodal tissue Katritsis and Becker 2007 . Finally inferior transitional cells come into close proximity to the leftward extension in some cases and therefore a reentry circuit may possibly be sustained between the two nodal extensions and the inferior transitional cells.

The continuous expression of Cx43 from the rightward INE to the LNB and the His bundle implies that these structures form one continuous structure and that the rightward extension is connected to the His bundle differently than the leftward extension. In the rabbit functional studies in our lab and others have indicated that excitation spreading from the inferior nodal extension excites the His bundle differently than excitation spreading from the fast pathway Hucker et al. 2007b Zhang et al. 2001 and specifically that the AV delay can be avoided by pacing near the inferior nodal extension Hucker et al. 2007b . Our data in this study suggest that the same may be true in the human with excitation in the rightward extension spreading via the LNB to a specific Cx43 positive domain of the His bundle bypassing the compact AV node.

The possibility of unique coupling between the rightward extension and the His bundle opens the possibility of exploiting this connection to achieve His bundle excitation without engaging the compact AV node. Recent pacing strategies have explored alternative pacing sites such as direct His bundle pacing to achieve synchronized ventricular contraction Laske et al. 2006 Deshmukh and Romanyshyn 2004 Zanon et al. 2006 . Attempting to pace the rightward extension rather than the His bundle itself would expand the area at the base of the right atrium where a pacing lead could be implanted and potentially lower pacing thresholds because the rightward extension is not encased in fibrous tissue like the His bundle.

Our 3D reconstruction of the human AVJ indicated that the tissue surrounding the conduction system is richly vascularized. The veins surrounding the AVJ are large with diameters ranging from 0.29 0.56 mm in the 4 AVJs we reconstructed. Because the coronary sinus is located very close to the AVJ the veins shown in the 3D reconstructions of either join the coronary sinus very near its os or drain into the right atrium directly. While CS os access can be challenging in some patients Hill et al. 2006 it may soon be possible to navigate these veins with catheters for ablations pacing or localized pharmacologic delivery e.g. to achieve AVN modulation during atrial fibrillation without the tissue damage induced by an active lead screwed into the myocardium Sigg et al. 2006 .

Our study presents for the first time the mapping of Cx43 in the human AVJ. We have found that the conduction system in the human AVJ expresses two domains with respect to Cx43 density the rightward extension LNB and His bundle all express Cx43 similarly to each other while the leftward extension and the CN possess very little Cx43. These two separate domains may therefore possess unique conduction properties that contribute to heterogeneous conduction and supraventricular arrhythmias arising from the AVJ.

Our study was limited to a single connexin isoform Cx43. However other isoforms are known to be expressed in the AVJ of mammalian species including Cx45 Cx40 and Cx31.9 Cx30.2. Unfortunately we were unable to obtain antibodies to these connexins which would provide quantifiable signals in the human AVJ. Additionally our study was based on immunohistochemistry and therefore the detection of Cx43 was limited by the resolution of this technique. It is certainly possible that gap junctions composed of Cx43 were small enough to escape detection with immunofluorescence.

Our study was conducted in human hearts which were not previously characterized in the electrophysiology lab.

Tissue sections were taken from three different locations in the triangle of Koch the His bundle the compact AV nodal region and the inferior nodal extensions. A mosaic image was created of the interatrial septum IAS and the tissue of the conduction system. A representative image of Cx43 staining is shown in data supplement . For each region of interest a three step algorithm determined the area of each image corresponding to Cx43 staining. First the image was thresholded data supplement . The threshold at which the number of pixels fell below approximately 0.2 of the total number of pixels in the image was determined from the histogram of the image intensity values. This threshold was empirically determined to reproducibly select areas of Cx43 staining Once the mosaic image was thresholded holes within areas above threshold were filled and any area above threshold consisting of less than 3.mu.m.sup.2 was discarded as noise . The amount of total tissue within each image was determined by thresholding the image at an intensity value of 10 for 8 bit images and then filling small holes . Connexin density was calculated for each image as the Cx43 area divided by the tissue area. Connexin density of the conduction system was compared to the density in the interatrial septum. All images from the same preparation were photographed using identical settings and the same thresholds were used for atrial images and conduction system images from the same preparations.

Data Supplement Cx43 Quantification. A Photograph of Cx43 staining B Image thresholded to select Cx43 staining C The same image thresholded to select any tissue within the image. D The thresholded image in B with the small areas above threshold removed and any black holes completely surrounded by white pixels filled. Connexin density was computed as density Cx43 area tissue area 100.

Data Supplement Movie 1 The 3D reconstruction of a normal heart which begins with a right endocardial view. Ventricular septum is shown in red connective tissue in blue atrial tissue is pink and fat is white. As the movie plays the tissue components surrounding the conduction system are removed to reveal the conduction system. The His bundle is shown in green the compact AVN and leftward extension are cyan and the lower nodal bundle and rightward extension are yellow. Veins closely associated with the conduction system are shown in purple and the AVN artery is shown in maroon.

Data Supplement Movie 2 The 3D reconstruction of the DCM heart which begins with a right endocardial view. Ventricular septum is shown in red connective tissue in blue atrial tissue is pink and fat is white. As the movie plays the tissue components surrounding the conduction system are removed to reveal the conduction system. The His bundle is shown in green the compact AVN and leftward extension are cyan and the lower nodal bundle and rightward extension are yellow. Inferior transitional cells closely related to the rightward extension are orange. Veins closely associated with the conduction system are shown in purple and the AVN artery is shown in maroon. Notice that the leftward extension of this heart approaches the left side of the interatrial septum.

