---

title: Phenylsulfoxyoxazole compound inhibitors of urea transporters
abstract: Provided herein are small molecule compounds that alter the transport activity of solute transporters, particularly urea transporters. The compounds described herein belong to the phenylsulfoxyoxazole, phenylsulfoxyimidazole, phenylsulfoxythiazole class of compounds. The compounds described herein are useful for increasing solute clearance in states of fluid overload and for treating cardiovascular, renal, and metabolic diseases, disorders, and conditions. Methods for identifying and using these agents that inhibit urea transporters are described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08394788&OS=08394788&RS=08394788
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08394788
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071116
---
This application is a U.S. national stage application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Patent Application PCT US2007 085016 accorded an international filing date of Nov. 16 2007 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 859 800 filed Nov. 16 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 859 665 filed Nov. 16 2006 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DK35124 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

Agents that alter the transport activity of small neutrally charged solutes by solute transporters are needed as therapeutic agents for increasing solute clearance in states of fluid overload and for treating diseases and conditions such as hypertension. Methods for identifying and using agents that inhibit solute transporters such as urea transporters are described herein.

Urea is generated as the major end product of hepatic nitrogen metabolism and is excreted primarily by the kidney. Urea and sodium chloride are the major solutes in the hyperosmolar renal medulla. In the antidiuretic kidney urea is greatly concentrated with respect to plasma up to 100 times in humans and 250 times in rodents by countercurrent multiplication and exchange mechanisms Bankir et al. 6 pages 637 679 Brenner B M ed. WB Saunders Company Philadelphia Pa. 2000 . Of central importance to these mechanisms is intrarenal urea recycling which requires facilitated urea transport by molecular urea transporters UTs . UTs are comprised of two major subfamilies encoded by different genes UT A and UT B see e.g. Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Shayakul et al. 447 603 609 2004 Yang et al. 273 9369 72 1998 . In kidney a single UT B isoform is expressed in vasa recta while several splice variant UT A type transporters are expressed in kidney tubule epithelia see e.g. Sands 13 525 32 2004 .

Phenotype analysis of mice separately lacking vasa recta UT B or inner medullary collecting duct UT A1 3 implicated UT involvement in the formation of concentrated urine and in renal urea clearance see e.g. Yang et al. 277 10633 37 2002 Fenton et al. 101 7469 74 2004 Fenton et al. 16 1583 92 2005 . The UT B knock out mice that were generated manifested a urea selective urinary concentrating defect associated with urinary hypoosmolality and increased renal urea clearance Yang et al. supra . UT B is also expressed outside of the kidney most notably and in highest abundance in red blood cell RBC membranes. Loss of function human UT B mutations result in greatly reduced urea permeability in RBC and a mild urinary concentrating defect Sands et al. 2 1689 96 1992 Lucien et al. 273 12973 80 1998 .

Diuretics are administered widely in humans to increase renal salt and water clearance in a variety of conditions that are associated with total body fluid overload such as congestive heart failure and cirrhosis as well in normovolemic states such as hypertension and syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone SIADH . Most diuretics are inhibitors of salt absorption by kidney tubules such as a furosemide block of Na K 2Clco transport in the thick ascending limb of Henle and a thiazide block of Na Clco transport in the distal tubule. Recently a new type of diuretic called an aquaretic has been developed to increase renal water clearance in hyponatremia associated with fluid overload or SIADH see e.g. Goldsmith 95 14B 23B 2005 Miller 54 345 53 2006 . Vasopressin 2 receptor V2R antagonist aquaretics have been approved for clinical use in some countries though not yet in the United States and aquaporin inhibitor aquaretics are under development.

Functional studies in knock out mice indicate a critical role for urea transporters UTs in the urinary concentrating mechanism and in renal urea clearance. However potent and specific urea transport blockers have not been available. Accordingly a third type of diuretic is needed one that targets renal urea clearance mechanisms. Because urea is of at least equal importance to NaCl in the renal countercurrent mechanism for urinary concentration see e.g. Bankir et al. supra Masilamani et al. 6 Brenner ed. Philadelphia Pa. WB Saunders Company pages 595 35 2000 such diuretics are needed for increasing solute clearance in states of fluid overload hypertension and may also be useful in prolonging dialysis free survival in chronic renal insufficiency. A need also exists for methods for rapid screening of compounds to identify potential urea transporter inhibitors and other compounds that effectively increase renal water and solute clearance for subjects who are exhibiting a water retaining state.

Briefly stated the present invention is directed to compounds compositions and methods for treatment of one or more diseases associated with aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane by a cell transporter. Such methods include administration to a subject or biological source as provided herein such as a human or other warm blooded animal in need thereof an effective amount of at least one compound described herein. In particular described herein are inhibitors of urea transporters. In one embodiment a composition is provided comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a compound having a structure of formula I . In other specific embodiments compositions are provided comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a compound having any one of the substructures of formulae Ia Ij as described in detail herein.

In a more specific embodiment of structure I X is O and the compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug or stereoisomer thereof has substituents as described in greater detail herein.

In another more specific embodiment of structure I X is NH and the compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug or stereoisomer thereof has substituents as described in greater detail herein.

In yet another more specific embodiment of structure I X is S and the compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug or stereoisomer thereof has substituents as described in greater detail herein.

The phenylsulfoxyoxazole also spelled phenylsulfoxyoxozole phenylsulfoxyimidazole and phenylsulfoxythiozole compounds having the structure I and substructures including substructures of formulae Ia Ij described herein may be used to alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner transport activity of urea by at least one urea transporter. In particular embodiments the transporter activity of a urea transporter is inhibited thus the compounds are capable of preventing blocking or decreasing transport of urea across a cell membrane. In one embodiment at least one compound of structure I described herein inhibits transport of urea by a UT B transporter. In another embodiment at least one of structure I described herein inhibits the capability of a UT A transporter to transport urea. In particular embodiments the UT A transporter is at least one of UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5. In certain embodiments the cell is a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell or a testis cell. In a particular embodiment the cell is a renal cell. In another particular embodiment the cell is a red blood cell wherein the red blood cell comprises at least a UT B transporter.

In other embodiments methods are provided for inhibiting transport of urea across a cell membrane comprising contacting a cell with a composition that comprises at least one of the compounds of structure I including substructures of formulae Ia Ij described herein wherein the cell comprises at least one urea transporter. In one embodiment at least one compound described herein inhibits the capability of a UT B transporter to transport urea. In another embodiment the at least one phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidaozole or phenylsulfoxythiozole compound inhibits the capability of a UT A transporter to transport urea. In particular embodiments the UT A transporter is at least one of UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5. In certain embodiments the cell is a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell or a testis cell. In a particular embodiment the cell is a renal cell. In another particular embodiment the cell is a red blood cell and the red blood cell comprises at least a UT B transporter.

Also provided herein is a method of treating a disease or disorder or condition comprising administering to a subject in need thereof the composition comprising at least one phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole or phenylsulfoxythiozole compound described herein. The disease disorder or condition that may be treated includes a cardiovascular disease syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention and abnormal uresis. In certain particular embodiments the cardiovascular disease is congestive heart failure or hypertension.

In one embodiment a method is provided for treating a disease or disorder or condition associated with aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute in a subject by administering to the subject a composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and at least one compound of structure I or any substructure including substructures of formulae Ia Ij described above and in further detail herein. In a specific embodiment the disease disorder or condition is associated with a fluid retention imbalance in another certain specific embodiment the fluid retention imbalance comprises urea clearance insufficiency. In other particular embodiments the disease disorder or condition is selected from a cardiovascular disease syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention and abnormal uresis. In particular embodiments the cardiovascular disease disorder or condition is selected from hypertension and congestive heart failure. In a particular embodiment urea clearance insufficiency is renal urea clearance insufficiency. In one embodiment the neutrally charged solute is urea. In still another embodiment treating the disease disorder or condition comprises inhibiting the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea. In certain specific embodiments the at least one urea transporter is a UT B transporter. In other certain specific embodiments the at least one urea transporter is a UT A transporter selected from UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5.

In another embodiment a method of altering transport of urea across a cell membrane by a urea transporter in a cell is provided in which the method comprises contacting a the cell with b a composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and at least one compound of structure I or any substructure including substructures of formulae Ia Ij described above and in further detail herein. In certain specific embodiments the at least one urea transporter is a UT B transporter. In other certain specific embodiments the at least one urea transporter is a UT A transporter selected from UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5. In other specific embodiments the cell is a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell or a testis cell. In other specific embodiments the cell is a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell or a testis cell.

Also provided herein is a method of treating a disease disorder or condition comprising administering to a subject in need thereof the composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and at least one compound of structure I or any substructure including substructures of formulae Ia Ij described above and in further detail herein. The disease disorder or condition that may be treated includes a cardiovascular disease syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention and abnormal uresis. In a particular embodiment the cardiovascular disease is congestive heart failure or hypertension.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an agent includes a plurality of such agents and reference to the cell includes reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth. The term about when referring to a number or a numerical range means that the number of numerical range referred to is an approximation within experimental variability or statistically experimental error and thus the number or numerical range may vary between 1 and 15 of the stated number of numerical range. The term comprising and related terms such as comprise or comprises or having or including is not intended to exclude that in other certain embodiments for example an embodiment of any composition of matter composition method or process or the like described herein may consist of or consist essentially of the described features.

All U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are each incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

As stated above the present invention is directed to compounds compositions and methods for treatment of one or more diseases associated with or related to aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute across a cell membrane by a cell transporter. Aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute e.g. urea may be associated with a fluid retention imbalance such as urea clearance insufficiency. Potent specific small molecule inhibitors of urea transporters UTs are described herein that may be used to treat diseases disorders or conditions including but not limited to hypertension congestive heart failure syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention and abnormal uresis.

Previously the only available UT inhibitors included compounds that are nonspecific and exhibit moderate or low activity such as the non specific membrane intercalating agent phloretin exhibiting activity at 0.5 mM urea analogs such as thiourea methylurea and dimethylurea exhibiting activity at 50 100 mM see e.g. Mayrand et al. supra and chemically modified urea analogs exhibiting irreversible activity at 30 100 M Martial et al. 423 51 58 1993 . As described herein a high throughput screening method was developed and used to discover and characterize UT inhibitors that are drug like small molecules with high chemical diversity and high affinity. Potent UT inhibitors which include inhibitors of UT B were identified and belong to the phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole and phenylsulfoxythiazole classes of compounds.

As described in greater detail herein compositions used for treating a subject in need thereof also include physiologically or pharmaceutically acceptable i.e. suitable excipients that are appropriate for the delivery and stability of a compound. Small molecule compounds useful for treating such diseases and disorders belong to the phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole and phenylsulfoxythiazole classes of compounds and have the following structures arbitrarily designated as I and substructures.

Ris hydrogen hydroxyl halogen alkyl aryl arylalkyl arylalkylamino sulfhydryl thioalkyl aminyl amidyl heterocycle or heterocycloalkyl 

In certain embodiments of structure I each of R R R and Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen or halogen or Calkyl. In particular embodiments of structure I at least two of R R Rand Rare hydrogen. In yet other particular embodiments of structure I each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen. In other embodiments of structure I x is O or NH.

In further embodiments of structure I Ris substituted or unsubstituted alkyl sulfhydryl thioalkyl aminyl amidyl substituted or unsubstituted aryl heterocycloalkyl containing at least N or O arylalkylamino or a heterocycle having at least N or O. In yet other embodiments of structure I Ris aryl alkoxylaryl or a 5 7 membered heterocycle containing at least O or S. In certain embodiments of structure I Ris unsubstituted phenyl or is phenyl substituted with halogen Calkyl or Calkoxy at a position meta or para to the linking carbon that is the carbon through which Ris linked to the rest of the structure. In more particular embodiments of structure I Ris unsubstituted phenyl phenyl mono substituted with fluoro chloro methyl or methoxy at a position meta or para to the linking carbon thiophene 2 yl or furan 2 yl.

In further embodiments of structure I Ris hydrogen halogen or Calkyl. In more particular embodiments Ris hydrogen halogen or methyl. In other more particular embodiments X is O. In some embodiments of structure I Ris S CH C O NHRwherein n is 1 to 6 and Ris hydrogen straight chain Calkyl arylalkyl or heterocycloalkyl. In other embodiments of structure I Ris N R R wherein R and Rare the same or different and are selected from hydrogen Calkyl or arylalkyl. In yet further embodiments of structure I Ris a heterocycle having at least N S benzothioate or SRwherein Ris hydrogen or Calkyl. In certain other particular embodiments of structure I Ris S 2 mercaptoacetamidyl N benzylamino S N furan 2 yl methyl 2 mercaptoacetamidyl N dimethylamino N morpholino N hexahydro 1 H azepinyl S mercaptomethyl sulfhydryl or S benzothioate.

In certain embodiments of structure I when X is O Ris S 2 mercaptoacetamidyl and the compound has a substructure of the following formula Ia 

In a certain embodiment when the compound has substructure Ia Ris unsubstituted aryl mono substituted aryl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon or substituted or unsubstituted heterocycle. In some embodiments Ris unsubstituted phenyl mono substituted phenyl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon and is halogen Calkyl or Calkoxy or a five or six member heteroaryl having at least O or S. In certain particular embodiments Ris unsubstituted phenyl mono substituted phenyl with fluoro chloro or methyl at a position meta or para to the linking carbon thiophene 2 yl or furan 2 yl.

In some embodiments when the compound has substructure Ia Ris hydrogen halogen or Calkyl. In more particular embodiments Ris hydrogen halogen or methyl. In certain embodiments when the compound has substructure Ia each of R R R and Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen or halogen or Calkyl. In more specific embodiments each of R R R and Ris hydrogen.

In particular embodiments when the compound has substructure Ia the compound is 2 4 4 bromophenylsulfonyl 2 phenyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 2 phenyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 2 phenyl 4 tosyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 2 phenyl 4 phenylsulfonyl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 tosyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 2 4 fluorophenyl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 4 fluorophenylsulfonyl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 phenylsulfonyl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 4 bromophenylsulfonyl 2 p tolyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 2 p tolyl 4 tosyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 2 p tolyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 phenylsulfonyl 2 p tolyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 2 thiophen 2 yl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 2 thiophen 2 yl 4 tosyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 4 fluorophenylsulfonyl 2 thiophen 2 yl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 phenylsulfonyl 2 thiophen 2 yl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 2 furan 2 yl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide 2 4 4 bromophenylsulfonyl 2 furan 2 yl oxazol 5 ylthio acetamide or 2 2 furan 2 yl 4 tosyloxazol 5 ylthio acetamide.

In some embodiments of structure I when X is O Ris N benzylamino and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure of the following formula Ib 

In certain embodiments when the compound has substructure Ib Ris hydrogen halogen or methyl. In more particular embodiments Ris chloro. In other embodiments when the compound has substructure Ib Ris unsubstituted aryl mono substituted aryl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon or a substituted or unsubstituted heterocycle. In certain particular embodiments Ris a substituted or unsubstituted five or six member heteroaryl having at least O or S unsubstituted phenyl or mono substituted phenyl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon and is halogen Calkyl or Calkoxyalkyl. In more specific embodiments Ris phenyl substituted with fluoro.

In a specific embodiment when the compound has substructure Ib the compound is N benzyl 4 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 2 2 fluorophenyl oxazol 5 amine.

In further embodiments of structure I when X is O Ris S N furan 2 yl methyl 2 mercaptoacetamidyl and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure of the following formula Ic 

In certain embodiments when the compound has substructure Ic Ris hydrogen halogen or methyl. In more particular embodiments Ris bromo or chloro. In other embodiments when the compound has substructure Ic Ris unsubstituted aryl mono substituted aryl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon or a substituted or unsubstituted heterocyle. In certain particular embodiments Ris unsubstituted phenyl or mono substituted phenyl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon and the substituent is halogen Calkyl or Calkoxy. In more specific embodiments Ris unsubstituted phenyl.

In particular embodiments when the compound has substructure Ic the compound is 2 4 4 bromophenylsulfonyl 2 phenyloxazol 5 ylthio N furan 2 ylmethyl acetamide or 2 4 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 2 phenyloxazol 5 ylthio N furan 2 ylmethyl acetamide.

In certain embodiments of structure I when X is O Ris N dimethylamino and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure of the following formula Id 

In some embodiments when the compound has substructure Id Ris unsubstituted phenyl or mono substituted phenyl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon and the substituent is halogen Calkyl or Calkoxy. In more particular embodiments Ris phenyl substituted with chloro. In yet other more particular embodiments Ris hydrogen.

In a particular embodiment when the compound has substructure Id the compound is 2 2 chlorophenyl N N dimethyl 4 phenylsulfonyl oxazol 5 amine.

In further embodiments of structure I when X is O Ris N morpholino and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure of the following formula Ie 

In certain embodiments when the compound has substructure Ie Ris unsubstituted phenyl or mono substituted phenyl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon and the substituent is halogen Calkyl or Calkoxy. In more specific embodiments Ris phenyl substituted with chloro or fluoro. In yet other more specific embodiments Ris hydrogen or methyl.

In certain particular embodiments when the compound has substructure Ie the compound is 4 2 2 fluorophenyl 4 phenylsulfonyl oxazol 5 yl morpholine or 4 2 2 chlorophenyl 4 tosyloxazol 5 yl morpholine.

In some embodiments of structure I when X is O Ris N hexahydro 1 H azepinyl and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure of the following formula If 

In certain embodiments when the compound has substructure If Ris unsubstituted phenyl or mono substituted phenyl wherein the substituent is meta or para to the linking carbon and the substituent is halogen Calkyl or Calkoxy. In further embodiments when the compound has substructure If and the substituent is mono substituted phenyl the substituent is methyl methoxy or halogen. In more specific embodiments thereof the halogen is fluoro.

In some particular embodiments when the compound has substructure If the compound is 5 azepan 1 yl 2 2 methoxyphenyl 4 phenylsulfonyl oxazole 5 azepan 1 yl 4 phenylsulfonyl 2 p tolyloxazole or 5 azepan 1 yl 2 4 fluorophenyl 4 phenylsulfonyl oxazole.

In certain embodiments of structure I when X is O Ris S mercaptomethyl and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure the following formula Ig 

In some embodiments when the compound has substructure Ig Ris a five membered heteroaryl having at least O or S unsubstituted phenyl or mono substituted phenyl wherein the substituent is halogen or Calkyl at a position meta or para to the linking carbon. In more particular embodiments Ris furan 2 yl.

In a specific embodiment when the compound has substructure Ig the compound is 4 4 chlorophenylsulfonyl 2 furan 2 yl 5 methylthio oxazole.

In further embodiments of structure I Ris phenyl 2 fluorophen 2 yl 4 fluorophen 1 yl 2 chlorophen 1 yl 4 methylphen 1 yl 2 methyoxyphen 1 yl thiophene 2 yl or furan 2 yl. In yet other embodiments of structure I Ris hydrogen fluoro chloro bromo or methyl.

In certain embodiments of structure I X is NH. In more specific embodiments of structure I when X is NH Ris S mercaptomethyl and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure of the following formula Ih 

In a specific embodiment when the compound has substructure Ih the compound is 5 methylthio 4 phenylsulfonyl 2 p tolyl 1H imidazole.

In further embodiments of structure I when X is NH Ris sulfhydryl and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure of the following formula Ii 

In a particular embodiment when the compound has substructure Ii the compound is 2 phenyl 4 tosyl 1H imidazole 5 thiol.

In other embodiments of structure I when X is NH Ris S benzothioate and each of R R Rand Ris hydrogen and the compound has a substructure of the following formula Ij 

In a specific embodiment when the compound has substructure Ij the compound is S 2 phenyl 4 phenylsulfonyl 1H imidazol 5 yl benzothioate.

In certain particular embodiments of structure I when X is NH Ris S mercaptomethyl sulfhydryl or S benzothioate. In further particular embodiments of structure I when X is NH Ris phenyl or 4 methylphen 1 yl. In yet other particular embodiments of structure I when X is NH Ris hydrogen or methyl.

In specific embodiments the compounds of formula I and subgroups thereof described herein have the following structures.

Certain chemical groups named herein are preceded by a shorthand notation indicating the total number of carbon atoms that are to be found in the indicated chemical group. For example C Calkyl describes an alkyl group as defined below having a total of 1 to 6 carbon atoms and C Ccycloalkyl describes a cycloalkyl group as defined below having a total of 3 to 12 carbon atoms. The total number of carbons in the shorthand notation does not include carbons that may exist in substituents of the group described. In addition to the foregoing as used herein unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated.

 Alkyl means a straight chain or branched noncyclic or cyclic unsaturated or saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 12 carbon atoms while the terms lower alkyl and Calkyl have the same meaning as alkyl but contain from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl and the like while saturated branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl isopentyl and the like. Representative saturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl CHcyclopropyl CHcyclobutyl CHcyclopentyl CHcyclohexyl and the like unsaturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl and the like. Cyclic alkyls also referred to as homocyclic rings include di and poly homocyclic rings such as decalin and adamantyl. Unsaturated alkyls contain at least one double or triple bond between adjacent carbon atoms referred to as an alkenyl or alkynyl respectively . Representative straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl propylenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl and the like representative straight chain and branched alkynyls include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl and the like. It is understood that within the context of the current invention the term alkyl is taken to comprise unsubstituted alkyl and substituted alkyl as defined herein unless otherwise specified.

As used herein the term substituted in the context of alkyl aryl arylalkyl heterocycle and heterocycloalkyl means that at least one hydrogen atom of the alky aryl arylalkyl heterocycle or heterocycloalkyl moiety is replaced with a substituent. In the instance of an oxo substituent O two hydrogen atoms are replaced. A substituent as used within the context of this invention includes oxo halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkyl alkoxy thioalkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl heteroalkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocycloalkyl substituted heterocycloalkyl NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR NRS O R OR C O R C O OR C O NRR OCHC O NRR OC O NRR SH SR SOR S O NRR S O R SRC O NRR OS O Rand S O OR wherein Rand Rare the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl alkoxy aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl arylalkoxy heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocycloalkyl or substituted heterocycloalkyl.

Representative substituents include but are not limited to alkoxy i.e. alkyl O e.g. methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy pentoxy aryloxy e.g. phenoxy chlorophenoxy tolyloxy methoxyphenoxy benzyloxy alkyloxycarbonylphenoxy alkyloxycarbonyloxy acyloxyphenoxy acyloxy e.g. propionyloxy benzoyloxy acetoxy carbamoyloxy carboxy mercapto alkylthio acylthio arylthio e.g. phenylthio chlorophenylthio alkylphenylthio alkoxyphenylthio benzylthio alkyloxycarbonyl phenylthio aminyl e.g. amino mono and di C Calkanylamino methylphenylamino methylbenzylamino C Calkanylamido acylamino carbamamido ureido guanidino nitro and cyano. Moreover any substituent may have from 1 5 further substituents attached thereto.

 Arylalkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with an aryl moiety such as CH phenyl CH CH phenyl C CH CH phenyl and the like.

 Heteroaryl means an aromatic heterocycle ring of 5 to 10 members and having at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and containing at least 1 carbon atom including both mono and bicyclic ring systems. Representative heteroaryls are furyl benzofuranyl thiophenyl benzothiophenyl pyrrolyl indolyl isoindolyl azaindolyl pyridyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl oxazolyl isooxazolyl benzoxazolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl benzimidazolyl thiazolyl benzothiazolyl isothiazolyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl triazinyl cinnolinyl phthalazinyl and quinazolinyl.

 Heteroarylalkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with a heteroaryl moiety such as CHpyridinyl CHpyrimidinyl and the like.

 Heterocycle also referred to herein as a heterocyclic ring means a 4 to 7 membered monocyclic or 7 to 10 membered bicyclic heterocyclic ring which is either saturated unsaturated or aromatic and which contains from 1 to 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may be optionally quaternized including bicyclic rings in which any of the above heterocycles are fused to a benzene ring. The heterocycle may be attached via any heteroatom or carbon atom. Heterocycles include heteroaryls as defined herein. Thus in addition to the heteroaryls listed above heterocycles also include morpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl hydantoinyl valerolactamyl oxiranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydroprimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl and the like.

The term optionally substituted as used in the context of an optionally substituted heterocycle as well heteroaryl means that at least one hydrogen atom is replaced with a substituent. In the case of a keto substituent C O two hydrogen atoms are replaced. When substituted one or more of the above groups are substituted. Substituents within the context of this invention are also described above and include halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkyl alkoxy alkylthio haloalkyl aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl heterocycle and heterocycloalkyl as well as NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR NRS O R OR C O R C O OR C O NRR OCHC O NRR OC O NRR SH SR SOR S O NRR S O R OS O Rand S O OR. In addition the above substituents may be further substituted with one or more of the above substituents such that the substituent is a substituted alkyl substituted aryl substituted arylalkyl substituted heterocycle or substituted heterocycloalkyl. Rand Rin this context may be the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl alkoxy aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heterocycle including heteroaryl substituted heterocycle including substituted heteroaryl heterocycloalkyl or substituted heterocycloalkyl.

 Heterocycloalkyl means an alkyl having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with a heterocycle such as CHmorpholinyl CHCHpiperidinyl CHazepineyl CHpirazineyl CHpyranyl CHfuranyl CHpyrrolidinyl and the like.

 Homocycle also referred to herein as homocyclic ring means a saturated or unsaturated but not aromatic carbocyclic ring containing from 3 7 carbon atoms such as cyclopropane cyclobutane cyclopentane cyclohexane cycloheptane cyclohexene and the like.

 Haloalkyl which is an example of a substituted alkyl means an alkyl having at least one hydrogen atom replaced with halogen such as trifluoromethyl and the like.

 Haloaryl which is an example of a substituted aryl means an aryl having at least one hydrogen atom replaced with halogen such as 4 fluorophenyl and the like.

 Alkoxy means an alkyl moiety attached through an oxygen bridge i.e. O alkyl such as methoxy ethoxy and the like.

 Haloalkoxy which is an example of a substituted alkoxy means an alkoxy moiety having at least one hydrogen atom replaced with halogen such as chloromethoxy and the like.

 Alkoxydiyl means an alkyl moiety attached through two separate oxygen bridges i.e. O alkyl O such as O CH O O CHCH O O CHCHCH O O CH CH CHCH O O CHC CH CH O and the like.

 Alkanediyl means a divalent alkyl from which two hydrogen atoms are taken from the same carbon atom or from different carbon atoms such as CH CHCH CHCHCH CH CH CHCH CHC CH CH and the like.

 Thioalkyl means an alkyl moiety attached through a sulfur bridge i.e. S alkyl such as methylthio ethylthio and the like.

 Alkylamino and dialkylamino mean one or two alkyl moieties attached through a nitrogen bridge i.e. N alkyl such as methylamino ethylamino dimethylamino diethylamino and the like.

 Arylalkylamino means an alkylamino having at least one alkyl hydrogen atom replaced with an aryl moiety such as NHCH phenyl and the like.

The compounds described herein may generally be used as the free acid or free base. Alternatively the compounds may be used in the form of acid or base addition salts. Acid addition salts of the free base amino compounds may be prepared according to methods well known in the art and may be formed from organic and inorganic acids. Suitable organic acids include but are not limited to maleic fumaric benzoic ascorbic succinic methanesulfonic acetic oxalic propionic tartaric salicylic citric gluconic lactic mandelic cinnamic aspartic stearic palmitic glycolic glutamic and benzenesulfonic acids. Suitable inorganic acids include but are not limited to hydrochloric hydrobromic sulfuric phosphoric and nitric acids. Base addition salts of the free acid compounds of the compounds described herein may also be prepared by methods well known in the art and may be formed from organic and inorganic bases. Suitable inorganic bases included but are not limited to the hydroxide or other salt of sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum and the like and organic bases such as substituted ammonium salts. Thus the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt of structure I as well as any and all substructures described herein is intended to encompass any and all pharmaceutically suitable salt foams.

Also contemplated are prodrugs of any of the compounds described herein. Prodrugs are any covalently bonded carriers that release a compound of structure I as well as any of the substructures herein in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a subject. Prodrugs are generally prepared by modifying functional groups in a way such that the modification is cleaved either by routine manipulation or by an in vivo process yielding the parent compound. Prodrugs include for example compounds described herein when for example hydroxy or amine groups are bonded to any group that when administered to a subject is cleaved to form the hydroxy or amine groups. Thus representative examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to acetate formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol and amine functional groups of the compounds of structure I as well as any of the substructures herein. Further in the case of a carboxylic acid COOH esters may be employed such as methyl esters ethyl esters and the like. Prodrug chemistry is conventional to and routinely practiced by a person having ordinary skill in the art.

Prodrugs are typically rapidly transformed in vivo to yield the parent compound of the invention for example by hydrolysis in blood. The prodrug compound often offers advantages of solubility tissue compatibility or delayed release in a mammalian organism see e.g. Bundgard H. Design of Prodrugs 1985 pp. 7 9 21 24 Elsevier Amsterdam . A discussion of prodrugs is provided in Higuchi T. et al. Pro drugs as Novel Delivery Systems A.C.S. Symposium Series Vol. 14 and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Ed. Edward B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987 both of which are incorporated in full by reference herein.

With regard to stereoisomers the compounds of structure I as well as any substructure herein may have one or more chiral centers and may occur in any isomeric form including racemates racemic mixtures and as individual enantiomers or diastereomers. In addition the compounds of structure I as well as any substructure thereof include E and Z isomers of all double bonds. All such isomeric forms of the compounds are included and contemplated as well as mixtures thereof. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of any compound described herein may exist as polymorphs which are also included and contemplated by the present disclosure. In addition some of the compounds may form solvates with water or other organic solvents. Such solvates are similarly included within the scope of compounds and compositions described herein.

In general the compounds used in the reactions described herein may be made according to organic synthesis techniques known to those skilled in this art starting from commercially available chemicals and or from compounds described in the chemical literature. Commercially available chemicals may be obtained from standard commercial sources including Acros Organics Pittsburgh Pa. Aldrich Chemical Milwaukee Wis. including Sigma Chemical and Fluka Apin Chemicals Ltd. Milton Park UK Avocado Research Lancashire U.K. BDH Inc. Toronto Canada Bionet Cornwall U.K. Chemservice Inc. West Chester Pa. Crescent Chemical Co. Hauppauge N.Y. Eastman Organic Chemicals Eastman Kodak Company Rochester N.Y. Fisher Scientific Co. Pittsburgh Pa. Fisons Chemicals Leicestershire UK Frontier Scientific Logan Utah ICN Biomedicals Inc. Costa Mesa Calif. Key Organics Cornwall U.K. Lancaster Synthesis Windham N.H. Maybridge Chemical Co. Ltd. Cornwall U.K. Parish Chemical Co. Orem Utah Pfaltz Bauer Inc. Waterbury Conn. Polyorganix Houston Tex. Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. Riedel de Haen AG Hanover Germany Spectrum Quality Product Inc. New Brunswick N.J. TCI America Portland Oreg. Trans World Chemicals Inc. Rockville Md. and Wako Chemicals USA Inc. Richmond Va. .

Methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art may be identified through various reference books and databases. Suitable reference books and treatise that detail the synthesis of reactants useful in the preparation of compounds of the present invention or provide references to articles that describe the preparation include for example Synthetic Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons Inc. New York S. R. Sandler et al. Organic Functional Group Preparations 2nd Ed. Academic Press New York 1983 H. O. House Modern Synthetic Reactions 2nd Ed. W. A. Benjamin Inc. Menlo Park Calif. 1972 T. L. Gilchrist Heterocyclic Chemistry 2nd Ed. John Wiley Sons New York 1992 J. March Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Ed. Wiley Interscience New York 1992. Additional suitable reference books and treatise that detail the synthesis of reactants useful in the preparation of compounds of the present invention or provide references to articles that describe the preparation include for example Fuhrhop J. and Penzlin G. Organic Synthesis Concepts Methods Starting Materials Second Revised and Enlarged Edition 1994 John Wiley Sons ISBN 3 527 29074 5 Hoffman R. V. Organic Chemistry An Intermediate Text 1996 Oxford University Press ISBN 0 19 509618 5 Larock R. C. Comprehensive Organic Transformations A Guide to Functional Group Preparations 2nd Edition 1999 Wiley VCH ISBN 0 471 19031 4 March J. Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Edition 1992 John Wiley Sons ISBN 0 471 60180 2 Otera J. editor Modern Carbonyl Chemistry 2000 Wiley VCH ISBN 3 527 29871 1 Patai S. Patai s 1992 Guide to the Chemistry of Functional Groups 1992 Interscience ISBN 0 471 93022 9 Quin L. D. et al. A Guide to Organophosphorus Chemistry 2000 Wiley Interscience ISBN 0 471 31824 8 Solomons T. W. G. Organic Chemistry 7th Edition 2000 John Wiley Sons ISBN 0 471 19095 0 Stowell J. C. Intermediate Organic Chemistry 2nd Edition 1993 Wiley Interscience ISBN 0 471 57456 2 Industrial Organic Chemicals Starting Materials and Intermediates An Ullmann s Encyclopedia 1999 John Wiley Sons ISBN 3 527 29645 X in 8 volumes Organic Reactions 1942 2000 John Wiley Sons in over 55 volumes and Chemistry of Functional Groups John Wiley Sons in 73 volumes.

Specific and analogous reactants may also be identified through the indices of known chemicals prepared by the Chemical Abstract Service of the American Chemical Society which are available in most public and university libraries as well as through on line databases the American Chemical Society Washington D.C. may be contacted for more details . Chemicals that are known but not commercially available in catalogs may be prepared by custom chemical synthesis houses where many of the standard chemical supply houses e.g. those listed above provide custom synthesis services. A reference for the preparation and selection of pharmaceutical salts of the present invention is P. H. Stahl C. G. Wermuth Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta Zurich 2002.

Appropriately substituted compounds of formula 101 and formula 102 are commercially available or can be prepared according to methods and techniques with which a person skilled in the art is familiar. A compound of formula 101 may be combined with a compound of formula 102 in the presence of a base such as triethylamine EtN to form a compound of formula 103 . Further in the presence of a base such as triethylamine a compound of formula 103 forms a compound of formula 104 . A compound of formula 104 combined with an appropriate base such as triethylamine in the presence of a solvent such as ethanol EtOH followed by treatment with R wherein Ris an appropriate Rcontaining reagent yields compounds of formula I . The substituents X R R R R R R and Rare the same as described above. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the Rreagent encompasses any reagent such that base treatment of compounds of formula 104 followed by reaction with Ryields compounds of formula I . Examples of Rreagents include but are not limited to sulfhydryl heterocyclic and aminyl groups. One skilled in the art will also appreciate that in some embodiments further reaction of the compound of formula I may be required to obtain the desired structure.

Reaction scheme 2 depicts an exemplary reaction scheme for synthesizing compounds of structure Ik disclosed herein.

Appropriately substituted compounds of formula 105 and formula 106 are commercially available or can be prepared according to methods and techniques with which a person skilled in the art is familiar. A compound of formula 105 may be combined with a compound of formula 106 in the presence of triethylamine EtN to form a compound of formula 107 . Further in the presence of triethylamine a compound of formula 107 forms a compound of formula 108 . A compound of formula 108 combined with NaSH and ethanol EtOH followed by treatment with Br R yields compounds of formula Ik . One skilled in the art will recognize that where Ris hydrogen treatment with Br R is not required. The substituents X R R R R R R and Rare the same as described above. Rmay be any one of the following Calkyl substituted or unsubstituted carboxyphenyl i.e. C O phenyl CH C O NHRwherein n is 1 to 6 and Ris hydrogen straight chain Calkyl arylalkyl or heterocyclealkyl.

Provided herein are methods for using the phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole and phenylsulfoxythiazole compounds having the structure I and substructures Ia Ij . As described in detail herein methods are provided for treating a disease disorder or condition associated with aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute in a subject by administering to the subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one of the compounds having the structure I and substructures Ia Ij described above. In a particular embodiment the compounds and compositions described herein may treat a disease disorder or condition associated with aberrant transport of urea by a urea transporter. The compound may specifically inhibit all urea transporters or may interact with and inhibit only one subfamily of urea transporter i.e. either UT A transporters or UT B transporters . The compounds described herein may specifically inhibit at least one of the UT A isoforms e.g. UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 UT A5 .

The compounds having the structure I and substructures Ia Ij described herein may be used to alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner transport of urea across a cell membrane by at least one urea transporter. In particular embodiments transport activity of at least one urea transporter is inhibited thus the compounds are capable of preventing blocking or decreasing transport of urea across a cell membrane. Methods are provided for an in vitro assay in which a cell comprising at least one urea transporter is contacted combined mixed or in some manner permitted to interact with a composition comprising at least one compound having the structure I or any one of the substructures described herein. In one embodiment at least one compound described herein inhibits transport of urea by a UT B transporter. In another embodiment at least one compound having structure I or any substructure described herein inhibits the capability of a UT A transporter to transport urea. In particular embodiments the UT A transporter is at least one of UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5. In certain embodiments the cell is a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell or a testis cell. In a particular embodiment the cell is a renal cell. In another particular embodiment the cell is a red blood cell which comprises at least a UT B transporter.

Urea transporters UTs are transmembrane proteins that transport urea across cellular membranes. UTs may be expressed in such tissues as the outer and inner medulla of the kidney erythropoietic tissue testis and hepatocytes. One function of UTs is production of concentrated urea which is critical for retention of water.

Urea is generated as the major end product of hepatic nitrogen metabolism and is excreted primarily by the kidney. Urea and sodium chloride are the major solutes in the hyperosmolar renal medulla. In the antidiuretic kidney urea is greatly concentrated with respect to plasma up to 100 times in humans and 250 times in rodents by countercurrent multiplication and exchange mechanisms Bankir et al. 6 pages 637 679 Brenner B M ed. WB Saunders Company Philadelphia Pa. 2000 . Of central importance to these mechanisms is intrarenal urea recycling which requires facilitated urea transport by molecular urea transporters UTs . UTs are comprised of two major subfamilies encoded by different genes UT A and UT B see e.g. Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Shayakul et al. 447 603 609 2004 . In kidney a single UT B isoform is expressed in vasa recta while several splice variant UT A type transporters are expressed in kidney tubule epithelia see e.g. Sands 13 525 32 2004 . See also Karakashian et al. 10 230 37 1999 Sands 67 112 19 2000 and Leroy et al. 271 368 73 2000 .

Five UT A urea transporter isoforms UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5 are encoded by alternatively splicing of the Slc14A2 gene see e.g. Bagnasco et al. 281 F400 F406 2001 Shayakul et al. 447 603 609 2004 Bagnasco 450 217 26 2005 Sands 13 525 32 2004 Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Sands et al. 273 F321 39 1997 Sands 65 543 66 2003 . The Slc14A1 gene encodes a single UT B isoform see e.g. Sands 13 525 32 2004 Lucien et al. 273 12973 80 1998 Bagnasco 284 F3 F10 2003 Sidoux et al. 274 30228 35 1999 see also e.g. Tsukaguchi et al. 99 1506 15 1997 .

In one embodiment methods are provided for altering i.e. increasing or decreasing in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner transport of urea across a cell membrane by a urea transporter in a cell. Such methods comprise contacting i.e. combining mixing or in some manner permitting interaction with the cell and any one or more i.e. at least one of the compounds having the structure I and substructures Ia Ij described herein or a composition comprising at least one or more of such compounds. The compounds described herein are capable of inhibiting transport of urea by at least one urea transporter e.g. a UT B in a cell in vivo i.e. in an animal including a human or in vitro in an assay method for example.

In a specific embodiment a method is provided for inhibiting transport of urea across a cell membrane which method comprises contacting i.e. combining mixing or in some manner permitting interaction with a cell with at least one compounds having the structure I and substructures Ia Ij or composition comprising a compound as described herein wherein the cell comprises at least one urea transporter. The compounds described herein inhibit i.e. reduce abrogate prevent or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea across a cell membrane. A compound described herein may specifically interact with all urea transporters or may interact with only one subfamily of urea transporter i.e. either UT A transporters or UT B transporters . Alternatively the compound may specifically interact with at least one but not all of UT A transporters. In a particular embodiment the compounds inhibit a UT B transporter.

Compounds having the structure I and substructures Ia Ij inhibit the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea across a cell membrane. The transporter may be endogenously expressed by the cell i.e. the genome of the cell comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes the transporter which is transcribed into mRNA that is translated or the transporter may be recombinantly expressed in the cell i.e. the cell comprises an exogenous polynucleotide that directs the expression of the transporter polypeptide . In a particular embodiment the transporter is located in the outer cell membrane and is capable of transporting a solute into the cell from the extracellular environment or space influx and out of the cell into the extracellular environment or space efflux .

In a particular embodiment the compound inhibits i.e. blocks prevents reduces or decreases in a statistically or biologically significant manner the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea across a cell membrane and thus inhibits urea influx and or efflux. The compound may inhibit the transport activity of the transporter by binding to the transporter such that the compound inhibits transport of urea into the cell from the extracellular space and or the compound may bind to the transporter such that transport of urea out of the cell into the extracellular space is inhibited.

Cells may be obtained or derived from a biological sample. A biological sample as used herein refers in certain embodiments to a sample containing at least one cell or a plurality of cells that endogenously or exogenously expresses at least one urea transporter. A biological sample may be a blood sample such as whole blood or a cellular fraction of whole blood biopsy specimen body fluids that contain cells that express at least one transporter e.g. lung lavage ascites mucosal washings synovial fluid bone marrow lymph nodes tissue explant organ culture or any other tissue or cell preparation from a subject or a biological source. A sample may further refer to a tissue or cell preparation in which the morphological integrity or physical state of the tissue has been disrupted for example by dissection dissociation solubilization fractionation homogenization biochemical or chemical extraction. The subject or biological source may be a human or non human animal a primary cell culture e.g. kidney cells or other cells that endogenously express a transporter or culture adapted cell line including but not limited to genetically engineered cell lines that may contain chromosomally integrated or episomal recombinant nucleic acid sequences immortalized or immortalizable cell lines somatic cell hybrid cell lines differentiated or differentiable cell lines transformed cell lines and the like.

The cells comprising a urea transporter that is inhibited by the compounds and compositions described herein include cells that endogenously express a urea transporter polypeptide. Exemplary cells that endogenously express a urea transporter include but are not limited to a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell a liver cell or a testis cell. Transport of urea by urea transporters and transport of water by aquaporins are opposing processes in such cells. An exemplary cell that may be used in the methods described herein and that expresses a urea transporter is a red blood cell i.e. erythrocyte which endogenously expresses the urea transporter UT B also referred to as the Kidd blood group antigen . Red blood cells also express an aquaporin AQP1.

Alternatively the cells which may be any one of a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell a liver cell or a testis cell or other cell may comprise an exogenous polynucleotide that encodes a urea transporter polypeptide. The cell may be transfected transformed or transduced with a recombinant expression vector which comprises a polynucleotide that is capable of directing expression of at least one urea transporter. To direct expression of at least one transporter the polynucleotide comprises a nucleotide sequence that encodes at least one urea transporter which nucleotide sequence is operatively linked to at least one expression control sequence e.g. a promoter enhancer transcriptional control element and the like . Recombinant expression vectors may be prepared according to methods and techniques with which a person skilled in the molecular biology art is familiar. An exemplary cell line that may be transfected with a recombinant expression vector comprising a polynucleotide that directs expression of a urea transporter or other transport includes Madin Darby canine kidney cells MDCK .

Cells may be obtained or derived from any one of a number of animals including mammals. Mammalian cells may be obtained or may have originated from humans non human primates rodents such as mice rats or rabbits cats feline dogs canine cattle bovine sheep ovine pigs porcine llamas and camels for example.

Methods that may be used to identify and to characterize urea transporter inhibitors such as the compounds described herein include red blood cell lysis methods and a stopped flow light scattering methods. Such assays may be used to determine the effective concentrations of a particular compound and thus are useful for predicting the capability of the compound to effectively treat a disease disorder or condition related to aberrant urea transporter activity in a subject.

One method for identifying and characterizing phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole and phenylsulfoxythiazole compounds that are capable of inhibiting a urea transporter includes a cell lysis assay see Example 1 . The cell lysis assay is useful for determining the capability of a compound to alter transport of urea or an analogue thereof by a urea transporter thus altering urea permeability of the cell. In particular embodiments the method is useful for identifying and characterizing a compound having a structure I or a substructure described herein that inhibits i.e. blocks prevents reduces or decreases in a statistically or biologically significant manner the capability of a urea transporter to transport urea across a cell membrane and thus inhibits urea influx and or efflux. A compound that inhibits the capability of a urea transporter to transport urea may bind to the urea transporter such that transport of urea into the cell from the extracellular space is inhibited or the compound may bind to the urea transporter such that transport of urea out of the cell into the extracellular space is inhibited or may inhibit both influx and efflux of urea.

A method for identifying an agent that inhibits transport of urea across a cell membrane or influx or efflux of urea comprises preparing a mixture suspension or sample of a plurality of indicator cells which are obtained from or derived from a biological sample and a hyperosmolar solution to obtain a mixture suspension or sample of the indicator cells in hyperosmolar conditions. The hyperosmolar solution includes a physiological solvent that is an appropriate diluent or media for cells and includes urea or a urea analog including but not limited to formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide at a concentration sufficient to result in a decrease in volume of an indicator cell due to flow of water out of the cell efflux when the indicator cells are placed into or incubated in the hyperosmolar solution.

Urea may be used as the solute in the hyperosmolar solution. The concentration of urea in a hyperosmolar solution may be any concentration between about 2.0 3.0 M or in certain other embodiments between about 1.5 3.0 M or between about 2.3 2.7 M. In another embodiment the hyperosmolar solution comprises a urea analogue which may be at a concentration of about 1.25 M or may be any concentration between about 1.0 1.5 M or between about 0.5 2.0 M or between about 1.0 1.75 M.

The concentration of urea or a urea analogue may be optimized by titration experiments so that an agent that inhibits transport of urea by a urea transporter is readily distinguished i.e. quantifiably distinguishable from the controls. For example in a control sample that does not contain an agent or that contains an inactive agent lysis of between 0 40 0 30 0 20 0 15 or 0 10 of the indicator cells e.g. red blood cells may be observed. In a sample that contains an inhibitor of a urea transporter lysis of between 41 100 50 to 100 60 to 100 70 to 100 80 to 100 or 90 to 100 of indicator cells may be observed.

A hyperosmolar solution comprises a greater number of solute particles osmoles than a second different solution. Indicator cells are placed in a solution i.e. the extracellular environment made hyperosmolar by the presence of a particular solute such that the concentration of the solute or solutes in the hyperosmolar solution is greater than the intracellular concentration of the solute s . By placing the indicator cells in a hyperosmolar solution water in the indicator cells will flow out of the cell which in turn results in the volume of the cell decreasing. Exemplary solutes include urea or a urea analog for example formamide acetamide propionamide N methylurea butyramide and isobutyramide. Exemplary indicator cells include red blood cells.

The indicator cells may be combined with the hyperosmolar solution in any of a variety of containers or sample vessels including test tubes multi well plates such as 48 well 72 well 96 well or 384 well plates or other such vessels including those useful for high throughput screening formats wherein for example detection of indicator cell lysis in a plurality or reaction vessels may be automated. The cells may be in suspension or adhered to a surface. When cells are adherent cells the surface to which the cells are adhered may be solid such as a tissue culture plate e.g. 24 well 48 well 72 well 96 well plates 384 well plate or the cells may be adhered to microcarrier beads. Alternatively the surface on which the cells adhere may be porous such that the apical cell surface and basolateral cell surface may be exposed to or bathed in the solutions described herein. The number of samples to be assayed may influence the degree of automation that can be implemented. For example when high throughput screening i.e. assaying a large number of samples in a relatively brief time period is desired robotic or semi robotic instruments may be used. In certain instances microfluidics multiplexing technologies may be employed see e.g. Thorsen et al. Science 298 580 84 2002 Manz and Becker eds. Springer 1999 Zhang et al CRC Press 2002 Tabeling Oxford University Press 2006 . Alternatively samples may be processed manually even for formats that accommodate large sample numbers e.g. 96 well microplates .

Each vessel tube or well herein referred to as sample of indicator cells is maintained in i.e. exposed to placed in or incubated in the hyperosmolar solution under conditions and for a time sufficient for the volume of the cell to decrease due to the directional flow of water out of the cell. Appropriate conditions for maintaining or incubating the indicator cells in a hyperosmolar solution include for example temperature agitation and speed of agitation or other methods of maintaining the cells in suspension if the cells are suspension cells that is cells that are not adhered to a vessel container or multi well plate atmosphere for example the indicator cells may be a cell that requires an atmosphere containing carbon dioxide at a level typical for maintaining viability of cultured cells and other conditions with which a person skilled in the art will be familiar.

The conditions and the period of time that the indicator cells are incubated in the hyperosmolar solution can be determined empirically for the type of indicator cell that is used. The temperature at which the cells may be incubated in the hyperosmolar solution may be a temperature or a range of temperatures considered ambient room temperature e.g. between approximately 19 C. 26 C. or between approximately 21 C. 25 C. or may be a temperature or range of temperatures considered physiological for animal cells e.g. 37 C. or any temperature between 35 to 40 C. . Generally the cells are placed in a hyperosmolar solution for at least 15 minutes at least 30 minutes at least 60 minutes 1 hour at least 90 minutes or at least 120 minutes 2 hours or at least 180 minutes 3 hours or at least 240 minutes 4 hours or longer than 4 hours. By way of example if the indicator cells are red blood cells the cells may be placed in the hyperosmolar solution for 30 minutes to 120 minutes.

To each sample that is a mixture of indicator cells in a hyperosmolar solution is added at least one compound. In certain instances such as screening a library with thousands of compounds at least two three four or more compounds may be added to the mixture. The mixture of indicator cells and the candidate agent are combined under conditions and for a time sufficient for the candidate agent to interact with the indicator cell and particularly to interact with a urea transporter of the indicator cell. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that appropriate conditions to permit interaction between the compound and the indicator cell include temperature agitation and speed of agitation or other methods of maintaining contact between the indicator cells and the candidate agent and atmosphere. The kinetics of binding of a transporter and an agent that alters the capability of a solute transporter to transport the solute may be rapid. Thus in certain instances the time sufficient for an indicator cell and candidate agent to interact may be 1 2 minutes 3 4 minutes 5 6 minutes 7 8 minutes or 9 10 minutes. In other instances the time sufficient may be at least 10 15 20 25 or 30 minutes or longer than 30 minutes.

After a sufficient time for the indicator cell and the candidate agent to interact the osmolarity of the sample is decreased to place the indicator cells in a substantially isosmolar solution. The osmolarity of the sample may be reduced by removing the hyperosmolar solution and replacing the hyperosmolar solution with a second solution e.g. a physiological buffer diluent or media that lacks urea or an analogue thereof or that has a significantly reduced number of osmoles of the solute compared with the hyperosmolar solution such that a mixture suspension or sample of the indicator cells in an isosmolar solution is obtained. Alternatively the hyperosmolar mixture combination or sample of the indicator cells in the absence and presence of the candidate agent is diluted into a second solution e.g. a physiological buffer diluent or media to obtain a substantially isosmolar mixture. The percent dilution or fold dilution of the hyperosmolar solution to provide a substantially isosmolar mixture may also be determined empirically for a particular type of indicator cell and is the fold dilution sufficient to observe an increase in the volume of the indicator cell as water flows into the cell. The osmoles in a substantially isosmolar mixture may be reduced at least ten fold compared with the osmoles of the hyperosmolar solution. For example if the hyperosmolar is 1500 mOsm the substantially isosmolar mixture may be about 150 mOsm. In certain embodiments the osmoles in a substantially isosmolar mixture may be reduced between seven eight nine or ten fold compared with the osmoles in the hyperosmolar solution. In other certain embodiments the osmoles in a substantially isosmolar mixture may be reduced 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 fold or greater compared with the osmoles in the hyperosmolar solution.

To determine whether the presence of the compound in the sample inhibits urea transport by a urea transporter the level of indicator cell lysis in the substantially isosmolar solution is determined. The level of lysis partial or complete as described herein in indicator cells e.g. red blood cells in the presence of an agent i.e. also referred to herein as a first level of lysis that is an inhibitor of a urea transporter is greater than the level of lysis in indicator cells that are not exposed to an inhibitor of the urea transporter i.e. also referred to herein as a second level of indicator cell lysis . When the indicator cells in the hyperosmolar mixture comprising an active agent are transferred to exposed to resuspended in placed in or diluted into a substantially isosmolar solution the indicator cells are incapable of transporting the solute out of the cell thus entry of water into cells from the extracellular environment results in partial or total cell lysis. For example in a sample that does not contain an agent or that contains an inactive agent lysis between 0 40 0 30 0 20 0 15 or 0 10 of the indicator cells may be observed. In a sample that contains an inhibitor of a transporter lysis of between 41 100 50 100 60 100 70 100 80 100 or 90 100 of the indicator cells may be observed.

Lysis as used herein refers to complete or total lysis of a cell i.e. complete and total disruption or loss of outer cell membrane integrity or partial lysis of the cell i.e. partial or incomplete disruption of the outer cell membrane integrity . The loss of integrity of the outer cell membrane whether partial or complete can be quantified using techniques practiced in the art and described herein. Release of an intracellular molecule may be detected by methods that detect the specific molecule such as by an immunoassay or by detecting a particular property or function of the intracellular molecule for example by measuring an enzymatic activity. Release of a cytoplasmic polypeptide or other molecule means that a polypeptide or other cellular molecule that is typically intracellular that is located in the cytoplasm of the cell or in an organelle of the cell but not secreted under normal physiological conditions when the cell is viable and intact can be detected extracellularly.

Accordingly methods and techniques that may be used to determine the level of cell lysis include any number of immunoassay methods e.g. ELISA radioimmunoassay immunoprecipitation for detecting release of a cytoplasmic polypeptide or other molecule from the cell. Release of a specific intracellular molecule or release of multiple intracellular molecules may be detected by detectably labeling the cells with a detectable moiety prior to placing the cells in the hyperosmolar solution. Exemplary detectable moieties which may also be called tags reporter molecules or labels include a dye radionuclide luminescent group fluorescent group or biotin or the like. Methods for labeling cells with a reporter molecule and for detecting the reporter molecule are known to and routinely practiced by persons skilled in the art. Cell lysis may also be determined by techniques that detect the enzymatic activity of a specific intracellular enzyme. Other methods and techniques for determining the level of cell lysis include detecting a released intracellular molecule or molecules by methods that include mass spectrometry chromatography e.g. affinity chromatography wherein a ligand of an intracellular molecule is attached to a chromatography matrix and spectrophotometry.

Spectrophotometric measurements may be determined at a wavelength in the visible or ultraviolet spectrum. The level of lysis of indicator cells such as lysis of red blood cells can be quantified by determining the absorbance at 710 nm of a sample Mazeron et al. 72 172 78 2000 Cohn et al. 132 27 34 2003 . A sample that contains an inhibitor of a solute transporter which has an increased level of cell lysis compared to a sample that does not contain a solute transporter inhibitor exhibits a decreased level of absorbance at 710 nm compared with a control sample i.e. in the absence of an inhibitor .

Other techniques for quantifying lysis of cells may be specific for one or more different types of indicator cells. For example when the indictor cells are red blood cells cell lysis may be quantified by quantifying hemoglobin which may be accomplished spectrophotometrically by chemical methods or by any number of immunoassays practiced in the art. Additional exemplary methods for detecting red blood cell lysis include quantifying ATP that is released by the cell Moehlenbrock et al. 131 930 7 2006 Epub Jun. 6 2006 determining the level of cytoplasmic lactate dehydrogenase released which can be measured in an enzymatic assay or in any number of immunoassays using an antibody that specifically binds to lactate dehydrogenase or determining the level of oxygen released.

To determine whether an agent alters the volume of the indicator cell the level of cell lysis of indicator cells that are contacted with a candidate agent herein also called a first level of cell lysis is compared with the level of lysis of indicator cells in the control sample that lacks the candidate agent herein also called a second level of cell lysis . A control sample may be prepared in which all assay conditions and components are identical to those described above except that the candidate agent is omitted from the sample i.e. indicator cells have not been contacted or combined with a candidate agent . Alternatively or in addition to such a control sample at least one other control sample may include all the components of a sample that includes the candidate agent but instead of the candidate agent the sample contains a compound or molecule that is known not to alter the volume of a cell. A person skilled in the art will also appreciate that the methods described herein may include additional control samples including a sample comprising a known compound or agent that is capable of altering the volume of a cell to evaluate and ensure the robustness accuracy and precision of the method. A person skilled in the art will also appreciate that the methods described herein may include additional control samples including a compound or agent that is capable of inhibiting urea transport by a UT of the cell to evaluate and ensure the robustness accuracy and precision of the method. Statistical methods may be applied to the determinations of cell lysis in the absence and presence of a candidate agent to evaluate and compare the different candidate agents tested.

As described herein indicator cells used in the methods for identifying and characterizing the compounds described herein that inhibit transport of urea by a urea transporter may include cells that endogenously express at least one urea transporter or that recombinantly express at least one urea transporter. In certain instances the indicator cells are red blood cells that endogenously express the UT B urea transporter. The red blood cells may be obtained from any animal including human and non human primates rodents e.g. rats and mice and other mammals. The solute of the hyperosmolar solution and the optimal concentration of the solute i.e. urea or a urea analogue may vary depending on the source of the indicator cell which may be readily determined using the methods described herein. For example when the indicator cell is a human red blood cell the hyperosmolar solution may contain a urea analogue such as acetamide. Alternatively the red blood cells are obtained from a rodent such as a mouse and the urea analogue N methylurea is the solute comprising the hyperosmolar solution.

The compounds having structure I or any substructure thereof e.g. Ia Ij described herein that alter urea transport by a urea transporter may be analyzed and further characterized by additional methods and techniques described herein and practiced in the art. Such methods may be used in dose response experiments to evaluate the effective concentration of each compound. Dose response experiments may be performed using the indicator cell lysis methods described herein. For example the EC i.e. the concentration of a compound where 50 of its maximal effect is observed of a solute transporter may be calculated by non linear regression to the equation lysis lysis lysis inh EC inh where inh is inhibitor concentration and H is the Hill coefficient.

Other methods for characterizing compounds include stopped flow light scattering to measure solute and water permeabilities of a cell see e.g. Yang et al. 277 36782 86 2002 Epub 2002 Jul. 19 Macey et al. 134 3 241 50 1993 . For example to determine the urea permeability of a cell dilutions of indicator cells such as red blood cells may be incubated with an agent and then subjected to an inwardly directed gradient of urea. After the cells osmotically shrink i.e. the cell volume decreases the kinetics of increasing cell volume caused by urea influx can be measured over a time course during which the cells are exposed to 90 scattered light intensity at 530 nm. As the volume of the cell increases scattered light intensity is reduced. Stopped flow light scattering may also be used to determine ECvalues for inhibition by a urea transporter and may also be used to determine the sideness of the inhibitor action i.e. whether the inhibitor alters a solute transporter activity by preventing or inhibiting entry of a solute into the cell or whether the inhibitor alters a solute transport activity by preventing or inhibiting efflux of the inhibitor from the cell .

Thus the compounds having the structure I and substructures described herein may be used to alter i.e. increase or decrease in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner a transporter activity of urea by at least one urea transporter. In particular embodiments the transporter activity of a urea transporter is inhibited thus the compounds are capable of preventing blocking or decreasing transport of urea across a cell membrane. Methods are provided for an in vitro assay in which a cell comprising at least one urea transporter is contacted combined mixed or in some manner permitted to interact with a composition comprising at least one compound described herein. In one embodiment at least one compound described herein inhibits urea transport by the UT B transporter. In another embodiment at least one compound described herein inhibits the capability of a UT A transporter to transport urea. In particular embodiments the UT A transporter is at least one of UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5. In certain embodiments the cell is a renal cell a brain cell a red blood cell or a testis cell. In a particular embodiment the cell is a renal cell. In another particular embodiment the cell is a red blood cell and the red blood cell comprises at least a UT B transporter.

Agents identified by the methods described herein include agents that are capable of inhibiting transport of urea across a cell membrane and inhibiting entry of urea into a cell and or inhibiting efflux of urea out of the cell. Provided herein are compounds that are potent urea transporter inhibitors which include inhibitors of UT B. The exemplary compounds belong to chemical classes including but not limited to phenylsulfoxyoxazoles and phenylsulfoxyimidazoles which had submicromolar ECvalues in red blood cell lysis assays and in stopped flow light scattering assays.

Agents and compounds identified and characterized by the methods described herein may be used in pharmaceutical compositions for treating diseases and conditions related to aberrant solute or water transport. The compounds described herein may be used to treat or ameliorate conditions and diseases related to aberrant urea transport such as conditions related to aberrant renal urea clearance. Such diseases and conditions include cardiovascular disease e.g. hypertension and congestive heart failure syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention and abnormal uresis.

The compounds having the structure I and substructures Ia Ij described herein may also be used for developing animal models that mimic a urea transporter knock out animal model. For example by administering a UT B inhibitor to an animal thus creating a UT B chemical knock out animal the mechanism and activities of other urea transporters may be studied and analyzed. Similarly chemical UT A knock out animals may be made by administering an inhibitor of a UT A transporter or by administering an inhibitor specific for one UT A isoform. Such models would also be useful for determining the specificity and selectivity of a urea transporter inhibitor see e.g. Klein et al. 15 1161 67 2004 .

A composition comprising at least one of the phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole and phenylsulfoxythiazole compounds described herein may be used for treating a disease disorder or condition in a subject. In one embodiment methods are provided for treating a disease disorder or condition that is associated with aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute e.g. urea by administering compositions comprising at least one compound as described herein. A disease condition or disorder related to or associated with aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute includes a fluid retention imbalance for example urea clearance insufficiency. In certain instances the urea clearance insufficiency is a renal urea clearance insufficiency associated with an abnormality disease or dysfunction that occurs in the kidneys. The compounds having the structure I and substructures Ia Ij described herein may be used to treat a cardiovascular renal or metabolic disease disorder or condition such as hypertension congestive heart failure syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention and abnormal uresis.

In a particular embodiment methods are provided for treating such a disease disorder or condition by inhibiting the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea. In one embodiment at least one of the compounds described herein inhibits the capability of a UT B transporter to transport urea. In another embodiment at least one compound described herein inhibits the capability of a UT A transporter to transport urea. In particular embodiments the UT A transporter is at least one of UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 and UT A5. A compound having the structure I or substructures Ia Ij may be used as a type of diuretic a urearetic that affects renal urea clearance mechanisms.

Methods are also provided for using the compounds described herein for treating a disease disorder or condition associated with or related to aberrant transport of a neutrally charged solute in a subject by administering to the subject in need thereof a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one of the compounds having the structure and substructures described above. The disease disorder or condition that is related to aberrant urea transporter activity includes a disease disorder or condition that is caused by in whole or in part by aberrant urea transport and also includes a disease disorder or condition for which aberrant urea transporter activity is a sequelae of the disease disorder or condition. The disease disorder or condition that may be treated using the compounds and compositions described herein may be associated with a fluid retention imbalance such as urea clearance insufficiency. Urea is a by product of protein metabolism that is formed in the liver. Because urea contains ammonia which is toxic to an animal body urea must be quickly filtered from the blood by the kidneys and excreted in the urine. Also as described herein conservation of water in mammals depends significantly on the transport of urea particularly in the kidney. Urea is generated as the major end product of hepatic nitrogen metabolism and is excreted primarily by the kidney. In a particular embodiment the disease disorder or condition associated with aberrant urea transport is renal urea clearance insufficiency.

In one embodiment treating any one of the aforementioned diseases or conditions comprises inhibiting i.e. preventing decreasing reducing abrogating or inhibiting in a statistically significant or biologically significant manner the capability of at least one urea transporter to transport urea by administering a composition comprising any one or more of the compounds having the structure I or substructures Ia Ij . The compound may inhibit a UT B transporter and or may inhibit at least one UT A transporter or isoform thereof e.g. UT A1 UT A2 UT A3 UT A4 UT A5 . The subject and thus the source of the urea transporter may be a human or non human mammal. Exemplary non human mammals include non human primates rodents such as mice rats or rabbits cats feline dogs canine cattle bovine sheep ovine pigs porcine llamas and camels other domestic or zoo animals.

To evaluate and to monitor the effectiveness of a phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole or phenylsulfoxythiazole compound described herein to treat a disease disorder or condition one of several clinical assay methods may be performed. To evaluate and to monitor the effectiveness of any one of the compounds described herein to treat a disease disorder or condition one or more of several clinical assay methods may be performed that are familiar to a person skilled in the clinical art. For example a clinical method called a urea clearance test may be performed. A blood sample is obtained from a subject to whom the compound is being administered so that the amount of urea in the bloodstream can be determined. In addition a first urine sample is collected from the subject and at least one hour later a second urine sample is collected. The amount of urea quantified in the urine indicates the amount of urea that is filtered or cleared by the kidneys into the urine. Another clinical assay method measures urine osmolality i.e. the amount of dissolved solute particles in the urine . Inability of the kidneys to concentrate the urine in response to restricted fluid intake or to dilute the urine in response to increased fluid intake during osmolality testing may indicate decreased kidney function.

Urea is a by product of protein metabolism and is formed in the liver. Urea is then filtered from the blood and excreted in the urine by the kidneys. The BUN blood urea nitrogen test measures the amount of nitrogen contained in the urea. High BUN levels may indicate kidney dysfunction but because blood urea nitrogen is also affected by protein intake and liver function the test is usually performed in conjunction with determination of blood creatinine which is considered a more specific indicator of kidney function. Low clearance values for creatinine and urea indicate diminished ability of the kidneys to filter these waste products from the blood and excrete them in the urine. As clearance levels decrease blood levels of creatinine and urea nitrogen increase. An abnormally elevated blood creatinine a more specific and sensitive indicator of kidney disease than the BUN is diagnostic of impaired kidney function.

As used herein a subject may be any mammal including a human that may have or be afflicted with a disease condition or disorder described herein. A pharmaceutical composition may be a sterile aqueous or non aqueous solution suspension or emulsion which additionally comprises at least one physiologically acceptable excipient i.e. a physiologically and pharmaceutically suitable non toxic and inactive material or ingredient that does not interfere with the activity of the active ingredient an excipient also may be called a carrier . Such compositions may be in the form of a solid liquid or gas aerosol . Alternatively compositions described herein may be formulated as a lyophilizate or compounds may be encapsulated within liposomes using technology known in the art. Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other components which may be biologically active or inactive. Such components include but are not limited to buffers e.g. neutral buffered saline or phosphate buffered saline carbohydrates e.g. glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione stabilizers dyes flavoring agents and suspending agents and or preservatives.

Any suitable excipient or carrier known to those of ordinary skill in the art for use in pharmaceutical compositions may be employed in the compositions described herein. Excipients for therapeutic use are well known and are described for example in Gennaro 21Ed. Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. 2005 . In general the type of excipient is selected based on the mode of administration. Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated for any appropriate manner of administration including for example topical oral nasal intrathecal rectal vaginal intraocular subconjunctival sublingual or parenteral administration including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intrasternal intracavernous intrameatal or intraurethral injection or infusion. For parenteral administration the carrier preferably comprises water saline alcohol a fat a wax or a buffer. For oral administration any of the above excipients or a solid excipient or carrier such as mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine talcum cellulose kaolin glycerin starch dextrins sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose glucose sucrose and or magnesium carbonate may be employed.

A pharmaceutical composition e.g. for oral administration or delivery by injection may be in the form of a liquid. A liquid pharmaceutical composition may include for example one or more of the following a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils that may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents antioxidants chelating agents buffers and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. The use of physiological saline is preferred and an injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A composition comprising a phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole or phenylsulfoxythiazole compound described herein may be formulated for sustained or slow release. Such compositions may generally be prepared using well known technology and administered by for example oral rectal or subcutaneous implantation or by implantation at the desired target site. Sustained release formulations may contain an agent dispersed in a carrier matrix and or contained within a reservoir surrounded by a rate controlling membrane. Excipients for use within such formulations are biocompatible and may also be biodegradable preferably the formulation provides a relatively constant level of active component release. The amount of active compound contained within a sustained release formulation depends upon the site of implantation the rate and expected duration of release and the nature of the condition to be treated or prevented.

The dose of the composition for treating a disease or disorder associated with a fluid retention imbalance such as urea clearance insufficiency or for treating cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension or congestive heart failure syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion SIADH cirrhosis azotemia acute renal failure chronic renal insufficiency fluid retention and abnormal uresis may be determined according to parameters understood by a person skilled in the medical art. Accordingly the appropriate dose may depend upon the subject s condition that is stage of the disease general health status as well as age gender and weight and other factors considered by a person skilled in the medical art.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in a manner appropriate to the disease to be treated as determined by persons skilled in the medical arts. An appropriate dose and a suitable duration and frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the condition of the patient the type and severity of the patient s disease the particular form of the active ingredient and the method of administration. In general an appropriate dose and treatment regimen provides the composition s in an amount sufficient to provide therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit e.g. an improved clinical outcome such as more frequent complete or partial remissions or longer disease free and or overall survival or a lessening of symptom severity .

Optimal doses may generally be determined using experimental models and or clinical trials. The optimal dose may depend upon the body mass weight or blood volume of the subject. In general the amount of a phenylsulfoxyoxazole phenylsulfoxyimidazole or phenylsulfoxythiazole compound as described herein that is present in a dose ranges from about 0.01 g to about 1000 g per kg of host. The use of the minimum dose that is sufficient to provide effective therapy is usually preferred. Subjects may generally be monitored for therapeutic effectiveness using assays suitable for the condition being treated or prevented which assays will be familiar to those having ordinary skill in the art and are described herein.

The following Examples are offered for the purpose of illustrating the present invention and are not to be construed to limit the scope of this invention.

An RBC lysis assay was developed in an automated 96 well format high throughput format and optimized for identification and characterization of small molecule UT B inhibitors. Inhibition of UT B mediated transport of urea by compounds was indicated by increased RBC lysis when urea or acetamide loaded RBCs were rapidly diluted into PBS see . Conditions were optimized to give a robust assay for high throughput screening that exhibited high sensitivity and a low false positive rate. Absorbance at 710 nm was measured as a read out of RBC lysis to minimize interference by test compounds and hemoglobin.

Screening of compounds for UT B inhibitory activity in the RBC lysis assay was performed using a BECKMAN COULTER Fullerton Calif. integrated system that included a 3 meter robotic arm microplate carousel liquid handling work station with parallel 96 well solution mixing and transfer BIOMEK FX plate sealer and two fluorescence plate readers FLUOstar Optima BMG LABTECH Gmbh Durham N.C. each equipped with a 710 5 nm absorption filter CHROMA Rockingham Vt. . Chemicals were purchased from SIGMA ALDRICH St. Louis Mo. unless otherwise noted.

Human venous blood obtained from a single donor was collected into VACUTAINERS coated with sodium heparin BECTON DICKINSON Franklin Lakes N.J. stored at 4 C. and used within 48 hr of collection. All human procedures were approved by the University of California San Francisco Committee on Human Research. Whole mouse blood was collected from 8 12 week old 25 35 g wild type AQP1 null Ma et al. 273 4296 99 1998 or UT B null Yang et al. 277 10633 37 2002 mice in a CD1 genetic background by orbital puncture following subcutaneous injection with sodium heparin 150 USP units . All animal protocols were approved by the University of California San Francisco Committee on Animal Research.

Inhibition of UT B mediated transport of urea by compounds was indicated by increased RBC lysis when urea or acetamide loaded RBCs were rapidly diluted into PBS see . Conditions were optimized to give a robust assay for high throughput screening that exhibited high sensitivity and a low false positive rate. Absorbance at 710 nm was measured as a read out of RBC lysis to minimize interference by test compounds and hemoglobin. Urea and a panel of small urea like solutes e.g. formamide N methylurea acetamide propionamide butyramide and isobutyramide were evaluated as the loading solute based on their transport kinetics and passage through UT B. Acetamide was selected because its equilibration in RBCs was approximately 2 fold slower than water which is optimal in an osmotic lysis assay and because greater than 95 of its transport in RBCs is UT B dependent as determined by stopped flow light scattering.

The acetamide loading concentration that is optimal for identifying UT B inhibitors was determined. shows RBC lysis determined by absorbance at 710 nm O.D. as a function of the acetamide concentration used to load RBCs prior to mixing with acetamide free buffer. Greater lysis which is indicated by reduced O.D. was observed with increasing acetamide concentration. Fifty percent lysis was observed at approximately 1.6 M acetamide under control conditions open circles and at approximately 1.1 M when UT B facilitated acetamide transport was inhibited by phloretin filled circles . To distinguish between control vs. inhibited UT B a concentration of 1.25 M acetamide dashed vertical line was chosen for the assay. Other technical considerations that were addressed during assay optimization included maintenance of RBC viability and uniform suspension mixing conditions rates volumes and pipette tip locations in wells and incubation time temperature. The goodness of the optimized assay was evaluated by screening a series of plates containing positive and negative controls 100 and 0 lysis respectively which gave a very good statistical z factor of 0.57 for the screen see .

A primary screening for UT B inhibitors was performed using a collection of 50 000 diverse drug like compounds 90 with molecular size of 250 500 Da obtained from a commercial source CHEMDIV Inc. San Diego Calif. . 96 well plates containing four compounds per well each at 2.5 mM were prepared for screening and then stored frozen in DMSO until use. Plates containing one compound per well at 10 mM in DMSO were stored separately and used later to identify and characterize individual active compounds.

Whole human blood was collected see Example 1 and then prior to performance of the assay was diluted to a hematocrit of 1 in hyperosmolar PBS containing 1.25 M acetamide and 5 mM glucose 1550 mOsm measured using freezing point depression osmometry PRECISION SYSTEMS Natick Mass. . Identical assay results were obtained when washed centrifuged RBCs were used instead of whole blood. RBC suspensions were maintained at room temperature for up to 2 hr by periodic pipette mixing. Ninety nine L from a reservoir containing the RBC suspension was added to each well of a 96 well round bottom microplate FALCON BECTON DICKINSON to which test compounds were added 1 L 25 M final compound concentration 1 final DMSO concentration . After 6 min incubation 20 L of the RBC suspension was added rapidly to each well of a 96 well black walled plate COSTAR Corning N.Y. containing 180 L isosmolar buffer PBS containing 1 DMSO in each well. Vigorous mixing was achieved by repeated pipetting.

RBC lysis was quantified from a single time point measurement of absorbance at 710 nm wavelength Mazeron et al. 72 172 78 2000 Cohn et al. 132 27 34 2003 made within 5 min after hyposmolar shock. Absorbance values were stable for at least 1 hr. Each assay plate contained eight negative no lysis controls isotonic buffer PBS 1.25 M acetamide with 1 DMSO and eight positive full lysis controls distilled HO with 1 DMSO that were mixed with DMSO vehicle treated blood.

The statistical z factor indicating goodness of the assay Oldenburg et al. eds. New York N.Y. Marcel Dekkar Inc. 549 554 2001 was computed using data from test plates as defined by z 1 3 SD SD A A where SDand Aare the standard deviations and mean absorbance values for positive pos and negative neg controls. The percentage of RBC lysis in each test well of a given plate was calculated using control values from the same plate as follows lysis 100 A A A A where Ais the absorbance value from a test well. During assay optimization some test wells were incubated with the non specific UT B inhibitor phloretin 0.7 mM dissolved at 100 in DMSO stock solution as an additional positive control.

RBC urea and water permeabilities were assayed by stopped flow light scattering using a Hi Tech Sf 51 instrument Wiltshire UK . For measurement of urea permeability dilutions of whole blood human or mouse see Example 1 in PBS hematocrit approximately 0.5 were incubated with test compounds for 5 min and then subjected to a 250 mM inwardly directed gradient of urea. After an initial osmotic shrinking phase the kinetics of increasing cell volume caused by urea influx were measured as the time course of 90 scattered light intensity at 530 nm with increasing cell volume resulting in reduced scattered light intensity. As a positive control 0.7 mM phloretin was added to the RBC suspension prior to stopped flow experiments. Measurements of water permeability were carried out similarly with sucrose cell impermeant used instead of urea to establish a 250 mM osmotic gradient. As a positive control HgCl 0.3 mM was added to the RBC suspension prior to stopped flow measurements. Osmotic water permeability coefficients P were computed from light scattering data as described van Hoek et al. 267 18267 69 1992 .

After repeating the 96 well plate RBC lysis assay to confirm compound activity see Example 2 bona fide urea transport inhibition was determined by stopped flow light scattering from the kinetics of urea influx RBC swelling in response to an inwardly directed urea gradient. Rapid mixing of an RBC suspension with a hyperosmolar solution containing excess 250 mM urea produced rapid cell shrinking due to osmotic water efflux followed by cell swelling as urea and water influx occurred.

Thirty two compounds in four distinct chemical structural classes phenylsulfoxyoxazole and including phenylsulfoxyimidazoles benzenesulfonanilide phthalazinamine and aminobenzimidazole were identified that at 5 M produced substantial inhibition greater than 95 of UT B facilitated urea transport. Other compounds that exhibited either much lower or no activity in the stopped flow assay probably had apparent UT B inhibitory activity in the primary screen in part due to RBC toxicity and consequent increased lysis. Original stopped flow urea transport data for one representative compound at 5 M of each class is shown in . Tracings from control no inhibitors and phloretin treated RBCs are provided for comparison. The new compounds at 5 M inhibited UT B facilitated urea transport in human RBCs by greater than 95 which was as good as or better than that with 0.7 mM phloretin. shows that none of the UT B inhibitors when tested at an even higher concentration of 25 M inhibited RBC osmotic water permeability as measured by cell shrinking in response to a sucrose gradient. Curves from negative control no inhibitor and positive control HgClwater transport inhibitor are provided for comparison.

The activity of approximately 700 commercially available analogs CHEMDIV Inc. and Asinex Moscow Russia of active compounds from the four distinct chemical structural classes phenylsulfoxyoxazole and including phenylsulfoxyimidazoles benzenesulfonanilide phthalazinamine and aminobenzimidazole identified in the primary screen was determined to establish structure activity relationships SAR and potentially to identify compounds with improved UT B inhibitory potency. These compounds were tested against human and mouse UT B using the RBC lysis assay. For some of the more active compounds dose response experiments were performed using human and or mouse blood in the lysis assay. ECwas calculated by non linear regression to the equation lysis lysis lysis inh EC inh where inh is inhibitor concentration and H is the Hill coefficient.

The analogs were screened at 25 M. Concentration inhibition data were obtained for those compounds producing greater than 75 apparent UT B inhibition by the RBC lysis assay. shows the chemical structures of potent compounds from each of the phenylsulfoxyoxazole benzenesulfonanilide phthalazinamine and aminobenzimidazole classes. These structures are unrelated to either phloretin or urea analog inhibitors. shows concentration inhibition data with apparent ECvalues in nM for exemplary compounds urea 101 30 nM urea 201 300 nM urea 302 100 nM and urea 404 400 nM.

To determine ECvalues for urea transport inhibition directly RBC urea transport was measured by stopped flow light scattering using a non saturating concentration of extracellular urea to avoid possible competition effects . ECfor inhibition of RBC urea transport was determined independently by comparing stopped flow light scattering curves to a model of cell shrinking swelling.

For stopped flow experiments a 100 mM gradient of urea for human RBCs or N methylurea for mouse RBCs was used to minimize competition effects apparent urea and N methylurea affinities at 23 C. are approximately 200 and approximately 100 mM respectively Mayrand et al. 81 221 37 1983 . N methylurea with greater than 2 fold slower RBC permeability than urea was used in mouse studies to better resolve overlapping water and urea transport kinetics. Dose response data were also collected for human RBCs using a high concentration of 1 M urea to distinguish between competitive vs. non competitive inhibitor binding.

The two coupled differential equations describing water efflux and solute influx in response to externally added urea or methylurea were numerically integrated using the forward Euler method t 0.01 s to reproduce the biphasic changes in cell volume observed experimentally. Computations that were performed using the smaller time step t 0.001 s gave similar results confirming the adequacy of the 0.01 s time step. Water flux J in cm s across erythrocyte membranes is represented by the following equation J P S v I I i U U i solute flux J in mol s is represented by the following equation P S U U i . Permeability coefficients Pand P are expressed in units of cm s cell surface area S in cm extracellular e and cellular c concentrations of impermeant I and urea methylurea U solute in mol cm and vis 18 mol cm. Initial conditions were I I 0 2.9 10mol cm U 10mol cm and U 0 0. For each time step a new cell volume normalized to the initial size V i 1 V 0 and a new cell permeant concentration U i 1 were calculated from V i 1 V 0 V i V 0 t P S V 0 v I 1 V i V 0 U U i and U i 1 U i V 0 t U S V 0 v U U i . Normalized cell volume was assumed to be inversely proportional to scattered light intensity. The product of Pand the surface area to volume ratio S V 0 was determined to be 3.4 10sand 8.5 10sfor human and mouse erythrocytes respectively from water permeability measurements. Pwas varied to reproduce experimental data and ECwas computed using non linear regression see above of Pvs. inh data.

To determine the sidedness of inhibitor action compounds were added only to the urea containing solution at concentrations 2 times higher than their EC before mixing with RBCs in stopped flow measurements. To assay for reversibility compounds at concentrations 4 times higher than their EC were added to RBCs for 10 min and then washed by centrifugation prior to stopped flow measurements.

RBCs were exposed externally to urea 101 and urea 302 at final concentrations of 0.1 and 0.2 M respectively approximately 2 times their EC just at the time of stopped flow experiments inhibitor inclusion only in urea containing solution . Whereas urea 101 did not inhibit urea transport under these conditions suggesting an intracellular site of action urea 302 had a sizable effect see . The inhibition of urea permeability by externally added urea 302 was concentration dependent.

To test reversibility of inhibition RBCs were pre incubated with urea 101 or urea 302 for 10 min at 0.1 and 0.4 M respectively which resulted in greater than 95 transport inhibition. After the RBCs were washed urea transport was identical to transport in RBCs that were not exposed to an inhibitor indicating fully reversible inhibition see .

UT B inhibitory potencies for the most active compounds having the structure I are summarized in Table 1.

Compounds identified included many phenylsulfoxyoxazoles but also included several phenylsulfoxyimidazoles urea 130 132 see Table 1 . In highly active compounds unsubstituted thioglycoamide was present as R1 urea 101 119 . Compounds with reduced activity often had amino groups such as mono dialkylated amines urea 120 123 n morpholino urea 124 125 and hexahydro 1 H azepine 1 yl urea 126 128 as R1. Compounds that comprise R1 as a thioglycoamide of a mono or dialkylated amide e.g. SCH CO NHR or SCH CO NR when R was a phenyl group or bulky aliphatic group were inactive. The compounds with the lowest ECvalues EC

To identify UT B inhibitors that would be useful for studies in mouse models the inhibitors of human UT B were screened for activity against mouse UT B in the RBC lysis assay performed essentially as described in Example 1. Whereas many phenylsulfoxyoxazole compounds and phthalazinamine compounds that were highly active against human UT B were active against mouse UT B in the RBC lysis assay none of the benzenesulfonanilide or aminobenzimidazole compounds were active against mouse UT B in the RBC lysis assay at concentrations as high as 25 M. The amino acid sequences of human UT B and murine UT B exhibit approximately 85 sequence identity Yang et al. supra . Similar UT B inhibitory potencies were measured in assays using mouse RBCs and in assays using rat RBCs which was not unexpected in view of the closely related amino acid sequences of murine and rat UT B.

ECvalues for the most potent compounds that exhibited activity in the mouse RBC lysis assay were determined by stopped flow light scattering see Example 3 . Representative curves for two UT B inhibitors urea 101 and urea 302 are shown in . For these studies using mouse RBCs methylurea was used as the transported solute instead of urea because its transport is slower allowing better estimation of ECvalues. Concentration inhibition data indicated that the most potent phenylsulfoxyoxazole compounds and phthalazinamine compounds had an ECof approximately 200 nM for mouse UT B. These compounds when tested at 25 M did not affect urea transport in RBCs from UT B null mice.

Concentration inhibition studies were performed to study the effect of the active mouse UT B inhibitors on urea transport by UT A. The amino acid sequences of UT B and UT A urea transporter isoforms share significant similarity. The cells used in these studies were MDCK cells that expressed rat UT A1. MDCK UT A1 expressing cells were grown on collagen coated porous filters until they were electrically tight at which point 15 mM urea was introduced into buffer bathing the basolateral cell surface.

MDCK cells stably transfected with rat UT A1 MDCK UT A1 Fr hlich et al. . in press Fr hlich et al. 286 C1264 70 2004 . Epub on Jan. 28 2004 were generously provided by Dr. Jeffrey Sands Emory University School of Medicine Atlanta Ga. . Cells were grown in Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium DMEM with bicarbonate and supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS 25 mM HEPES buffer penicillin G 100 U mL streptomycin 100 g mL and hygromycin 500 g mL . For determining urea flux cells were grown on 12 mm collagen coated TRANSWELL inserts 0.4 m pore size COSTAR as described Fr hlich et al. . in press Fr hlich et al. 2004 supra . The TRANSWELL inserts were incubated in hygromycin free medium for 1 hr in a 5 COtissue culture incubator 37 C. and then 2 10cells cmwere loaded onto each insert. Cells were used after culturing the cells for 4 days in hygromycin free medium at which time they formed tight monolayers transepithelial resistance 500 600 cm .

UT A1 facilitated urea flux in the basolateral to apical direction across unstimulated and forskolin stimulated MDCK UT A1 cell layers was measured in response to a 15 mM urea gradient. Experiments were carried out in 12 well plates in which PBS containing either DMSO vehicle or forskolin with or without UT B inhibitor added to both the apical facing 0.2 mL and basal facing 1 mL surfaces of cells on the porous filters. Cultures were incubated in the absence of urea for 30 min at 37 C. Then the basal facing solution was replaced with PBS containing same components with 15 mM urea. Five L samples of apical fluid were collected at specified times during incubation at 37 C. and urea concentration was determined using a commercial kit based on chromogenic urea complexation at 520 nm wavelength Quantichrom Urea Assay Kit BioAssay Systems Hayward Calif. . Forskolin 10 M with or without UT B transport inhibitors was added from 1000 DMSO stock solutions 0.2 final DMSO content . Inhibition of UT A1 mediated transport was defined as inhibition 100 A A A A . A and Awere averaged absorbance values at 520 nm for cultures treated with forskolin and forskolin phloretin respectively and Awere values from cultures treated with forskolin test compound.

This example describes chemical knock out of UT B by UT B inhibitors in RBCs and the effect on UT B facilitated water transport. Compounds urea 101 and urea 302 which have good inhibitory potencies against mouse UT B were used to test the hypothesis that UT B contains a pore that conducts water in response to an osmotic gradient. Osmotic water permeability was measured by stopped flow light scattering in RBCs from wild type and AQP1 null mice as shown in . Water permeability coefficients are summarized in . The UT B inhibitors phloretin urea 101 and urea 302 had little effect on water transport in RBCs from wild type mice as expected because AQP1 provides the principal route for water transport. Phloretin at 0.7 mM produced a small but significant reduction in Pthat was likely due to its non specific effects on membrane fluidity. AQP1 null RBCs had greater than 5 fold reduced Pcompared to wild type RBCs. As illustrated in urea 101 and urea 302 further inhibited water permeability in AQP1 null RBCs indicating that UT B facilitated water transport occurs in the cells.

From the foregoing although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the invention described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

