---

title: Mapping control inputs to vehicle-specific control outputs at a receiver
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for processing control inputs at a receiver for one or more servos coupled to a vehicle. A signal containing a plurality of control inputs generated in response to an activation of at least one control element on a transmitter is received at a receiver mounted on a vehicle. The plurality of control inputs is mapped to a vehicle-specific set of servo control signals at the receiver using operations such as reversing, shifting, scaling, delaying, and mixing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07831351&OS=07831351&RS=07831351
owner: Castle Creations, Inc.
number: 07831351
owner_city: Olathe
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070427
---
Historically receivers coupled to a remote controlled vehicle simply receive remote control signals from a transmitter and output the remote control signals directly to one or more servos coupled to the remote controlled vehicle. More sophisticated receivers are able to filter the remote control signals for example in order to remove glitches that are typically caused by weak signal strength. Some of those receivers are also equipped with a type of fail safe feature that typically generates default control signals for adjusting to a pre selected motion and or speed when some or all of the remote control signals are no longer intelligible. In general however most intelligent and complex operations involved in generating remote control signals for remote controlled vehicles are performed at transmitters.

Currently available transmitters for remote controlled vehicles range from very basic and inexpensive transmitters to very complex and expensive transmitters. Basic transmitters simply generate control inputs based on one or more control elements e.g. dial knob control stick generate remote control signals containing the control inputs and transmit the remote control signals to a receiver. More sophisticated transmitters typically have multiple vehicle model memories to store several sets of control input setup information for multiple vehicles. Users of the sophisticated transmitters however sometimes switch the transmitters to an incorrect vehicle model memory thereby causing serious damage or even a total destruction of a remote controlled vehicle that they attempt to control. For instance a user may crash a model helicopter if the user attempts to fly it using a transmitter that is incorrectly switched to a vehicle memory for a model speed boat. Users also often have difficulty programming the vehicle memories with different setup information through a typically small display area and or keypad on the transmitters.

The present invention is defined by the claims below not this summary. Embodiments of the present invention provide a system method and product for among other things mapping control inputs from a transmitter to vehicle specific servo control signals at a receiver. The present invention has several practical applications in the technical arts including allowing users to control many different types of vehicles from a simple and inexpensive transmitter and providing a more user friendly programming interface to configure a receiver for mapping control inputs to servo control signals.

In a first aspect an exemplary embodiment of the present invention relates to a method for processing control inputs at a receiver for one or more servos coupled to a vehicle. A signal containing a plurality of control inputs from a transmitter is received at a receiver mounted on a vehicle. The plurality of control inputs is mapped to a vehicle specific set of servo signals at the receiver.

In another aspect an exemplary embodiment of the present invention relates to a system for processing control inputs at a receiver for one or more servos coupled to a vehicle. The system includes a transmitter and a receiver. The transmitter is configured to transmit a signal containing a plurality of control inputs wherein the plurality of control inputs is generated based on at least one control element on the transmitter. The receiver mounted on a vehicle having one or more servos is configured to map the control inputs to a set of servo control signals specific to the vehicle wherein the receiver receives and recovers the control inputs.

In yet another aspect an exemplary embodiment of the present invention relates to a receiver for processing control inputs for one or more servos coupled to a vehicle. The receiver includes a communication interface and a control module. The communication interface is configured to receive an input signal containing a plurality of control inputs from a transmitter. The control module is configured to map the plurality of control inputs to a vehicle specific set of servo control signals.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for mapping control inputs generated at a transmitter to servo control signals by mixing reversing shifting scaling and delaying the control inputs at a receiver.

While the type of vehicle described in detail herein is a model vehicle one skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be implemented with other types of vehicles equipped with a receiver and remotely controllable servos. Likewise one skilled in the art will appreciate that while a personal computer is described herein as an example for programming a receiver the present invention may be implemented with other types of computing devices that can communicate with a receiver and run a software application to configure the receiver.

Although the type of network and server described in detail herein are the Internet and a web server for downloading software for the receiver one skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may be implemented with other types of networks and servers.

Throughout the description of the present invention several acronyms and shorthand notations are used to aid the understanding of certain concepts pertaining to the associated system and services. These acronyms and shorthand notations are solely intended for the purpose of providing an easy methodology of communicating the ideas expressed herein and are in no way meant to limit the scope of the present invention. The following is a list of these acronyms 

As one skilled in the art will appreciate embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as among other things a method system or computer readable medium. Accordingly the embodiments may take the form of a hardware embodiment a software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware. In one embodiment the present invention takes the form of one or more computer readable media that include computer useable instructions embodied thereon.

Computer readable media include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and nonremovable media and contemplate media readable by a database a computer and various other computing devices. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communications media.

Computer storage media or machine readable media include media implemented in any method or technology for storing information. Examples of stored information include computer useable instructions data structures program modules and other data representations. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD holographic media or other optical disc storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage and other magnetic storage devices. These memory components can store data momentarily temporarily or permanently.

Communications media typically store computer useable instructions including data structures and program modules in a modulated data signal. The term modulated data signal refers to a propagated signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed to encode information in the signal. An exemplary modulated data signal includes a carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communications media include any information delivery media. By way of example but not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic infrared radio microwave spread spectrum and other wireless media technologies. Combinations of the above are included within the scope of computer readable media.

The subject matter of the present invention is described with specificity herein to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include steps or combinations of steps similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the terms step and or block may be used herein to connote different elements of methods employed the terms should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed.

Turning now to an exemplary system environment suitable for use in implementing embodiments of the present invention is provided and referenced generally by the numeral . is illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting the present invention as with all of the figures herein. It should be understood that this and other arrangements described herein are set forth only as examples. Other arrangements and elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used in addition to or instead of those shown and some elements may be omitted altogether. Further many of the elements described herein are functional entities that may be implemented with other components and in any suitable combination and location. Various functions described herein as being performed by one or more entities may be carried out by hardware firmware and or software. For instance some functions may be carried out by a processor executing instructions stored in memory.

As shown in system environment may include among other components a transmitter a vehicle a receiver a control module a set of servos A B a set of communication interfaces A B a computer a display device a software application a network and a server .

The transmitter may be any of a wide variety of digital or analog transmitters and more specifically radio signal transmitters that are known in the art. For example the transmitter may be a simple inexpensive transmitter or it may be a more sophisticated transmitter having multiple vehicle memories for controlling multiple vehicles. The transmitter also typically has a power source that provides power for transmission of signals. The transmitter may support a varying number of channels for transmitting control inputs.

The transmitter typically has a set of control elements comprising one or more of a control stick a trigger a switch and a dial knob. In general the transmitter generates control inputs based on one or more control elements thereon modulates the control inputs and transmits the modulated control inputs to the receiver . The transmitter may use any of the modulation techniques known in the art. Typically either pulse code modulation PCM or pulse period modulation PPM is employed for remote controlled model vehicles.

The vehicle may be any vehicle having the receiver and the servos A B coupled thereto. Although remote controlled model vehicles are used to illustrate an exemplary system environment and methods the vehicle may be any vehicle that is equipped to receive control inputs and operate in accordance with the control inputs. For instance the vehicle may be an unmanned military vehicle such as a reconnaissance bomber drone a satellite floating above the earth a space craft or a robot. The vehicle may be a model vehicle such as a car a truck a helicopter a sailboat a motor boat a ship an airplane a submarine etc.

The receiver may be any of a wide variety of digital or analog receivers that are known in the art. The receiver is typically mounted on the vehicle . In general the receiver receives a signal containing control inputs from the transmitter recovers the control inputs maps the control inputs to a vehicle specific set of servo control signals and communicates the vehicle specific servo control signals to the servos A B. The receiver may use any of the demodulation techniques known in the art.

The receiver may include the control module that may be configured to map the control inputs to the vehicle specific servo control signals. The receiver may also include the communication interface A that can be used to connect to the computer . The receiver may also have a set of servo control signal output ports that is connected to the servos A B.

The control module is in general communicatively coupled to the receiver . Alternatively the control module may be integrated with the receiver . The control module may comprise a special circuitry running a specially designed firmware. It may comprise a general signal processing circuitry running a proprietary software module. It may also comprise a software module designed to perform a set of complex mathematical operations on data passed from the receiver .

Typically the control module receives control inputs from the receiver and maps the control inputs to a set of vehicle specific servo control signals. The control module may output the vehicle specific servo control signals directly to the servo control signal output ports. It may also pass the vehicle specific servo control signals to the receiver for transmission thereof to the servos A B. The control module may have a communication interface such as the communication interface A to communicate with the computer . The control module may also communicate with the computer through the communication interface A of the receiver .

Typically the servos A B are electric motors that use electrical energy to create mechanical force. In general the servos A B provide angular outputs although linear outputs are not uncommon. For example the servos A B may be connected to a reduction gearbox to drive various mechanical parts. The servos A B are driven until a position and or speed commanded by servo control signals generated at the receiver or the control module are attained. Even though only two servos are shown in the vehicle may have any number of servos. For example a sophisticated unmanned military drone may have many tens of servos and a less sophisticated model vehicle may only have one or two servos.

Applications for the servos A B abound. By way of example and not limitation the servos A B may be used to control main rotors cyclic controls pitch and roll and tail rotors yaw of model helicopters. The servos A B may be used to control ailerons elevators motor speed rudder landing gears and flaps of model airplanes. They may be used to control motor speed and steering gear or rudder of a land vehicle or a boat respectively.

Typically the communication interfaces A B are USB interfaces. However they may also be serial interfaces parallel interfaces IEEE 1394 interfaces and the like. In general the communication interfaces A B are located on the receiver and the computing device respectively. Alternatively however the communication interface A may be located on the control module .

Typically the computer is a general purpose computer e.g. personal computer running a common operating system e.g. Microsoft Windows Mac OS or a Linux operating system that provides a graphical user interface for a user friendly environment and a network interface e.g. TCP IP interface for communication through a network e.g. the Internet . In general no distinction is made herein between such categories as workstation server or laptop. The computer may also support an output device such as the display device and a communication interface such as the communication interface B.

The computer may be however other types of computing devices that can communicate with the receiver or the control module support the display device and a network interface and run the software application . Such other types of computing devices may include a PDA a SmartPhone a wireless mobile phone and any other device having a bus that directly or indirectly couples memory one or more processors input output ports input output components and a power supply.

The computer may run the software application through which a user can program or configure the receiver or the control module . The display device may be communicatively connected to the computer . Alternatively the display device may be attached to the computer as in a laptop computer.

The computer may also connect to the network e.g. the Internet and download an update module for the software application or an upgraded version thereof from the server e.g. web server on the network . Typically the downloaded update module for the software application or the upgrade version thereof is installed directly on the receiver or the control module from the computer . The upgrade version of and or updated module for the software application may be also installed through the software application .

In general the software application is a proprietary software program that establishes communication with the receiver or the control module through the communications interfaces A B and provides a user friendly interface e.g. a graphical user interface for programming the receiver or the control module . For example a dialog window can be provided for users to program specific mapping equations and or adjustment values for scaling or shifting operations.

The software application may also take the form of a class or function library e.g. a dynamic link library a Java package or a set of application programming interfaces APIs e.g. Unix system call library . Users can write a program or a script that links to the function library and calls the functions provided by the function library to program the receiver or the control module .

Turning to a flow diagram is used to show an exemplary method for generating a signal containing control inputs. At block control inputs are generated at the transmitter . In some embodiments the control inputs are generated based on at least one control element on the transmitter .

At block a carrier signal is modulated with the control inputs at the transmitter for transmission. A variety of digital and analog modulation techniques such as amplitude modulation AM frequency modulation FM phase modulation PM phase shift keying modulation PSK frequency shift keying modulation FSK pulse code modulation PCM pulse period modulation PPM spread spectrum to name a few and the like are known in the art and any of them or any combination may be employed to modulate the signal carrying the control inputs. At block the modulated signal containing the control inputs is transmitted to the receiver from the transmitter .

An example is provided below to illustrate the method above. Suppose a user flying a model airplane wishes to increase the cruising speed of the model. The user pushes the throttle control stick forward. The generated set of control inputs now has a different value for the channel associated with the throttle control stick. The transmitter then modulates a carrier signal with the set of control inputs and transmits the signal to the model airplane.

Turning to a flow diagram is used to show an exemplary method for processing control inputs at a receiver. At block a signal containing control inputs is received at the receiver . At block a vehicle specific set of servo control signals is generated. In some embodiments the receiver maps the input controls to the vehicle specific set of servo control signals. In some other embodiments the control module coupled to the receiver is entrusted with the task.

At block the vehicle specific servo control signals are communicated to the servos A B. In some embodiments the receiver communicates the vehicle specific servo control signals through a set of corresponding servo control output ports. In some embodiments in which the control module maps the control inputs to the vehicle specific set of servo control signals the control module directly transmits the vehicle specific servo control signals to the servos A B.

Continuing from the model airplane example above a receiver mounted on the model airplane receives the carrier signal containing the set of control inputs and maps the set of control inputs to a set of servo control signals specific to the model airplane. The receiver then communicates the servo control signals to the servos in the model airplane. The electronic speed control ESC that controls the propeller of the model airplane receives the control input generated by the throttle control stick on the transmitter and increases the rate at which it turns the propeller. The values that control the other control servos such as elevator and rudder have the same setting as before the change and so the airplane maintains the same attitude. The model airplane maintains the course and the new speed until the user further changes the control elements on the transmitter to change the course and or the speed of the model airplane.

Turning to a flow diagram is used to show an exemplary method for generating servo control signals. At block the receiver receives a signal containing control inputs from the transmitter . At block the receiver recovers the control inputs. At block the recovered control inputs are cached. In some embodiments the receiver caches the control inputs in a buffer memory. In some other embodiments the control module caches the control inputs in a cache memory. In some embodiments the control inputs are analog pulses in which case the receiver may need to sample the analog control inputs to convert them to digital pulses at block . If the control inputs are not analog pulses however block may not be utilized.

At block the control inputs are mapped to a vehicle specific set of servo control outputs. In some embodiments the receiver maps the control inputs to the servo control outputs. In some other embodiments the control module performs the task of mapping the control inputs to the servo control outputs. Typically mapping involves shifting reversing delaying and or scaling one or more control inputs or mixing two or more of the control inputs to generate one or more servo control outputs. Also two or more control inputs that are shifted reversed scaled and or delayed may be mixed to generate one or more servo control outputs. Methods for reversing scaling shifting delaying and mixing control inputs are further illustrated and defined here and also below in conjunction with .

Still with regard to at the control inputs are mapped to control outputs. In a common servo control example values are contained in a repeating communication frame of 8 parameters that nominally range from 1 to 2 milliseconds ms having a frame repetition rate of 50 Hertz Hz . Further examples and definitions of terms will be made with respect to these conventional intervals. The use of the illustrated mapping systems and methods to map other servo control values and to employ other communication methods are anticipated and within the scope of application intended. For example other embodiments make use of a repeating frame each having 2 to 14 control inputs. Still other embodiments have more than 14 control inputs per frame. Some embodiments have pulse widths that vary between 0.8 and 2.2 ms. Some embodiments have a frame repetition rate of 25 Hz. Some embodiments have a frame repetition rate of 75 Hz.

There are defined herein some variables that are helpful for illustrating exemplary mapping methods by way of equations that could be used in of . Exemplary control input values within a frame may be denoted in in in in in in in and in respectively. These control inputs may be first converted into a number of internal values within a frame that may be denoted inter inter inter inter inter inter inter and inter. The output control values within a frame may be denoted out out out out out out out and out. Output control values may be defined in terms of either past or present internal values or past or present input control values or past output control values so that mapping operations may be chained or combined. A number of static parameters that could be used within a mapping are defined and indicated below by all capital letters. Exemplary static parameters include OFFSET OFFSET SCALE SCALE VECTORSCALE MAX MAX MIN MIN DELAY DELAY and MAXCHANGE. In light of these definitions several mappings are illustrated below.

An offset mapping also known as Trim or Sub Trim in the art is the mapping of an input to an output through the addition or subtraction of a static parameter OFFSET. It may be implemented simply by the following equation out1 in1 OFFSET1

Reverse is a mapping that translates small values into large values and large values into small values. A typical equation to implement the reverse mapping for channel is as follows out2 1.5 in2

Scale also known in the art as End Point Adjust EPA is a mapping that translates an input into a scaled version of itself for output. A typical equation to implement scaling for channel is as follows out1 SCALE1 in1

Vector scale also known in the art as Expo Curve is a mapping of a control input through an array of scalar factors that are defined by the user so that the factor used varies with the input value. This may be expressed in equation form as follows Out1 int VECTORSCALE in1 

In some embodiments a user defines a curve by a series of ordered pairs of inputvalue outputvalue . Some of these embodiments interpolate to produce an interpolated output value that is between the output values corresponding to the two nearest input values for a given sample.

Range limiting is a mapping that imposes a maximum or minimum value or both on an input. Range limiting may for example be a simple minimum or a simple maximum implemented for channel by the following equations inter2 max MIN2 in2 out2 min MAX2 inter2 

Mixing is a combination of two or more scaled input values to form a composite signal from the input values. The following equation shows how an output channel may be formed from a mix of input channels and . out1 SCALE1 in1 SCALE2 in2

The scale values SCALE and SCALE may for example be factors between 1 and 1. Mixes may be defined to combine any two channels through scaling factors. Any number of input channels may be mixed together to form a composite output. As an example of how mixing may be used to advantage in an application consider Elevon mixing. Elevon control combines the function of an elevator for pitch control with an aileron for roll control hence the name. If the roll channel is channel and the pitch channel is channel and the speed channel is channel then an Elevon mix may be represented by the following equations out1 0.5 in1 0.5 in out2 0.5 in1 0.5 in2 out3 in3

Here out produces the Right Elevon control and out produces the Left Elevon control. The speed input is simply tied to an electronic speed control ESC . In this example the scale factors are chosen to be 0.5 but the user has freedom to define these as desired. With this mix only two servos control both pitch and roll. By looking at the scaling factors we see that in this mix the pitch input in affects both servos equally while the roll input in affects the right servo in the opposite way to the left servo.

Response rate is a mapping that limits the maximum change in output that may be applied to a control output. To apply this mapping the prior value for an output is stored. This mapping may be applied by the set of equations out1 min in1 MAXCHANGE1 out1 1 for a non negative change out1 max in1 out1 1 MAXCHANGE1 for a negative change.

Where out i represents the output value for the first output of the ith frame and in i represents the input for channel in the ith frame and out i 1 represents the output value for first output in the i 1 st frame. This mapping may be used to advantage for example to slow the speed of deployment of landing gear and thus to decrease mechanical stress on hardware.

Delay is a mapping that applies an input to create a corresponding output after a programmable delay period. For binary control signals this could be implemented by a counter. For analog control signals this function may be implemented by a programmable buffer. The programmable delay may be used to advantage when the two servos are controlled that open bay doors or deploy landing gear. Rather than have these two functions independently controlled the deployment of landing gear could be tied to the control that opens the bay doors but after a suitable delay.

In some embodiments the servos A B require analog control signals. In such embodiments the servo control signals are reconstructed from the servo control outputs at block . For instance a digital to analog converter DAC may be used to perform the task of reconstruction. Block however may not be utilized if the servos A B do not require analog control inputs. As those skilled in the art will appreciate the servo control may be a mix of analog and digital. The control signal may be a PWM signal with rising edges repeating at approximately 50 Hz. The high time represents the desired position speed. Typically the minimum of the control is 1 ms and the maximum is 2 ms.

Turning now to there is depicted therein a flow diagram of a particular embodiment of a method for converting a frame of inputs to a frame of outputs. This conversion process is one embodiment of operations performed at of . The method begins at when a new frame of input control values is at least partially received. At an offset is applied to each channel which has had an offset defined for it. A single input channel is selected for processing and a number of mappings are performed to this input channel in . The method determines at whether or not a mix has been defined for this particular channel and if so the mix is performed to produce an internal signal. At a check is made to see if a reverse has been defined for the present input and if so it is applied to the input to produce another internal signal. If there is a scale defined for the present channel it is applied at . At it is determined whether or not all of the input channels have been processed as required by the defined mapping. If input channels still remain to be processed then the method returns to to select an additional input channel. Otherwise all input channels have been processed and so the method proceeds to where an output is selected for processing. At the signals necessary to produce the selected out are looked up. The signals that are looked up may be either inputs internal signals or prior outputs. At an Expo Curve or vector scale is applied if this operation is indicated for the selected output. An output offset is applied at if defined. At range limits are applied. A delay is applied at if the present output has this operation enabled. At a maximum response rate is applied if one is defined for the selected output. It is determined at whether or not all of the output channels have been produced as required by the defined mapping. If output channels still remain to be produced then the method returns to to select an additional output channel. Otherwise all input channels have been produced and so the method of processing the present frame terminates at .

An example is provided below to illustrate how servo control signals are generated in response to control inputs generated at a transmitter. Suppose a user has a basic analog transmitter that supports transmission channels of only four control inputs but has a model airplane that has eight servos to control the main propeller one rudder two ailerons two elevators and two landing gears. The user can fly the model airplane by programming a control module coupled to the receiver mounted on the model airplane to map the four control inputs to eight servo control signals. For instance the user can map the roll input to the two ailerons reversing one will likely be necessary the pitch input to the two elevators the roll input to the rudder and the throttle input to the ESC controlling the main propeller. Now to control the landing gear the user can map a delay signal such that 20 seconds after throttle up the landing gear will retract sufficiently after takeoff and 2 seconds after throttle down the landing gear will engage in preparation for landing. Although this is not the best setup for a plane with landing gear it simplifies the procedure and allows a user with an inexpensive radio to completely control his her aircraft.

Turning to a flow diagram is used to show an exemplary method for programming a receiver. At block the receiver is connected to the computer through the communications interfaces A B. In some embodiments the computer is connected to the receiver through a USB cable. In some other embodiments they are connected through a serial or parallel cable. At block the software application is started. Typically the receiver is automatically switched to a maintenance mode when the receiver is connected to the computer at block . In some embodiments however the receiver remains in an operational mode until it is switched to the maintenance mode. In such embodiments it is determined whether the receiver is in the maintenance mode at block . If it is determined that the receiver is not switched to the maintenance mode yet the receiver is switched to the maintenance mode at block . In some embodiments the software application detects that the receiver is not in a maintenance mode and switches it to the maintenance mode.

At block a desired maintenance activity is selected. In some embodiments a user is given a menu list of available maintenance activities such as configuration of the receiver or the control module and installation of an update software module e.g. update patch or service package for the software or firmware run by the receiver and or the control module and or upgrade version thereof.

At block it is determined whether the task of programming the receiver is selected. If a programming task is selected the receiver or the control module is programmed or reconfigured at block . For instance a user can change current settings for mapping control inputs to vehicle specific servo control signals through a dialog window.

If however it is determined that the task of installing an update module for and or upgrade version of the software or firmware run by the receiver is selected at block such update module for and or upgrade version of the software or firmware is downloaded first if not downloaded already at block . If the software has been downloaded already block may not be utilized. At block the downloaded software is installed on the receiver or the control module .

An example is provided below to illustrate the method above. Returning to the model airplane example above after landing the model airplane a number of times the user realizes that the landing gears deploy too late. The last time the user landed the model airplane the plane almost hit the ground before the landing gears were completely deployed. The user connects the receiver mounted on the model airplane to her laptop using a USB cable. The user has previously installed software application that provides a graphical user interface for programming the receiver on the laptop using a CD ROM that came with the receiver. The user starts the application software. The application software quickly establishes communication with the receiver and presents a menu listing activities to choose from. The user selects Configure the Receiver option from the menu and the application software brings up a dialog window displaying the current settings of the model airplane. The user changes the delay factor related to deploying the landing gears such that the delay for deploying the landing gears will be shorter.

As can be seen the present invention and its equivalents are well adapted to provide a new and useful method for 1 mapping control inputs from a transmitter to a set of servo control signals at a receiver thereby allowing users to control multiple types of vehicles from a simple inexpensive transmitter and 2 providing a user friendly programming interface to program a receiver for mapping control inputs to servo control signals for different vehicles.

Many different arrangements of the various components depicted as well as components not shown are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention have been described with the intent to be illustrative rather than restrictive. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art that do not depart from its scope. A skilled artisan may develop alternative means of implementing the aforementioned improvements without departing from the scope of the present invention.

It will be understood that certain features and subcombinations are of utility and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations and are contemplated within the scope of the claims. Not all steps listed in the various figures need be carried out or carried out at all in some instances in the specific order described.

