---

title: Memory system and related method using software-defined radio with write-protected, non-volatile memory
abstract: A software-defined radio includes a radio circuit and an executable radio software system operable with the radio circuit and conforming to the software communications architecture (SCA) specification and defining an operating environment that allows a waveform application to operate with the radio circuit for transmitting and receiving voice and data. A write-protected non-volatile memory is operable with the radio circuit and executable radio software system. The non-volatile memory has a write enable controlled by a non-driver program for deferring a wear leveling correction sequence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08074145&OS=08074145&RS=08074145
owner: Harris Corporation
number: 08074145
owner_city: Melbourne
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071112
---
The present invention relates to write protected lossy non volatile memory used in communications and memory systems and more particularly the present invention relates to communications and memory systems that use write protected NAND in a Software Defined Radio SDR .

Some multi band or other tactical radios operate in the high frequency HF very high frequency VHF for satellite communications and ultra high frequency UHF bands. The range of these multi band tactical radios can operate over about 2 through about 512 MHz frequency range. Next generation radios will probably cover about 2.0 to about 2 000 MHz or higher to accommodate high data rate waveforms and less crowded frequency bands. This high frequency transmit mode is governed by standards such as MIL STD 188 141B while data modulation demodulation is governed by standards such as MIL STD 188 110B the disclosures which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

UHF standards on the other hand provide different challenges over the 225 to about 512 MHz frequency range including short haul line of sight LOS communication and satellite communications SATCOM and cable. This type of propagation can be obtained through different weather conditions foliage and other obstacles making UHF SATCOM an indispensable communications medium for many agencies. Different directional antennas can be used to improve antenna gain and improve data rates on the transmit and receive links. This type of communication is typically governed in one example by MIL STD 188 181B the disclosure which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. This standard specifies a family of constant and non constant amplitude waveforms for use over satellite links.

The joint tactical radio system JTRS implements some of these standards and has different designs that use oscillators mixers switchers splitters combiners and power amplifier devices to cover different frequency ranges. The modulation schemes used for these types of systems can occupy a fixed bandwidth channel at a fixed carrier frequency or can be frequency hopped. These systems usually utilize memoryless modulations such as a phase shift keying PSK amplitude shift keying ASK frequency shift keying FSK quadrature amplitude modulation QAM or modulations with memory such as continuous phase modulation CPM and combine them with a convolutional or other type of forward error correction code. Standard waveforms are often used.

These different waveforms and equipment in the joint tactical radio system typically use a software defined radio SDR that follows the open architecture framework defined by the software communications architecture SCA which provides the framework for how the hardware and software in the software defined radio operate. The SCA is a key element of the JTRS and allows programmable radios to load waveforms run applications and network into an integrated system using a core framework as a standard operating environment that is implemented on every hardware radio. The same waveform software can be ported to all radio sets.

Some current software defined radios use a lossy non volatile storage medium such as NAND memory which relies on the ability to erase and rewrite a block when an error correction code ECC or soft failure occurs. This is necessary to prevent a non recoverable failure on a subsequent read. If the write enable pin of the storage medium for example the chip memory is disabled by a third party outside the control of the normally used driver the wear leveling correction sequence should be deferred. Therefore a technique is required to prevent data loss in these circumstances.

A software defined radio includes a radio circuit and an executable radio software system operable with the radio circuit and conforming to the software communications architecture SCA specification and defining an operating environment that allows a waveform application to operate with the radio circuit for transmitting and receiving voice and data. A write protected non volatile memory is operable with the radio circuit and executable radio software system and has a write enable controlled by a non driver program such that a wear leveling correction sequence is deferred.

The write protected non volatile memory can be formed as a NAND memory and include a write enable pin that is disabled by a third party outside the control of a driver used normally for wear leveling correction sequences.

In one aspect the radio circuit is operable as an internet protocol IP data radio. The radio can include a RAM a driver and a file system for reading transaction requests on pages and blocks. The file system and driver retrieve a block as a suspect block upon detection of an Error Correction Code ECC after a page read and copy the suspect block into RAM for fulfilling file requests. The radio includes a writable non volatile memory into which the suspect block is copied and later replaced after entering a write enable mode. An integrity assurance program erases the suspect block and replaces and erased data within the write protected non volatile memory from data within the writable non volatile memory. An ECC correction triggers a copyout routine in one aspect. A cyclic redundancy check CRC error detection can be provided.

Different embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments are shown. Many different forms can be set forth and described embodiments should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout and prime notation is used to indicate similar elements in alternative embodiments.

It should be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the approach to be described is not limited for use with any particular communication standard wireless or otherwise and can be adapted for use with numerous wireless or wired communications standards such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE General Packet Radio Service GPRS or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS extended data rate Bluetooth Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Wireless LAN WLAN Ultra Wideband UWB coaxial cable radar optical etc. Further the invention is not limited for use with a specific PHY or radio type but is applicable to other compatible technologies as well.

Throughout this description the term communications device is defined as any apparatus or mechanism adapted to transmit receive or transmit and receive data through a medium. The communications device may be adapted to communicate over any suitable medium such as RF wireless infrared optical wired microwave etc. In the case of wireless communications the communications device may comprise an RF transmitter RF receiver RF transceiver or any combination thereof. Wireless communication involves radio frequency communication microwave communication for example long range line of sight via highly directional antennas or short range communication and or infrared IR short range communication. Applications may involve point to point communication point to multipoint communication broadcasting cellular networks and other wireless networks.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art a method data processing system or computer program product can embody different examples in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention. Accordingly these portions may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore portions may be a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer readable program code on the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including but not limited to static and dynamic storage devices hard disks optical storage devices and magnetic storage devices.

The description as presented below can apply with reference to flowchart illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to an embodiment of the invention. It will be understood that blocks of the illustrations and combinations of blocks in the illustrations can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus implement the functions specified in the block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory result in an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Although the memory system method and device for example software defined radio as described can be operable in many different devices that use NAND technology but is especially applicable to software defined radios and similar equipment using internet protocol IP stacks in their main General Purpose Processor GPP and are required to control their NAND write with a security or performance application. It would also be applicable to any device using NAND or similar lossy medium whose write enable is controlled by a third party.

Software defined radios often use NAND as a medium for a flash memory. Although different NAND technologies are available typically NAND uses tunnel injection for writing and tunnel release for erasing. NAND memory is commonly termed flash memory and has a finite number of erase write cycles which could be offset by some chip firmware or file system drivers for counting the writes and dynamically remapping the blocks in order to spread the write operations between sectors using a technique called wear leveling correction. Sometimes the NAND systems perform write verification and remapping to spare sectors in case of a write failure using bad block management BBM techniques.

It is known that each read operation within a NAND flash block weakens the charge that maintains the data bits. As a result bits could be lost after numerous reads e.g. more than 100 000 reads in some instances. Weak blocks typically are marked for refresh before that read limit is reached however. In these instances the data could be copied from a new flash block to erase the weak block while the erase recharges the flash block. Some file systems also perform Error Correction Code ECC computations on all write and read operations to recover from single bit errors that may occur. ECC however does not typically work when many bits are damaged as a result of a power failure during a write operation. In this instance the file system typically should perform a Cyclic Redundancy Check CRC on each transaction to detect corrupted data. If an error is detected the file system can use the ECC error correction to recover the data to a new block and mark the weak block for erasing.

These systems incorporate dynamic wear leveling correction techniques that spread erase cycles evenly over the device to increase the life of a flash memory. Cell phones typically use this technology and wear leveling correction techniques.

Software defined radios however typically have security constraints. The normal wear leveling correction techniques common in cell phones are typically not possible. The write enabled pin of the chip typically is disabled by a third party outside the control of the driver. As a result the wear leveling correction sequence must be deferred. This occurs such as in some Falcon III software defined radios manufactured by Harris Corporation.

Some current solutions to this problem rely on the driver immediately enabling the write enable pin and initiating a wear leveling correction algorithm. These solutions require the write enable pin to be controlled by the medium driver and not a third party. Current implementations also require knowledge of the file system or its direct intervention. For example the Falcon III manpack MP radio uses NAND memory and an internet protocol IP data radio as a software defined radio. The current performance and security requirements dictate that the write enable be controlled by a non driver entity for security constraints creating problems with the wear leveling correction sequence which is deferred.

Current drivers used in some system typically are open source as provided by vendors. These drivers detect when wear leveling should occur. Unfortunately systems incorporating these drivers do not have a system for deferring the wear leveling correction sequence. These open source systems toggle the pin and control the write enable immediately if it is not already set. The entity that controls the driver also can toggle the pin in the prior art systems but this is not available in some advanced software defined radios as noted above since the third party controls these operations. Even if a write is attempted it will not occur. If it is not accomplished at some point the file system could become corrupted.

During the power cycle there could be two operations. All requests to that block could be serviced throughout the RAM copy. During the same power cycle there is an opportunity to reprogram and use the RAN copy. If the radio is started after it has been off the block that may have been placed into the other non volatile region can be taken into the drive initialization and placed into its proper place.

The system maintains a copy for quick access when the file system comes in and can be accomplished independent of the file system s knowledge. The file system appears to be talking to the hardware component and the file system will use the RAM copy for the remainder of the power cycle at that time. This prepares the file system for power loss or a power cycle so that it can recover that same information.

As shown in the flow sequence of a read transaction request can occur on a page in block X from the file system to the low level driver . The driver can issue a read to the NAND page and the NAND core read returns with an ECC correction to the low level driver . The ECC correction triggers a copy out routine from the low level driver to the NAND core . Block X is extracted into RAM and block X is also extracted into the writable non volatile memory . The read transaction request on the page in block X occurs from the file system to the low level driver which uses the RAM copy of block X to fulfill the file system requests. The integrity assurance application detects the saved block after entering a write enabled mode and ensures that the driver operation is stopped from the integrity assurance application to the low level driver . Block X is erased followed by replacing the erased data with a copy stored in the writable non volatile memory .

The system as described provides several advantages including but not limited to solving limits placed on the storage when it has been write enable controlled by a third party other than its driver such as used in software defined radios and NAND core technology. The system has the advantage of being invisible to the file system and does not require any knowledge of the file ID s tables or wear leveling algorithm. This solution also solves the potential corruption issue during run time and on subsequent power cycles. Deferment of heavy input output operations is also a major performance advantage during critical regions.

It should be understood that when the system fixes a block it is typically a computationally intensive period where the processor is devoted to reading out the pages storing information in RAM recalculating the ECC and replacing it. This creates a high processing burden and there are times when running an application is time critical and the system should not perform this maintenance as it happens. For example an aircraft could have its processing and telemetry systems working on time critical applications and communicating with a satellite and or ground stations. When failures occur on less critical systems the correction of these less critical systems can be deferred until a more reasonable time occurs.

For purposes of description relative to software defined radios some background information on coding interleaving and an exemplary wireless mobile radio communications system that includes ad hoc capability and can be modified for use is set forth. This example of a communications system that can be used and modified for use with the present invention is now set forth with regard to .

An example of a radio that could be used with such system and method as described above is a Falcon III radio manufactured and sold by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This type of radio can support multiple wavebands form 30 MHz up to 2 GHz including L band SATCOM and MANET. The waveforms can provide secure IP data networking. It should be understood that different radios can be used including software defined radios that can be typically implemented with relatively standard processor and hardware components. One particular class of software radio is the Joint Tactical Radio JTR which includes relatively standard radio and processing hardware along with any appropriate waveform software modules to implement the communication waveforms a radio will use. JTR radios also use operating system software that conforms with the software communications architecture SCA specification see www.jtrs.saalt.mil which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety The SCA is an open architecture framework that specifies how hardware and software components are to interoperate so that different manufacturers and developers can readily integrate the respective components into a single device.

The Joint Tactical Radio System JTRS Software Component Architecture SCA defines a set of interfaces and protocols often based on the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA for implementing a Software Defined Radio SDR . In part JTRS and its SCA are used with a family of software re programmable radios. As such the SCA is a specific set of rules methods and design criteria for implementing software re programmable digital radios.

The JTRS SCA specification is published by the JTRS Joint Program Office JPO . The JTRS SCA has been structured to provide for portability of applications software between different JTRS SCA implementations leverage commercial standards to reduce development cost reduce development time of new waveforms through the ability to reuse design modules and build on evolving commercial frameworks and architectures.

The JTRS SCA is not a system specification as it is intended to be implementation independent but a set of rules that constrain the design of systems to achieve desired JTRS objectives. The software framework of the JTRS SCA defines the Operating Environment OE and specifies the services and interfaces that applications use from that environment. The SCA OE comprises a Core Framework CF a CORBA middleware and an Operating System OS based on the Portable Operating System Interface POSIX with associated board support packages. The JTRS SCA also provides a building block structure defined in the API Supplement for defining application programming interfaces APIs between application software components.

The JTRS SCA Core Framework CF is an architectural concept defining the essential core set of open software Interfaces and Profiles that provide for the deployment management interconnection and intercommunication of software application components in embedded distributed computing communication systems. Interfaces may be defined in the JTRS SCA Specification. However developers may implement some of them some may be implemented by non core applications i.e. waveforms etc. and some may be implemented by hardware device providers.

For purposes of description only a brief description of an example of a communications system that includes communications devices that incorporate the filter in accordance with a non limiting example is described relative to a non limiting example shown in . This high level block diagram of a communications system includes a base station segment and wireless message terminals that could be modified for use with the present invention. The base station segment includes a VHF radio and HF radio that communicate and transmit voice or data over a wireless link to a VHF net or HF net each which include a number of respective VHF radios and HF radios and personal computer workstations connected to the radios . Ad hoc communication networks are interoperative with the various components as illustrated. The entire network can be ad hoc and include source destination and neighboring mobile nodes. Thus it should be understood that the HF or VHF networks include HF and VHF net segments that are infrastructure less and operative as the ad hoc communications network. Although UHF and higher frequency radios and net segments are not illustrated these could be included.

The radio can include a demodulator circuit and appropriate convolutional encoder circuit block interleaver data randomizer circuit data and framing circuit modulation circuit matched filter circuit block or symbol equalizer circuit with an appropriate clamping device deinterleaver and decoder circuit modem and power adaptation circuit as non limiting examples. A vocoder circuit can incorporate the decode and encode functions and a conversion unit could be a combination of the various circuits as described or a separate circuit. A clock circuit can establish the physical clock time and through second order calculations as described below a virtual clock time. The network can have an overall network clock time. These and other circuits operate to perform any functions necessary for the present invention as well as other functions suggested by those skilled in the art. Other illustrated radios including all VHF or UHF and higher frequency mobile radios and transmitting and receiving stations can have similar functional circuits. Radios could range from 30 MHz to about 2 Hz as non limiting examples.

The base station segment includes a landline connection to a public switched telephone network PSTN which connects to a PABX . A satellite interface such as a satellite ground station connects to the PABX which connects to processors forming wireless gateways These interconnect to the VHF radio or HF radio respectively. The processors are connected through a local area network to the PABX and e mail clients . The radios include appropriate signal generators and modulators.

An Ethernet TCP IP local area network could operate as a radio mail server. E mail messages could be sent over radio links and local air networks using STANAG 5066 as second generation protocols waveforms the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and of course preferably with the third generation interoperability standard STANAG 4538 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. An interoperability standard FED STD 1052 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety could be used with legacy wireless devices. Examples of equipment that can be used in the present invention include different wireless gateway and radios manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla. This equipment could include RF5800 5022 7210 5710 5285 and PRC 117 and 138 series equipment and devices as non limiting examples.

These systems can be operable with RF 5710A high frequency HF modems and with the NATO standard known as STANAG 4539 the disclosure which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety which provides for transmission of long distance radio at rates up to 9 600 bps. In addition to modem technology those systems can use wireless email products that use a suite of data link protocols designed and perfected for stressed tactical channels such as the STANAG 4538 or STANAG 5066 the disclosures which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. It is also possible to use a fixed non adaptive data rate as high as 19 200 bps with a radio set to ISB mode and an HF modem set to a fixed data rate. It is possible to use code combining techniques and ARQ.

A communications system that incorporates communications devices can be used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention and is shown in . A transmitter is shown at and includes basic functional circuit components or modules including a forward error correction encoder that includes a puncturing module which could be integral to the encoder or a separate module. The decoder and its puncturing module includes a function for repeating as will be explained below. Encoded data is interleaved at an interleaver for example a block interleaver and in many cases modulated at modulator This modulator can map the communications data into different symbols based on a specific mapping algorithm to form a communications signal. For example it could form Minimum Shift Keying or Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying MSK or GMSK symbols. Other types of modulation could be used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. Up conversion and filtering occurs at an up converter and filter which could be formed as an integrated module or separate modules. Communications signals are transmitted for example wirelessly to receiver .

At the receiver down conversion and filtering occurs at a down converter and filter which could be integrated or separate modules. The signal is demodulated at demodulator and deinterleaved at deinterleaver The deinterleaved data i.e. bit soft decisions is decoded and depunctured for punctured codes combined for repeated codes and passed through for standard codes at decoder which could include a separate or integrated depuncturing module. The system apparatus and method can use different modules and different functions. These components as described could typically be contained within one transceiver.

It should be understood in one non limiting aspect of the present invention a rate 1 2 K 7 convolutional code can be used as an industry standard code for forward error correction FEC during encoding. For purposes of understanding a more detailed description of basic components now follows. A convolutional code is an error correcting code and usually has three parameters n k m with n equal to the number of output bits k equal to the number of input bits and m equal to the number of memory registers in one non limiting example. The quantity k n could be called the code rate with this definition and is a measure of the efficiency of the code. K and n parameters can range from 1 to 8 m can range from 2 to 10 and the code rate can range from 1 8 to 7 8 in non limiting examples. Sometimes convolutional code chips are specified by parameters n k L with L equal to the constraint length of the code as L k m 1 . Thus the constraint length can represent the number of bits in an encoder memory that would affect the generation of n output bits. Sometimes the letters may be switched depending on the definitions used.

The transformation of the encoded data is a function of the information symbols and the constraint length of the code. Single bit input codes can produce punctured codes that give different code rates. For example when a rate 1 2 code is used the transmission of a subset of the output bits of the encoder can convert the rate 1 2 code into a rate 2 3 code. Thus one hardware circuit or module can produce codes of different rates. Punctured codes allow rates to be changed dynamically through software or hardware depending on channel conditions such as rain or other channel impairing conditions.

An encoder for a convolutional code typically uses a look up table for encoding which usually includes an input bit as well as a number of previous input bits known as the state of the encoder the table value being the output bit or bits of the encoder. It is possible to view the encoder function as a state diagram a tree diagram or a trellis diagram.

Decoding systems for convolutional codes can use 1 sequential decoding or 2 maximum likelihood decoding also referred to as Viterbi decoding which typically is more desirable. Sequential decoding allows both forward and backward movement through the trellis. Viterbi decoding as maximum likelihood decoding examines a receive sequence of given length computes a metric for each path and makes a decision based on the metric.

Puncturing convolutional codes is a common practice in some systems and is used in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. It should be understood that in some examples a punctured convolutional code is a higher rate code obtained by the periodic elimination of specific code bits from the output of a low rate encoder. Punctured convolutional code performance can be degraded compared with original codes but typically the coding rate increases.

Some of the basic components that could be used as non limiting examples of the present invention include a transmitter that incorporates a convolutional encoder which encodes a sequence of binary input vectors to produce the sequence of binary output vectors and can be defined using a trellis structure. An interleaver for example a block interleaver can permute the bits of the output vectors. The interleaved data would also be modulated at the transmitter by mapping to transmit symbols and transmitted. At a receiver a demodulator demodulates the signal.

A block deinterleaver recovers the bits that were interleaved. A Viterbi decoder could decode the deinterleaved bit soft decisions to produce binary output data.

Often a Viterbi forward error correction module or core is used that would include a convolutional encoder and Viterbi decoder as part of a radio transceiver as described above. For example if the constraint length of the convolutional code is 7 the encoder and Viterbi decoder could support selectable code rates of 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 5 6 6 7 7 8 using industry standard puncturing algorithms.

Different design and block systems parameters could include the constraint length as a number of input bits over which the convolutional code is computed and a convolutional code rate as the ratio of the input to output bits for the convolutional encoder. The puncturing rate could include a ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder using the puncturing process for example derived from a rate 1 2 code.

The Viterbi decoder parameters could include the convolutional code rate as a ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder. The puncture rate could be the ratio of input to output bits for the convolutional encoder using a puncturing process and can be derived from a rate 1 2 mother code. The input bits could be the number of processing bits for the decoder. The Viterbi input width could be the width of input data i.e. soft decisions to the Viterbi decoder. A metric register length could be the width of registers storing the metrics. A trace back depth could be the length of path required by the Viterbi decoder to compute the most likely decoded bit value. The size of the memory storing the path metrics information for the decoding process could be the memory size. In some instances a Viterbi decoder could include a First In First Out FIFO buffer between depuncture and Viterbi function blocks or modules. The Viterbi output width could be the width of input data to the Viterbi decoder.

The encoder could include a puncturing block circuit or module as noted above. Usually a convolutional encoder may have a constraint length of 7 and take the form of a shift register with a number of elements for example 6. One bit can be input for each clock cycle. Thus the output bits could be defined by a combination of shift register elements using a standard generator code and be concatenated to form an encoded output sequence. There could be a serial or parallel byte data interface at the input. The output width could be programmable depending on the punctured code rate of the application.

A Viterbi decoder in non limiting examples could divide the input data stream into blocks and estimate the most likely data sequence. Each decoded data sequence could be output in a burst. The input and calculations can be continuous and require four clock cycles for every two bits of data in one non limiting example. An input FIFO can be dependent on a depuncture input data rate.

It should also be understood that embodiments of the present invention is not limited to convolutional codes and similar FEC but also turbo codes could be used as high performance error correction codes or low density parity check codes that approach the Shannon limit as the theoretical limit of maximum information transfer rate over a noisy channel. Thus some available bandwidth can be increased without increasing the power of the transmission. Instead of producing binary digits from the signal the front end of the decoder could be designed to produce a likelihood measure for each bit.

The system in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention can be used in multiprocessor embedded systems and related methods and also used for any type of radio software communications architecture as used on mainframe computers or small computers including laptops with an added transceiver such as used by military and civilian applications or in a portable wireless communications device as illustrated in . The portable wireless communications device is illustrated as a radio that can include a transceiver as an internal component and handheld housing with an antenna and control knobs. A Liquid Crystal Display LCD or similar display can be positioned on the housing in an appropriate location for display. The various internal components including dual processor systems for red and black subsystems and software that is conforming with SCA is operative with the illustrated radio. Although a portable or handheld radio is disclosed the architecture as described can be used with any processor system operative in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention. An example of a communications device in accordance with non limiting examples of the present invention is the Falcon III manpack or tactical radio platform manufactured by Harris Corporation of Melbourne Fla.

For purposes of description a typical high frequency communications system used for transmitting and receiving digital data is described with reference to . This system can communicate using different standards and waveforms including waveforms pertaining to the MIL STD 188 110B standard. The system and method can employ this technology and adopt it and apply the NAND system described above in accordance with a non limiting example of the present invention.

As shown in for this typical HF communications system at a transmit section a data stream Src that is to be transmitted is forwarded as 1 s and 0 s as is typical. The encoder is operative as a Forward Error Correction FEC encoder and applies a FEC algorithm to the data which passes to an interleaver which interleaves the data which is then modulated by a modulator . In some prior art systems having similar functions differential modulation is applied at this point. The present invention can use coherent modulation in the modulator for example. The modulator could be a two four or eight PSK modulator as a non limiting example. Mini probe sequences can also be applied. The data is passed into a transmit digital low pass filter and the data is up converted by a digital up conversion circuit from baseband to an 1800 Hz carrier in this one non limiting example. A radio transmit filter RTF limits the bandwidth of the transmit waveform to about 3 KHz. The data is passed to a high frequency multi path and fading channel simulator circuit meant to simulate an HF channel where multi path is modeled as a tapped delay line and each tap in the tapped delay line has fading characteristics based on the Watterson model.

At a receiver section a radio receive filter limits the bandwidth of the data signal to about 3 KHz. The data is digitally down converted in the converter from 1800 Hz carrier to baseband in this non limiting example. The data passes into a receive digital low pass filter that is ideally the same as the transmit digital low pass filter TDF . The demodulation occurs followed by deinterleaving within a deinterleaver circuit . The forward error correction FEC decoder circuit decodes the data and passes it as a received bit stream Sink .

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

