---

title: Adhesive attachment and method
abstract: An easy to use epoxy-mount base plate assembly has components of a two-part epoxy adhesive pre-dispensed on the assembly's base plate in a plurality of alternating segments and prepackaged with a protective adhesive cover that keeps each epoxy component segment separated from one another until ready for use. To attach the base plate of the assembly to a surface, the adhesive cover is removed exposing the epoxy segments. The base plate is then pressed against a mounting surface and twisted thus mixing the epoxy components and initiating a curing process for the epoxy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08318278&OS=08318278&RS=08318278
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08318278
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071121
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract Grant Aegis SM 6 Integration N00024 04 C 5128. The United States Government has a non exclusive non transferable paid up license in this invention.

The present invention relates to the field of adhesive attachment assemblies and related method of use for securing an adhesive attachment onto a surface.

In many industrial applications it is necessary or desirable to mount or attach an element such as a cable clamp a threaded screw stud or the like onto a supporting substrate by means of an adhesive connection or a bond. For example it may be necessary to attach a cable clamp a threaded screw stud or the like to the hull or other surfaces of a ship. In a typical ship environment where the hull or other surfaces of a ship steel such elements are attached by welding.

Welding however poses many inconveniences and is not the most desired method in a shipyard environment because a welder and electric power for operating the welder must be brought to the work location that can be cramped and located at the very remote corners of the ship. In addition the heat generated from the welding procedure poses a fire hazard. For example if a cable clamp is being welded to the bulkhead of the ship the fire hazard exists on both sides of the bulkhead. If lagging has been installed on the opposite side of the bulkhead it must be removed before the cable clamp can be welded to the bulkhead. The area where the paint is burned will have to be cleaned and repainted after the welding is complete.

According to an embodiment of the invention an epoxy mount base plate assembly is disclosed. The epoxy mount base plate assembly comprises a base plate having a mounting face. Components of a two part epoxy adhesive are predispensed on the mounting face in a plurality of discrete segments wherein said two part epoxy adhesive components alternate among the plurality of discrete segments. An adhesive cover configured to cover and keep the epoxy adhesive segments apart from one another while attached to the mounting face of the base plate is removably attached to the mounting face. The adhesive cover prevents premature mixing of the epoxy components before the cover is removed. Such epoxy mounted base plate can be used to repair a hole in a surface such as an aircraft fuselage or a ship s hull for example.

According to another embodiment an epoxy mount base plate assembly comprises a base plate having a mounting face. Components of a two part epoxy adhesive are predispensed on the mounting face in a plurality of discrete segments wherein said two part epoxy adhesive components alternate among the plurality of discrete segments. An adhesive cover is removably attached to the mounting face of the base covering the epoxy adhesive segments and keeping the adhesive segments apart from one another to prevent premature mixing before the cover is removed.

According to other embodiments the base plate comprises a structure provided on its top side that may be a utility object or an ornamental object such that the base plate assembly functions as an attachment means to attach the structure to a desired surface.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method of assembling an epoxy mount base plate assembly is disclosed. A base plate having a mounting face for attaching to a mounting surface is provided. Then a plurality of alternating segments of a two part epoxy adhesive components are dispensed on to the mounting face. Next an adhesive cover is removably attached to the mounting face wherein the adhesive cover is configured to keep the dispensed alternating segments of the two part epoxy adhesive components separated while the adhesive cover is attached to the mounting face.

According to another embodiment of the invention a method of attaching the epoxy mount base plate described herein to a mounting surface is disclosed. To attach the base plate to a surface the adhesive cover is removed exposing the plurality of segments of the two part epoxy adhesive components predispensed on the mounting face of the base plate. The user then presses the mounting face of the base plate against the mounting surface and twists the assembly thereby mixing the two part components of the epoxy adhesive between the two mating surfaces and initiating the epoxy curing process. Next the base plate has to be appropriately held in place while the epoxy cures. If the mounting surface is horizontal the epoxy mount base can be left alone and the gravity will hold it in place. If the mounting surface is not horizontal then the epoxy mount base can be temporarily secured in place via some appropriate external fixturing such as clamps clips magnets etc.

The epoxy mount base plate assembly described herein can simplify the task of attaching such utility objects as cable clamps or threaded screw studs to a ship s hull for example and make is safer. Because the utility objects are attached by an adhesive welding equipment is not required and the associated fire risks are eliminated.

This description of the preferred embodiments is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings which are to be considered part of the entire written description of this invention. In the description relative terms such as lower upper horizontal vertical above below up down top and bottom as well as derivative thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should be construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing under discussion. These relative terms are for convenience of description and do not require that the apparatus be constructed or operated in a particular orientation. Terms concerning attachments such as attached attaching mounted and mounting are used interchangeably and refer to one structure or surface being secured to another structure or surface unless expressly described otherwise.

To keep the components of the epoxy adhesive separated the assembly includes an adhesive cover that is removably attached to the mounting face A of the base plate . The adhesive cover is removably attached to the mounting face A by an appropriate adhesive such as a pressure sensitive acrylic adhesive or film to hold it in place until the assembly is ready to be used. The adhesive cover is provided with a plurality of slots on mating face A that are positioned to align with the plurality of discrete segments of the epoxy adhesive components A B on the mounting face A of the base plate . Because the mating face A of the cover is sealably attached to the mounting face A of the base plate each slot or compartment encases each of the epoxy adhesive component segments A and B and prevent them from mixing with one another until the cover is removed. The slots are not holes but cavities that are open only on the mating face A of the cover and do not go through to the top side B of the cover .

Because the epoxy components need to be mixed preferably uniformly in order to cure the epoxy adhesive the arrangement of the dispensed segments of the epoxy adhesive components A and B although can be in any arrangement or pattern preferrably should be some configuration that would enable uniform mixing of the epoxy components A B by the twisting motion.

The base plate of the epoxy mount base plate assembly is not limited to the substantially square shape illustrated in the examples of . The base plate can be provided in any desired shape as long as the mounting face A is substantially contoured to contact the mounting surface with sufficient intimacy for optimal performance of the particular epoxy adhesive being used. For example the base plate is not limited to being a thin plate like shape but can be a cube or other shape having a substantial 3 dimensional volume with a mounting face appropriately contoured to mate with the surface on which the base plate is to be mounted. For instance if the mounting surface is substantially flat the mounting face A of the base plate is also preferably substantially flat. If the mounting surface has a spherical contour the mounting face A should also have the matching spherical contour. However because the base plate has to be twisted to mix the epoxy components the mounting surface and the corresponding mounting surface can not have irregular contour. The two mating surfaces are preferably axially symmetrical whether they are flat or contoured.

According to an aspect of the invention the two part epoxy components can be predispensed in any pattern or array of segments that would allow substantially uniform mixing of the two epoxy components A B when the base plate is twisted against a mounting surface. The term segment as used herein in reference to the epoxy components refers to any shape that the epoxy components may be predispensed and is not limited to continuous elongated shapes of the examples shown in . Similarly the term slot as used herein in reference to the cavities provided on the mating face of the adhesive covers refers to any shape that corresponds to the shape of the epoxy segments each slot is intended to encase.

For example shows an embodiment of a base plate wherein the epoxy components A B are predispensed in short segments patterned in small groups. The epoxy component segments can even be predispensed in random shapes and patterns as long as they provide uniform mixing of the epoxy components. shows the adhesive cover corresponding to the base plate of . the adhesive cover is provided with a plurality of slots that correspond to the number and pattern of the epoxy component segments on the base plate .

In the examples described above the two part epoxy components were predispensed on to the mounting face of a base plate and subsequently covered by the corresponding adhesive cover. Alternatively the epoxy components can be predispensed into each of the slots provided on the adhesive covers and then attach the adhesive covers to the mounting face of the base plate. This embodiment provides simpler assembly process during manufacture of the epoxy mount base plate assembly because the adhesive cover does not need to be aligned with the epoxy adhesive segments when attaching it to the base plate.

Referring to a method of assembling an epoxy mount base plate assembly according to another embodiment of the invention is disclosed. A base plate having a mounting face for attaching to a mounting surface is provided see box of and then a plurality of alternating segments of a two part epoxy adhesive components are dispensed on to the mounting face see box . Next an adhesive cover is removably attached to the mounting face wherein the adhesive cover is configured to keep the dispensed alternating segments of the two part epoxy adhesive components separated while the adhesive cover is attached to the mounting face see box . The adhesive cover is configured as described above and can be attached to the mounting face with appropriate adhesive material such as a pressure sensitive adhesive.

Referring to a method of attaching the epoxy mount base plate described above to a mounting surface according to yet another embodiment of the invention is disclosed. First a base plate assembly comprising a base plate having a mounting face that is covered with an adhesive cover removably attached to the mounting face and covering a plurality of alternating segments of two part epoxy adhesive components predispensed on the mounting surface is provided. To attach the base plate to a mounting surface the adhesive cover is removed exposing the plurality of segments of the two part epoxy adhesive components predispensed on the mounting face of the base plate see box . The user then presses the mounting face of the base plate against the mounting surface see box and twists the assembly thereby mixing the two part components of the epoxy adhesive between the two mating surfaces and initiating the epoxy curing process see box . Next the base plate is appropriately held in place if necessary while the epoxy cures.

Although the invention has been described in terms of exemplary embodiments it is not limited thereto. Rather the appended claims should be construed broadly to include other variants and embodiments of the invention which may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and range of equivalents of the invention.

