---

title: Cigarette having configured lighting end
abstract: The lighting end or tip of the smoking article is configured in such a manner that the entire front or upstream face thereof does not lie in a plane that is generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the smoking article. For example, at least a portion of the front face of the smoking article lies in a plane (e.g., a generally flat plane) that is positioned about 40° to about 50° relative to the longitudinal axis of that smoking article. As such, the overall nature or character of the mainstream aerosol generated by a smoking article can be altered. This shape may include an ellipse, or may include a first section in a plane not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis and a second section in a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. Alternatively, the face of the lighting end may have a shape such that its surface area is greater than the cross-sectional area of the smoking article.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07836897&OS=07836897&RS=07836897
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 07836897
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071005
---
Aspects of the present invention are directed to smoking articles such as cigarettes and more particularly to cigarettes having configured lighting ends.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments may include activated charcoal particles. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 186 to Veluz PCT Pub. No. WO 2006 064371 to Banerjee and U.S. Pat. App. Pub No. 2007 0056600 to Coleman III et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper in order to provide a so called filtered cigarette. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Davis et al. Eds. 1999 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 696 416 to Marshall et al. Normally a generally cylindrical or rod shaped smoking article such as a cigarette has a generally circular cross sectional shape and each of the lighting tip and mouth end faces thereof extend virtually perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette. A cigarette typically is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream aerosol e.g. smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter or mouth end of the cigarette.

Various attempts to alter the visual attributes of cigarettes have been proposed. For example there have been attempts to alter the color of the wrapping materials that provide the wrapping material of the tobacco rod e.g. cigarettes marketed under the trade name More by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company possess cigarette rod wrapping papers exhibiting a brown color and tipping materials used to attach the tobacco rod to the filter element e.g. tipping materials have been printed or otherwise formed so as to possess a cork appearance and or to possess at least one circumscribing ring . In addition there have been attempts to alter the general appearance of the filter elements of cigarettes. See for example the types of cigarette filter element formats configurations and designs set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 396 733 to Allseits et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 663 to Schultz U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 508 525 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 637 410 to Luke U.S. Pat. No. 4 646 763 to Nichols U.S. Pat. No. 4 655 736 to Keith U.S. Pat. No. 4 726 385 to Chumney Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2007 0023056 to Cantrell et al. and 2007 0169786 to Li et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Certain attempts have been made to alter the nature or character of smoke generated by cigarettes through the positioning of various components or component materials near the lighting ends or tip portions of cigarettes. In one regard a cigarette having a paper wrapped tobacco rod may include ingredients e.g. ammonium salts or tobaccos having relatively high ammonia levels located at its tip portion that corresponds to its lighting end. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 874 508 to Shafer et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0022829 to Atwell et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. Likewise attempts have been made to alter the nature or character of smoke by positioning components near the mouth end of cigarettes. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 494 366 to Starbuck et al. entitled Cigarette Having Heat Sink Means For Removing Impurities From Cigarette Smoke. 

In yet another regard certain types of cigarettes such as those marketed commercially under the brand names Premier and Eclipse by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company have incorporated combustible fuel sources e.g. carbonaceous fuel elements that generate heat for the production of a smoke like aerosol. See for example the types of smoking articles set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 793 365 to Sensabaugh et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 183 062 to Clearman et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 551 451 to Riggs et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2007 0023056 to Cantrell et al. 2007 0215167 to Crooks et al and 2007 0215168 to Banerjee et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

It would be desirable to provide a manner or method for providing alteration of the overall composition of mainstream aerosol generated by a cigarette.

The present invention relates to smoking articles and in particular to generally rod shaped smoking articles such as cigarettes. Each smoking article comprises a lighting end or tip i.e. an upstream end and a mouth end i.e. a downstream end . In one regard the smoking article may include an aerosol generating system that includes i a heat generation segment e.g. a short heat source comprising a combustible material such as a carbonaceous material located at the upstream end and ii an aerosol generating region or segment located downstream from the heat generation segment. In another regard the smoking article may include smokable material e.g. a roll of tobacco in cut filler form wrapped in a circumscribing paper wrapper thereby forming a tobacco rod. The lighting end or tip of the smoking article is configured in such a manner that the entire front or upstream face thereof does not lie in a plane that is generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the smoking article. For example for a cylindrically shaped smoking article rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the upstream face i.e. the front face of the smoking article can resemble an ellipse in general appearance and not resemble a circle when viewed at an angle generally perpendicular to the nominal plane of the front face. In one embodiment for example the front face i.e exposed end surface of the lighting end of the smoking article may lie along a front plane e.g. a generally flat plane such as can be provided by slicing or otherwise forming the lighting end of the smoking article in an essentially straight line that is positioned at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that smoking article and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the smoking article. Alternatively the front face of the smoking article may lie along a somewhat curved plane e.g. in a parabolic type configuration in a convex or concave manner where the side profile of the front face is a part of a parabolic type contour wherein the somewhat curved front face nominally lies along a front plane that is at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that smoking article and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the smoking article. For certain embodiments the front face can be configured so as to possess a relatively flat form and appearance however if desired the front face can be configured so as to have a somewhat rough or what might be characterized as a serrated appearance.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a manner or method for altering the overall nature or character of the mainstream aerosol generated by a smoking article. As such the chemical nature of mainstream aerosol generated by a smoking article can be altered by providing a lighting end or tip that does not entirely lie in a plane that is generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of that smoking article.

Aspects of the present invention thus address the needs identified above and provide significant advantages as further discussed herein.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all aspects of the invention are shown. Indeed the present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Referring to there is shown a smoking article in the form of a cigarette and possessing certain representative components of a smoking article of the present invention. The cigarette includes a generally cylindrical rod of a charge or roll of smokable filler material contained in a circumscribing wrapping material . The rod is conventionally referred to as a tobacco rod. Typical tobacco rods have maximum lengths of about 45 mm to about 85 mm often about 50 mm to about 80 mm and frequently about 55 mm to about 75 mm. The ends of the tobacco rod are open to expose the smokable filler material. The cigarette is shown as having one optional band e.g. a printed coating including a film forming agent such as starch ethylcellulose or sodium alginate applied to the wrapping material and that band circumscribes the cigarette rod in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. That is the band provides a cross directional region relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The band can be printed on the inner surface of the wrapping material i.e. facing the smokable filler material or less preferably on the outer surface of the wrapping material. Although the cigarette can possess a wrapping material having one optional band the cigarette also can possess wrapping material having further optional spaced bands numbering two three or more.

At one end of the tobacco rod is the lighting end and at the mouth end is positioned a filter element . The filter element is positioned adjacent one end of the tobacco rod such that the filter element and tobacco rod are axially aligned in an end to end relationship preferably abutting one another. Filter element may have a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof may be essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod. The ends of the filter element permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element is circumscribed along its outer circumference or longitudinal periphery by a layer of outer plug wrap .

A ventilated or air diluted smoking article can be provided with an optional air dilution means such as a series of perforations each of which extend through the outer tipping material and inner plug wrap . The optional perforations can be made by various techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as laser perforation techniques. Alternatively so called off line air dilution techniques can be used e.g. through the use of porous paper plug wrap and pre perforated tipping paper . For cigarettes that are air diluted or ventilated the amount or degree of air dilution or ventilation can vary. Frequently the amount of air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is greater than about 10 percent generally is greater than about 20 percent often is greater than about 30 percent and sometimes is greater than about 40 percent. Typically the upper level for air dilution for an air diluted cigarette is less than about 80 percent and often is less than about 70 percent. As used herein the term air dilution is the ratio expressed as a percentage of the volume of air drawn through the air dilution means to the total volume and air and smoke drawn through the cigarette and exiting the extreme mouth end portion of the cigarette.

At the lighting end the tobacco rod has an extreme upstream face also referred to as front face that forms a plane that entirely lies at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. That is no portion of the upstream face lies on a plane that is essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. Typically the front face of the tobacco rod lies along a front plane e.g. a generally flat plane such as can be provided by slicing or otherwise forming the lighting end of the cigarette in an essentially straight line that is positioned at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. For example the front face of the tobacco rod lies along a front plane that is positioned at an angle of about 40 to about 50 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette as opposed to an angle of about 90 for a traditional type of cigarette.

Alternatively the upstream face may have a planar configuration such that for a generally cylindrical tobacco rod having a circumference of about 17 mm to about 27 mm most preferably about 22 mm to about 25 mm one extreme tip of the wrapping material extends at least about 5 mm often at least about 7 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side i.e. spaced 180 of the front face of that tobacco rod optionally the extreme tip of the wrapping material extends up to about 15 mm often up to about 13 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side of that tobacco rod as opposed to essentially no difference in length of the opposite extreme tips for the wrapping material of a traditional cigarette with a front face perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette.

Referring to there is shown a perspective view of a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in having both a lighting end and mouth end . The lighting end of the cigarette is shown having an upstream face in a plane that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. As such for a cylindrical tobacco rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed face or the lighting face of that tobacco rod appears to have a shape that when viewed perpendicularly to the plane of the front face is generally elliptical in nature as opposed to a generally circular shaped exposed end for a traditional cigarette.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However rather than forming an essentially flat plane the front face of the cigarette is somewhat curved in nature e.g. in a manner that might be characterized as somewhat parabolic or otherwise non linear in nature . As shown the entire front face of the cigarette rod is curved in towards the rod in a fashion that can be characterized as somewhat concave in nature. The front face of the cigarette is configured nominally along a plane such as the plane extending between the longest extreme tip and the opposite shortest extreme tip of the cigarette at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. For example the front face of the tobacco rod lies along a front plane that nominally is positioned at an angle of about 40 to about 50 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette as opposed to an angle of about 90 for a traditional type of cigarette.

Alternatively the upstream face may have a concavely curved configuration such that for example for a generally cylindrical tobacco rod having a circumference of about 17 mm to about 27 mm most preferably about 22 mm to about 25 mm one extreme tip of the wrapping material extends at least about 5 mm often at least about 7 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side i.e. spaced 180 of the front face of that tobacco rod while the extreme tip of the wrapping material extends up to about 15 mm often up to about 13 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side of the front face of that tobacco rod as opposed to essentially no difference for the wrapping material extreme tips of a traditional cigarette. As such for a cylindrical tobacco rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed end or the lighting face of that tobacco rod appears to have a shape that when viewed perpendicularly end on to the nominal plane is generally elliptical in nature as opposed to a generally circular shaped exposed end for a traditional cigarette.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However for the embodiment shown in the entire front face of the tobacco rod can be curved outwards from the rod in a fashion that can be characterized as somewhat convex in nature. In other words the front face has a convexly curved surface that extends outwardly beyond the nominal plane lying between the longest extreme tip of the wrapping material and the opposite shortest extreme tip of the wrapping material where the nominal plane is not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette . Preferably the nominal plane is at least 30 or at least 40 from the longitudinal axis of the cigarette and not more than 70 not more than 60 or not more than 50 from the longitudinal axis of the cigarette.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However rather than the entire front face of the cigarette forming a plane that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette a portion of the front face of the cigarette lies in a plane that is virtually perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette and a portion of the front face of the cigarette lies in a plane that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. Preferably the non perpendicular portion is contiguous with the perpendicular portion . However the two portions and may join at a border region . The border region may variously comprise a sharp edge as shown a generally curved surface or a generally planar surface. Most preferably the exposed surface area of the front face portion of the cigarette that forms a plane generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette is less than the exposed surface area of the front face portion that forms a plane that is not perpendicular or angled relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The angled front face of the cigarette is configured nominally in a plane at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. For example a portion of the front face of the tobacco rod lies along a front plane that nominally is positioned at an angle of about 40 to about 50 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette as opposed to an angle of about 90 for the other front face portion of that cigarette.

Alternatively the upstream face may have a multi planar or multi faceted configuration such that for example for a generally cylindrical tobacco rod having a circumference of about 17 mm to about 27 mm most preferably about 22 mm to about 25 mm one extreme tip of the wrapping material extends at least about 3 mm often at least about 5 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side i.e. spaced 180 of the front face of that tobacco rod. Preferably the extreme tip of the wrapping material typically extends no more than about 15 mm often no more than about 10 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side of the front face of that tobacco rod. As such for a cylindrical tobacco rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed end or the lighting face of that tobacco rod appears to have a shape when viewed end on that is partially generally circular in nature and partially generally elliptical in nature. Preferably when viewed end on perpendicularly to the plane formed from the angled front face the exposed end appears composed of two sections of differently shaped ellipses.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However the angled face rather than forming an essentially flat plane is somewhat curved in nature. As shown a portion of the front face is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette and a portion of front face of the cigarette rod is curved in towards the rod in a fashion that can be characterized as somewhat concave in nature. Alternatively for an embodiment not shown that curved portion of the front face of the cigarette rod can be curved outwards from the rod in a fashion that can be characterized as somewhat convex in nature. Preferably the non perpendicular portion is contiguous with the perpendicular portion . However the two portions and may join at a border region . The border region may variously comprise a sharp edge as shown a generally curved surface or a generally planar surface. Most preferably the exposed area of the front face portion of the cigarette that forms a plane generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette is less than the exposed area of the front face portion that lies along a nominal plane that is not perpendicular or angled relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The nominal plane is that plane defined by 1 the shortest extreme tip of the wrapping material and 2 either the junction between the curved portion of the front face and the perpendicular portion of the front face or where no junction is readily discernable or present then at the edge of the curved face portion farthest from the shortest extreme tip. The angled front face of the cigarette is configured nominally along a plane positioned at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. For example the curved portion of the front face of the tobacco rod lies along a plane that nominally is positioned at an angle of about 40 to about 50 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette as opposed to an angle of about 90 for the other front face portion of that cigarette.

Alternatively the upstream face may have a multi surfaced configuration lying nominally along multiple different planes such that for example for a generally cylindrical tobacco rod having a circumference of about 17 mm to about 27 mm most preferably about 22 mm to about 25 mm one extreme tip of the wrapping material extends at least about 3 mm often at least about 5 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side i.e. spaced 180 of the front face of that tobacco rod. Preferably the extreme tip of the wrapping material extends not more than about 15 mm often not more than about 10 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side of the front face of that tobacco rod. As such for a cylindrical tobacco rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed end or the lighting face of that tobacco rod appears to have a shape when viewed end on that is partially generally circular in nature and partially generally elliptical in nature. Preferably when viewed end on perpendicularly to the nominal plane along which lies the curved front face portion the exposed end appears composed of two sections of differently shaped ellipses that may be irregularly shaped depending on the relative curvature of the front face portion .

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However for the embodiment shown in the angled front face can be configured so as to possess a somewhat rough jagged or serrated appearance as opposed to a relatively flat form and appearance. For example the extreme lighting end of the wrapping material can have rather than a smooth or straight cut appearance an appearance at an edge when viewed cross wise resembling that of a saw toothed blade a square wave a scalloped type or wavy type of appearance a shredded type of appearance or other type of roughened or serrated type of appearance. If desired the various embodiments described with reference to also can be configured so as to possess a somewhat rough or serrated type of appearance at the extreme lighting end.

Alternatively instead of cigarettes with tobacco rods composed entirely of smokable tobacco cut filler cigarettes of the type set forth U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2007 0023056 to Cantrell et al. can have smokable lighting end segments that are modified in the manner set forth hereinbefore with reference to .

In use cigarettes of the type described with reference to can be used in the following manner. Typically the smoker lights the lighting end of the cigarette using a match or flame type cigarette lighter for example using the types of technique set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 6 874 508 to Shafer et al. Alternatively the cigarette can be lighted using an electric resistance element type of heating device such as an automobile cigarette lighter. If desired the cigarette can be positioned relative to the flame of match or cigarette lighter so that the exposed smokable material of lighting end of the tobacco rod faces the flame. Alternatively if desired the cigarette can be positioned relative to the flame of match or cigarette lighter so that the exposed smokable material of lighting end of the tobacco rod does not face the flame but rather the wrapping material of the tobacco rod near the lighting end of the cigarette faces the flame. If desired the exposed smokable material of the lighting end of the tobacco rod can be positioned during lighting to face downwards upwards or to one side and in each such situation the tip of the flame of the match or cigarette lighter can be positioned slightly below the extreme lighting end. After being lit the cigarette can be smoked in an essentially normal fashion.

Referring to a representative smoking article in the form of a cigarette is shown in a longitudinal cross sectional view. That representative cigarette includes a heat generation segment located at the lighting end a filter segment located at the mouth end an aerosol formation segment located adjacent to the heat generation segment and tobacco containing segment located adjacent to the filter segment . If desired the tobacco containing segment can be a multi component segment that has been combined to form a single component piece. The compositions formats arrangements and dimensions of the various segments of the smoking article can be generally similar to those incorporated within those cigarettes commercially marketed under the trade name Eclipse by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. The tobacco containing segment may include tobacco and or tobacco flavor generating material e.g. tobacco cut filler processed tobacco cut filler strips of tobacco material a gathered web of reconstituted tobacco material or the like . That segment can possess a circumscribing wrapper such as a paper wrapping material. See also those types of cigarette formats configurations and components set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0215167 to Crooks et al.

At the lighting end the cigarette can possess at least one outer layer of wrapping material that overlies an insulation region that in turn overlies a fuel element e.g. a carbonaceous combustible fuel element . See for example the types of fuel element and lighting end components and configurations set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 065 776 to Lawson et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0215167 to Crooks et al. Typically a representative lighting end region has a length of at least about 10 mm and often at least about 15 mm but less than about 30 mm often less than about 25 mm frequently less than about 20 mm. The fuel element has an extreme upstream face that forms a plane that lies at an angle relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette . That is no portion of the upstream face of the cigarette lies on a plane that is essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. Typically the front face of the tobacco rod lies along a front plane e.g. a generally flat plane such as can be provided by slicing or otherwise forming the lighting region of the cigarette in an essentially straight line that is positioned at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. For example the front face of the tobacco rod lies along a front plane that is positioned at an angle of about 40 to about 50 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette.

Alternatively the front face may have a planar configuration such that for a generally cylindrical cigarette having a circumference of about 22 mm to about 25 mm one extreme tip of the wrapping material extends at least about 5 mm often at least about 7 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side i.e. spaced 180 of the front face of that cigarette rod. Preferably the extreme tip of the wrapping material extends not more than about 15 mm often not more than about 13 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side of the front face of that cigarette rod. As such for a cylindrical tobacco rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed end or the lighting face of that cigarette rod i.e. as provided for example by wrapping materials insulation and formed fuel element appears to have a shape that when viewed perpendicularly to the front face is generally elliptical in nature.

Referring to there is shown in perspective view a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . The angled lighting end of the cigarette is shown. As such for a cylindrical tobacco rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed end and particularly the exposed end of the fuel element of that tobacco rod appears to have a shape that when viewed perpendicularly to the plane of the front face is generally elliptical in nature as opposed to a generally circular shaped exposed end for a traditional cigarette.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However rather than forming an essentially flat plane the front face of the cigarette is somewhat curved in nature. As shown in the entire front face of the cigarette rod is curved in towards the rod in a fashion that can be characterized as somewhat concave in nature. The front face of the cigarette is configured nominally along a plane at a position at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. For example the front face of the cigarette rod lies along a front plane that nominally is positioned at an angle of about 40 to about 50 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette.

Alternatively the upstream face may have a concavely curved configuration such that for example for a generally cylindrical cigarette rod having a circumference of about 22 mm to about 25 mm one extreme tip of the wrapping material extends at least about 5 mm often at least about 7 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side i.e. spaced 180 of the upstream face of that cigarette rod. Preferably the extreme tip of the wrapping material extends up to about 15 mm often up to about 13 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side of the front face of that rod. As such for a cylindrical cigarette rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed end or the lighting face of that rod appears to have a shape that when viewed perpendicularly end on that nominal plane appears generally elliptical in nature as opposed to a generally circular shaped exposed end.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However for that embodiment the entire front face of the cigarette rod can be curved outwards from the rod in a fashion that can be characterized as somewhat convex in nature.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However rather than the entire front face of the cigarette forming a plane that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette a portion of the front face of the fuel element of the cigarette lies in a plane that is virtually perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette and a portion of the front face of the fuel element lies in a plane that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The angled front face of the cigarette is configured nominally in a plane at a position at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. For example a portion of the front face of the fuel element lies along a front plane that nominally is positioned at an angle of about 40 to about 50 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette.

Alternatively the upstream face may have a multi planar or multi faceted configuration such that for example for a generally cylindrical cigarette rod having a circumference of about 22 mm to about 25 mm one extreme tip of the wrapping material extends at least about 3 mm often at least about 5 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side i.e. spaced 180 of the front face of that tobacco rod. Preferably the longer extreme tip of the wrapping material extends up to about 15 mm often up to about 10 mm beyond the shorter extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side of the front face of that cigarette rod. As such for a cylindrical cigarette rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed end or the lighting face of that cigarette rod and in particular the lighting face of the fuel element appears to have a shape that when viewed perpendicularly to the front face portions and is partially generally circular in nature and partially generally elliptical in nature respectively.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However the angled face rather than forming an essentially flat plane is somewhat curved in nature. As shown in a portion of front face of the cigarette rod is curved in towards the rod in a fashion that can be characterized as somewhat concave in nature. However for an embodiment not shown that concave portion of the front face of the cigarette rod can alternatively be curved outwards from the rod in a fashion that can be characterized as somewhat convex in nature. Most preferably the exposed area of the front face portion of the cigarette that forms a plane generally perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette is less than the exposed area of the front face portion that lies nominally along a plane that is not perpendicular or is angled relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. The angled front face of the cigarette is configured nominally at a position at least about 30 and often at least about 40 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette and up to about 70 and often up to about 60 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette. For example the front face of the cigarette rod lies nominally along a front plane that is positioned at an angle of about 40 to about 50 relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette.

Alternatively the upstream face may have a multi surfaced configuration lying nominally along multiple different planes such that for example for a generally cylindrical cigarette rod having a circumference of about 22 mm to about 25 mm one extreme tip of the wrapping material extends at least about 3 mm often at least about 5 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side i.e. spaced 180 of the front face of that rod. Preferably the extreme tip of the wrapping material extends up to about 15 mm often up to about 10 mm beyond the opposite extreme tip of that wrapping material on the opposite side of the front face of that rod. As such for a cylindrical cigarette rod having a generally circular cross sectional shape the exposed end or the lighting face of that cigarette rod and in particular the lighting face of the fuel element appears to have a shape that when viewed perpendicularly to the front face portions and is partially generally elliptical in nature and partially generally circular in nature respectively.

Referring to there is shown a cigarette that is similar in many regards to the cigarette shown in . However for the embodiment of the front face can be configured so as to possess a somewhat rough jagged or serrated appearance as opposed to a relatively flat form and appearance. For example the edge of the extreme lighting end of the wrapping material can have rather than a smooth or straight cut appearance an appearance resembling that of a saw toothed blade a square wave a scalloped type or wavy type of appearance a shredded type of appearance or other type of roughened or serrated type of appearance. If desired the various embodiments described with reference to also can be configured so as to possess a somewhat rough or serrated type of appearance at the extreme lighting end of particular interest for such an embodiment are cigarettes possessing fuel elements that can possess outwardly facing extreme lighting end surfaces that are rough or textured in nature rather than smooth.

Yet another type of alternate embodiment of a cigarette of the present invention incorporates a cigarette rod possessing an angled lighting end such as the type set forth previously with reference to . Referring now to the mouth end opposite the lighting end of the tobacco rod of a cigarette also can be configured so as to possess an angled end face i.e. rather than an end face that is essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette . Preferably both of the angled end faces and are positioned at essentially identical angles relative to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette e.g. each of the two essentially flat faces is angled at about 45 relative to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette . For such an embodiment it is preferable that the filter element have an angled front face that cooperates with the mouth end face of the tobacco rod e.g. the front face of the filter element is essentially parallel to and is in an essentially abutting relationship with respect to the back face of the tobacco rod . Tipping material circumscribing the filter element and an adjacent region of the tobacco rod is employed to attach the tobacco rod to the filter element.

For such an embodiment as depicted in a plurality of tobacco rods each being similarly angled at both ends can be manufactured using conventional types of automated cigarette rod manufacturing equipment e.g. using cutting knives or rotary cutting wheels that are adapted such as by being positioned at desired angles to slice a continuous tobacco rod into tobacco rod segments of the desired lengths and having front and back end faces that are angled and not perpendicular to their respective longitudinal axes . Preferably the tobacco rod may have different densities along its length such that it is dense ended or packed more densely along locations corresponding to where the angle cut is to be made. Equipment and methods for creating regions of dense tobacco packing in tobacco rods are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 708 695 to Fagg et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. For example the dense packing of the tobacco is created at the rod forming garniture using a pocketed wheel and then the cutting blades are synchronized to cut the continuous tobacco rod at the region of higher tobacco loading density. Each cut tobacco rod then can be attached to a filter element. For example a so called two up filter element may be made with each end sliced at a desired angle e.g. by being manufactured in a traditional type of manner and using cutting knives or rotary cutting wheels that are adapted to slice a continuous filter rod into two up segments and having front and back faces that are angled and not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the that filter segment . Suitable modifications to conventional cigarette tipping machines can be made to align the abutting angled faces of the tobacco rod and filter segment. A tobacco rod is aligned at each end of the two up filter segment and the three segments are tipped to provide a two up cigarette. Then that two up cigarette is sliced in half preferably essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of that cigarette or at any other desired angle to provide two finished cigarettes. As depicted in air holes may be perforated around the filter element as in conventional cigarettes. Instead of locating air holes completely around the filter element the air holes may be perforated in a ring around the juncture of the angled faces and of the tobacco rod and the filter element respectively such that some of the air holes in the ring are in direct communication with the tobacco filler material and other air holes in the ring are in communication with the filter element.

In use cigarettes of the type described with reference to can be used in the following manner. Typically the smoker lights the lighting end of the cigarette using a match or flame type cigarette lighter for example using the techniques used to light cigarettes commercially marketed under the trade name Eclipse by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. Alternatively the cigarettes can be lighted using an electric resistance element type of heating device such as an automobile cigarette lighter. If desired the cigarette can be positioned relative to the flame of match or cigarette lighter so that the exposed lighting end segment of the cigarette rod faces the flame. Alternatively if desired the cigarette can be positioned relative to the flame of match or cigarette lighter so that the exposed lighting end segment of the cigarette rod does not face the flame but rather the wrapping material of the cigarette rod near the lighting end of the cigarette faces the flame. If desired the exposed lighting end segment of the cigarette can be positioned during lighting to face downwards upwards or to one side and in each such situation the tip of the flame of the match or cigarette lighter can be positioned slightly below the extreme lighting end. After being lit the cigarette can be smoked in an essentially normal fashion.

Representative types of tobacco rods can manufactured using a cigarette making machine such as a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 781 203 to La Hue U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0145866 to Hartman 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and 2005 0076929 to Fitzgerald et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. For example descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction conveyor systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 291 713 to Frank U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The automated cigarette making machines of the type set forth herein provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths.

Cigarette rods manufactured in a variety of manners using known types of automated cigarette making techniques can be provided with lighting ends that are not entirely perpendicular to the longitudinal axis thereof. For example conventional cigarettes e.g. filter cigarettes can be manufactured then aligned in a desired position and a knife razor blade circular cutting wheel or the like can be used to slice the lighting end of each cigarette at an angle to provide cigarettes having angled lighting ends. In such a manner cigarettes can be cut to the desired configuration individually or as part of a plurality or collection of cigarettes. In one embodiment a layer or several layers of finished cigarettes can be aligned on a moving conveyor belt or other suitable means such that relevant portions of the lighting ends of those cigarettes extend from the belt within a cutting zone and those cigarettes are aligned so as to be non perpendicular to the axis of movement of the conveyor belt such that a cutting wheel can be configured essentially perpendicular to the axis of movement of the conveyor belt so as to slice off the ends of the cigarette rods of those finished cigarettes and hence provide a plurality of cigarettes each having angled ends or partially angled ends. Alternatively cigarette rods can be manufactured and have ends that are cut in the desired manner e.g. so as to have ends that are not entirely perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each cigarette using appropriately positioned rotating rod cutting wheels. Those rods then can be combined with filter elements using tipping materials using traditional types of filter cigarette manufacturing techniques. Alternatively so called two up cigarette rods can be cut or otherwise subdivided at an angle that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each two up segment so as to provide two cigarette rods that each have angled ends. Such a manner or method is particularly desirable for providing two cigarette rods that each have ends angled at 45 relative to the longitudinal axis of each segment. Those segments then can be combined with other components such as filter elements.

Cigarettes also can be manufactured using the types of equipment and methods set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2006 0272654 to Barnes et al. 2006 0272655 to Thomas et al. and 2007 0006888 to Hicks et al. which are each incorporated herein by reference. In such a regard for example with reference to the devices shown at of these applications formed cigarettes can be positioned in a cartridge or other device for aligning and positioning those cigarettes and the cartridge or aligned device can be adapted so that those cigarettes are positioned at a desired angle with respect to a cutting device aligned in a normal position as depicted. Alternatively the cutting device support may be positioned or tilted at a desired angle with respect to the cartridge having cigarettes aligned in a normal position as depicted. As a result a circular cutting wheel or other cutting device can be used to trim the lighting ends of those cigarettes such that those cigarettes each have angled ends i.e. ends that are not essentially entirely perpendicular to the longitudinally axis of each cigarette .

Cigarettes and the components thereof also can be of the type set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0215167 to Crooks et al. In such a regard lighting end segments or cigarettes incorporating those lighting end segments can be cut sliced or formed in the desired manner. Alternatively so called two up lighting end segments can be cut or otherwise subdivided at an angle that is not perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of each two up segment so as to provide two lighting end segments that each have angled ends. Such a manner or method is particularly desirable for providing lighting end segments that each have ends angled at 45 relative to the longitudinal axis of each segment. Those segments so formed then can be combined with other components of those types of smoking articles. Alternatively finished cigarettes can have their ends cut sliced or otherwise formed into the desired shape or configuration.

Various types of cigarette components including tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials blend packing densities and types of paper wrapping materials for cigarette rods can be employed. See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics that are set forth in Johnson 52T.S.R.C. September 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 101 839 to Jakob et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 159 944 to Arzonico et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 530 to Kraker U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0016556 to Ashcraft et al. 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. and 2006 0272655 to Thomas et al U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 408 625 filed Apr. 21 2006 to Oglesby and Ser. No. 11 696 416 to Marshall et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most preferably the entire smokable rod is composed of smokable material e.g. tobacco cut filler and a layer of circumscribing outer wrapping material.

Components for filter elements for filtered cigarettes typically are provided from filter rods that are produced using traditional types of rod forming units such as those available as KDF 2 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. Typically filter material such as filter tow is provided using a tow processing unit. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Byrne U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 664 to Siems et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al. Other types of technologies for supplying filter materials to a filter rod forming unit are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker which are incorporated herein by reference.

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Suitable plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers ranging in porosity from about 1 100 CORESTA units to about 26 000 CORESTA units are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 70 M9 95 M9 150 M4 150 M9 240M9S 260 M4 and 260 M4T and from Miquel y Costas as 22HP90 and 22HP150. Non porous plug wrap materials typically exhibit porosities of less than about 40 CORESTA units and often less than about 20 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic as PW646 Wattenspapier of Austria as FY 33060 Miquel y Costas of Spain as 646 and Schweitzer Mauduit International as MR650 and 180. Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate nitrocellulose nitrocellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

Cigarette filter rods can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods then can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles dispersed within cellulose acetate tow e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod produced essentially of flavored plasticized cellulose acetate tow filter material at the other end. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that traditionally have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany. Representative types of filter designs and components including representative types of segmented cigarette filters are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 920 990 to Lawrence et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker U.S. Pat. No. 5 074 320 to Jones et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 838 to White et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 909 to Gentry et al and U.S. Pat. No. 5 718 250 to Banerjee et al U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and 2007 0056600 to Coleman III et al. and PCT Publication Nos. WO 03 009711 to Kim and. WO 03 047836 to Xue et al. which are incorporated herein by reference.

The length of the filter element of each cigarette can vary. Typically the overall length of a filter element is about 20 mm to about 40 mm and often about 25 mm to about 35 mm. For a typical dual segment filter element the downstream or mouth end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm and the upstream or tobacco rod end filter segment often has a length of about 10 mm to about 20 mm.

Filter elements or filter segment components of combination filters typically are provided from filter rods that are manufactured using traditional types of cigarette filter rod making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 850 301 to Greene Jr. et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0103355 to Holmes 2005 1094014 to Read Jr. and 2006 0169295 to Draghetti each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture.

The tipping material can vary. Typical tipping materials are papers exhibiting relatively high opacities. Representative tipping materials have TAPPI opacities of greater than about 81 percent often in the range of about 84 percent to about 90 percent and sometimes greater than about 90 percent. Typical tipping materials are printed with inks typically nitrocellulose based which can provide for a wide variety of appearances and lip release properties. Representative tipping papers materials have basis weights ranging from about 25 m mto about 60 g m often about 30 g mto about 40 g m. Representative tipping papers are available as Tervakoski Reference Nos. 3121 3124 TK 652 TK674 TK675 A360 and A362 and Schweitzer Mauduit International Reference Nos. GSR270 and GSR265M2. See also for example the types of tipping materials the methods for combining cigarette components using tipping materials and techniques for wrapping various portions of cigarettes using tipping materials that are set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0215167 to Crooks etaal

The following examples are provided in order to further illustrate the present invention but should not be construed as limiting the scope thereof.

Filter cigarettes that are manufactured using automated cigarette making machine technology are provided. Those cigarettes incorporate tobacco rods composed of an American blend of tobaccos in cut filler form. The tobacco cut filler is cased and flavored. The tobacco rods possess an outer layer of paper wrapping material that circumscribes the tobacco cut filler such that each end of the cylindrical rods so formed is open to expose the tobacco within that rod. Each tobacco rod has a length of about 57 mm and a circumference of about 25 mm. Each cigarette possesses a filter element composed of cellulose acetate plasticized using triacetin and the length of each filter element is about 27 mm. The tipping paper that connects each filter element to each tobacco rod circumscribes the length of each filter element and about 4 mm of the adjacent region of the tobacco rod. A circumscribing ring of laser perforations through the tipping material and plug wrap of each cigarette provides cigarettes that are air diluted. A razor blade or scissors is used to cut a portion of the tobacco rod from certain cigarettes at the extreme lighting ends of those cigarettes. The cigarettes have the general appearance of the cigarette described previously with reference to . The angled straight cut at the lighting end of each tobacco rod is at about 45 relative to the longitudinal axis of each cigarette. For those cigarettes having angled lighting ends no further treatment of those cigarette ends is provided i.e. no chemical additives are added to the exposed end of the cigarette or to the wrapping material of the tobacco rod in the lighting region of the cigarette . However if desired the cigarettes may be held upright filter end down and tapped lightly several times on a table or counter top in order to provide for some compaction of the tobacco cut filler within the tobacco rod or tobacco cut filler at the lighting end of the cigarette can be pressed lightly into the tobacco rod in a type of dense ending fashion.

Such cigarettes are provided and comparison cigarettes i.e. a comparable cigarette not having a lighting end segment cut therefrom and hence having a lighting end that is essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette rather than angled end each are smoked under FTC smoking conditions. The cigarettes are lit using an electrical resistance heating unit.

For the cigarette having the angled end the lighting puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.49 mg a nicotine yield of 0.035 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.32 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the lighting puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.97 mg a nicotine yield of 0.065 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 1.33 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the second puff exhibits a tar yield of 1.25 mg a nicotine yield of 0.098 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 1.1 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the second puff exhibits a tar yield of 1.1 mg a nicotine yield of 0.093 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 1.04 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the third puff exhibits a tar yield of 1.43 mg a nicotine yield of 0.118 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 1.19 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the third puff exhibits a tar yield of 1.28 mg a nicotine yield of 0.110 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 1.12 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the fourth puff exhibits a tar yield of 1.52 mg a nicotine yield of 0.126 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 1.13 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the fourth puff exhibits a tar yield of 1.46 mg a nicotine yield of 0.112 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 1.18 mg.

The results demonstrate that the smoke yield and composition i.e. smoke chemistry of an early puff e.g. the lighting puff of a cigarette can be altered relative to a cigarette of traditional configuration by altering the configuration of the lighting end of a cigarette.

Cigarettes marketed under the trade name Eclipse by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company are obtained. A razor blade is used to slice away a portion of the lighting end of each cigarette and as such cigarettes of the type described previously with reference to are provided. The angled straight cut of each lighting end is at about 45 relative to the longitudinal axis of each cigarette and as such the entire lighting end of the carbonaceous fuel element is angled at about 45 relative to the longitudinal axis of each cigarette. For those cigarettes having angled lighting ends no further treatment of those cigarette ends is provided i.e. no chemical additives are added to the exposed end of the cigarette or to the wrapping material of the tobacco rod in the lighting region of the cigarette .

Such cigarettes are provided and comparison cigarettes i.e. a comparable cigarette not having a lighting end segment cut therefrom and hence having a lighting end that is essentially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the cigarette rather than angled end each are smoked under FTC smoking conditions. The cigarettes are lit using an electrical resistance heating unit.

For the cigarette having the angled end the lighting puff exhibits a tar yield that is negligible a nicotine yield that is negligible and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.42 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the lighting puff exhibits a tar yield that is negligible a nicotine yield that is negligible and a carbon monoxide yield of 1.10 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the second puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.49 mg a nicotine yield of 0.013 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.27 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the second puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.67 mg a nicotine yield of 0.018 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.45 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the third puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.66 mg a nicotine yield of 0.027 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.33 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the third puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.80 mg a nicotine yield of 0.034 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.47 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the fourth puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.66 mg a nicotine yield of 0.030 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.32 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the fourth puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.83 mg a nicotine yield of 0.036 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.46 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the fifth puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.63 mg a nicotine yield of 0.026 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.28 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the fifth puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.85 mg a nicotine yield of 0.033 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.47 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the sixth puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.42 mg a nicotine yield of 0.017 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.21 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the sixth puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.72 mg a nicotine yield of 0.027 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.40 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the seventh puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.17 mg a nicotine yield of 0.009 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.14 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the seventh puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.43 mg a nicotine yield of 0.018 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.29 mg.

For the cigarette having the angled end the eighth puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.06 mg a nicotine yield of 0.004 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.095 mg. For the traditional cigarette not having the angled end the eighth puff exhibits a tar yield of 0.23 mg a nicotine yield of 0.011 mg and a carbon monoxide yield of 0.19 mg.

The results illustrate that the smoke yield and composition i.e. smoke chemistry of the lighting puff and early puffs of a cigarette can be altered relative to a cigarette of traditional configuration by altering the configuration of the lighting end of a cigarette. The smoke constituents identified in the examples are tar nicotine and carbon monoxide. Substantial reduction of all three smoke constituents is obtained at differing puffs. No chemical treatment of the lighting end of the smoking article is required to obtain smoke constituent reduction. No chemical or mechanical attenuator is required to be added into the cigarette rod to obtain smoke constituent reduction however chemical treatment or physical attenuator components that supplement smoke constituent reduction may be used. Accordingly it is preferred to have the lighting end of the smoking article configured to have an exposed end surface in fashioned in manners as described above such that the surface area of the exposed end surface is sufficiently greater than the cross sectional area of the smoking article to reduce the quantity of one or more smoke constituents such as tar nicotine or carbon monoxide by at least 20 averaged over one or more puffs preferably including the initial puff and more preferably over a sequence of at least four sequential puffs of the smoking article compared to a smoking article of the same composition have an exposed end surface in a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the smoking article. Preferably the reduction of one or more smoke constituents is at least 25 more preferably at least 30 .

Many modifications and other aspects of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present invention can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific aspects disclosed and that modifications and other aspects are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

