---

title: Multi-pane display capture, aggregation, and sharing
abstract: Various embodiments herein include one or more of systems, methods, and software for multi-pane display capture, aggregation, and sharing. Some such embodiments include generating an image on a computing device to share with participants in a web conference meeting by capturing a first image of a first graphic display output layer and a second graphic display output layer and removing a portion of the first image. Some embodiments may also include capturing a second image of the second graphic display output layer and combining the first and second images to form a third image. The third image may then be sent to one or more participants of the web conference meeting. The first graphic display output layer may include an overlay pane graphical output of a computing device and the second graphic display output layer may include a standard pane graphical output of the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600221&OS=09600221&RS=09600221
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 09600221
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071101
---
Web conferencing allows a presenter to share a desktop view from a computer with one or more web conference participants over a network such as the Internet. There are many providers of web conferencing services using several web conferencing applications that are currently available.

Various embodiments described herein include one or more of systems methods and software that enable a web conference presenter to share a view of a computer screen with web conference participants without sharing a view of all application user interfaces included within the video output of a presenter s computing device. Some embodiments prevent one or more application user interfaces from being shared in the web conference. Some such embodiments allow a presenter to designate one or more application user interfaces as not to be shared. In a typical embodiment a user interface control of a web conferencing application is not shared with web conference participants. These and other embodiments are described in greater detail below.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limited sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. Further described functions may correspond to modules which may be software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

Computers today often provide a view of a desktop workspace including two panes that together provide a full image of the desktop workspace. These panes are commonly referred to as a standard desktop or base pane and an overlay pane. Most application user interfaces such as word processing application and web browser application user interfaces are displayed in the standard pane. The overlay pane currently is not heavily used but is used by some applications such as by video presentation applications that may provide a full screen view of video in the overlay pane. The overlay pane is transparent except in locations where user interfaces or other controls are displayed.

Some web conferencing applications provide a user interface in the overlay pane of a presenter. In such applications the standard pane alone may be shared to keep the shared desktop view from being unnecessarily cluttered or disrupted by the presenter user interface. Other web conferencing applications share both the standard pane and the overlay pane.

Some embodiments as described below share not only the standard pane but also the overlay pane. However such embodiments may be operable to remove one or more user interfaces from the shared overlay pane such as a web conferencing application user interface. Removing the web conferencing application user interface prevents the shared desktop view from being unnecessarily cluttered by a control that is not a part of a presentation. Also in some embodiments the web conferencing application user interface may include a text chat type control to allow the presenter to receive text based messages from participants. Some messages may include confidential information or other information that should not be shared with all web conference participants. Thus such embodiments that remove the web conferencing application user interface and or other user interfaces from the desktop view shared with web conference participants allow a presenter to maintain a degree of confidentiality with regard to such user interfaces.

In example embodiments a computing device generating the aggregated display image generates the standard pane image separately from the overlay pane image and then overlays the overlay pane image on top of the standard pane image. The overlay pane image may be overlaid upon the standard pane image utilizing one or both of operating system functions and graphical output generation circuit functions such as functions of a graphics card.

In some embodiments the captured images and are captured by on a web conference presenter s computing device by making a call to an application programming interface API of an operating system. The API call may include making a Microsoft Windows API call to obtain an image to be captured. An example of such an API is the BITBLT API in modern Microsoft Windows operating system.

The first graphic display output layer in some embodiments of the method is the graphic display output including the overlay pane. Thus the second graphic display output layer in such embodiments is the standard layer. Although this is a typical embodiment there is no requirement that the first and second layer are the only layers output by a computing device that may be processed utilizing the method or that the overlay pane be the first graphic display output layer and the standard pane be the second graphic display output layer. Some embodiments may include three or more layers processed individually by expanded embodiments of the method for processing each of the three or more layers.

In some embodiments the portion removed from the first image may be a portion of the first image associated with a graphical user interface control of a web conferencing application. The removal may be performed by a process within such a web conferencing application that is aware of the position of the graphical user interface control of the web conferencing application within the first captured image. In other embodiments such a process may obtain location information of a user interface to be removed from the first captured image by making a call to an application programming interface of an application to which the user interface belongs or is otherwise associated with or of an operating system.

Removing the portion of the first image may include identifying a portion of the first image associated with a first application such as a web conferencing application or other application that contributes to the captured first image and removing the portion of the first image associated with the first application.

In some embodiments of the method sending the third image to one or more participants of the web conference meeting includes sending the third image to a web conferencing server to be distributed to each of the one or more participants of the web conference meeting. The sending of the third image to the server or directly to the one or more participants of the web conference meeting is typically performed several times per second. Thus in such embodiments the method is performed to generate and send the third image to the one or more participants of the web conference meeting several times per second. The rate at which the method is performed may be at a rate equal to a frame per second rate at which a web conferencing application provides images to the one or more participants of the web conference meeting. The frame per second rate is may be virtually any rate such as a rate between two and eight frames per second nine or ten frames per second or more but may be virtually any rate that is supported by the computing resources available to perform the method .

Although the user interfaces within the overlay pane have been illustrated in and as non overlapping this may not always be the case. In some embodiments overlapping of user interfaces in the overlay pane may be identified before images are captured for a web conference. In such embodiments user interface locations may be identified and processed in view of one another such as by comparing X and Y coordinates of the user interfaces within the overlay pane. If user interfaces are found to overlap a process may causes one or more of the user interfaces to be relocated to remove the overlapping. In other embodiments the web conferencing application may request that the user interfaces be relocated before starting the web conference image capturing. However some embodiments may include methods such as method of to handle overlapping of user interfaces. An example illustration of how user interfaces may overlap within the overlay pane is illustrated in and how such overlapping may be handled is illustrated in and .

The captured image includes the web conferencing application meeting window user interface and the other overlay pane application user interface as described above. However the captured image includes an intersection area where the web conferencing application meeting window user interface and the other overlay pane application user interface overlap. When the captured image is processed to remove the web conferencing application meeting window user interface such as according to method illustrated and described with regard to the intersection area is also removed as illustrated in the modified image of . In such instances where the user interface that is not removed from the captured image is located on top of the user interface to be removed the intersection area may be copied from the captured image and placed back within the modified image as illustrated in . provides further detail as to a method of processing captured images in such instances.

In some further instances rather than a user interface to remain in the modified image being on top of a user interface to be removed the user interface to be removed may be on top. Such instances may be handled in some embodiments by maintaining a cached image copy of the user interface that is to remain in the modified image. Thus a missing portion of the user interface that is to remain in the modified image may be copied from the cached copy and overlaid into the modified image. However as mentioned above different embodiments may include automatically moving or prompting a user to move the user interfaces in the overlay pane to prevent such a scenario from occurring.

Computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the computer . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a computer readable medium. The computer instructions on the computer readable medium may include instructions of a computer program capable of performing one or more of the methods described above. In some embodiments the computer program is a web conferencing application that may be used by a presenter of a web conference.

Some further embodiments provide a system including one or more video output modules operable to generate video output from the system including a standard pane and an overlay pane. The system may further include a network interface and a web conferencing module operable to share video output from the one or more video output modules with web conference meeting participants over the network interface. The web conferencing module is typically operable to capture a first image of both the overlay pane and the standard pane and remove a portion of the capture first image. The web conferencing module may be further operable to capture a second image of only the standard pane output by the one or more video output modules and combine the first and second images to form a third image. The third image may then be sent to the web conference meeting participants over the network interface.

Another embodiment provides a computer readable medium with instructions thereon which when executed cause a computer to capture a first image of both the overlay pane and standard pane generated by one or more video output modules of a computer and delete a portion of the first image so as to make the deleted portion of the first image transparent. The instructions may be further operable to capture a second image of a second graphic display output layer and combine the first and second images to form a third image to be shared with one or more participants of the web conference meeting.

It is emphasized that the Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment to streamline the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the inventive subject matter require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

