---

title: Stat3 inhibitor having anti-cancer activity and methods
abstract: A small-molecule Stat3 dimerization inhibitor, S3I-M2001, is described and the dynamics of intracellular processing of activated Stat3 within the context of the biochemical and biological effects of the Stat3 chemical probe inhibitor are elucidated. S3I-M2001 is a newly-identified oxazole-based peptidomimetic of the Stat3 Src Homology (SH) 2 domain-binding phosphotyrosine peptide that selectively disrupts active Stat3:Stat3 dimers. Stat3-dependent malignant transformation, survival, and migration and invasion of mouse and human cancer cells harboring persistently-activated Stat3 were inhibited by S3I-M2001. S3I-M2001 inhibited Stat3-dependent transcriptional regulation of tumor survival genes, such as Bcl-xL. The disclosed compound is useful as a new potential treatment for certain cancers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08609639&OS=08609639&RS=08609639
owner: University of Central Florida Research Foundation, Inc.
number: 08609639
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071205
---
The present application is a national phase application of International Application No. PCT US2007 086453 filed on Dec. 5 2007 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 868 794 filed on Dec. 6 2006 each of which is incorporated by reference herein it its entirety.

This invention was made with support from the U.S. Government under Grant CA 106439 awarded to James Turkson by the National Cancer Institute. Accordingly the government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the field of cellular biology and more particularly to a novel inhibitor effective against at least one protein of a certain family of proteins of importance in cancer cell physiology and known as Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription STAT .

STAT proteins were originally discovered as latent cytoplasmic transcription factors that mediate cytokine and growth factor responses 1 2 . Seven members of the family Stat1. Stat2. Stat3. Stat4. Stat5a and Stat5b and Stat6 mediate several physiological effects including growth and differentiation survival development and inflammation. STATs are SH2 domain containing proteins. Upon ligand binding to cytokine or growth factor receptors. STATs become phosphorylated on critical Tyr residue Tyr705 for Stat3 by growth factor receptors cytoplasmic Janus kinases Jaks or Src family kinases. Two phosphorylated and activated STAT monomers dimerize through reciprocal pTyr SH2 domain interactions translocate to the nucleus and bind to specific DNA response elements of target genes thereby inducing gene transcription 1 2 . In contrast to normal STAT signaling many human solid and hematological tumors harbor aberrant Stat3 activity 3 8 for reviews .

Constitutive Stat3 activity mediates dysregulated growth and survival angiogenesis as well as suppresses the host s immune surveillance of the tumor making constitutively active Stat3 a critical molecular mediator of carcinogenesis and tumor progression.

Genetic and other molecular evidence reveals persistent Tyr phosphorylation of Stat3 is mediated by aberrant upstream Tyr kinases and shows cancer cell requirement for constitutively active and dimerized Stat3 for tumor maintenance and progression. Thus in numerous proof of concept studies 9 13 inhibition of Stat3 activation or disruption of dimerization induces cancer cell death and tumor regression. How aberrant Stat3 is regulated for meeting the tumor specific requirements in malignant cells remains undefined. There have been no studies into defining the molecular details of how malignant cells regulate aberrant Stat3 and how this regulation changes upon Stat3 inhibition prior to the onset of phenotypic changes although knowing these events will facilitate efforts in modulating aberrant Stat3 for managing human cancers. Small molecule Stat3 inhibitors thus provide tools for probing the molecular dynamics of the cellular processing of Stat3 to understand Stat3 s role as a signaling intermediate and a molecular mediator of the events leading to carcinogenesis and malignant progression.

The computational analysis of the interaction between the Stat3 SH2 domain binding pTyr peptide sequence and the SH2 domain per the X ray crystal structure of Stat3b bound to DNA 14 can generate valuable information about key structural requirements for the Stat3 Stat3 dimer formation that will facilitate the design of effective small molecules to disrupt the dimer. Such molecules can be used for therapeutic purposes and as tools for investigating the regulation of Stat3 protein. In the molecular modeling of the Stat3 pTyr SH2 domain interaction the peptidomimetic inhibitor ISS 610 10 derived from the Stat3 SH2 domain binding pTyr Y peptide PY LKTK 9 was used as a chemical probe for interrogating the Stat3 Stat3 dimer interface in order to derive non peptide mimics.

Herein we describe the design and characterization of a novel oxazole based peptidomimetic designated S3I M2001 as a selective disruptor of Stat3 Stat3 dimerization and inhibitor of Stat3 activation. We also describe our study of the stability and intracellular processing of aberrant Stat3 within the context of the activity of S3I M2001 as a Stat3 inhibitor.

Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription Stat 3 is hyperactivated in many human tumors and represents a valid target for small molecule anticancer drug design. We present a novel small molecule Stat3 dimerization inhibitor S3I M2001 and describe the dynamics of intracellular processing of activated Stat3 within the context of the biochemical and biological effects of the Stat3 chemical probe inhibitor. S3I M2001 is a newly identified oxazole based peptidomimetic of the Stat3 Src Homology SH 2 domain binding phosphotyrosine peptide that selectively disrupts active Stat3 Stat3 dimers. Consequently hyperactivated Stat3 which hitherto occurs as dot like structures of nuclear bodies undergoes an early aggregation into non functional perinuclear aggresomes and a late phase proteasome mediated degradation in malignant cells treated with S3I M2001. Thus S3I M2001 inhibited Stat3 dependent transcriptional regulation of tumor survival genes such as Bcl xL. Furthermore. Stat3 dependent malignant transformation survival and migration and invasion of mouse and human cancer cells harboring persistently activated Stat3 were inhibited by S3I M2001. The ectopic expression of Stat3 SH2 domain rescued cells from S3I M2001 induced apoptotic effects further confirming a dimerization inhibition mechanism. Finally S3I M2001 inhibited growth of human breast tumor xenografts. The study identifies a novel Stat3 inhibitor S3I M2001 and provides evidence for antitumor cell effects mediated in part through a biphasic loss of functional Stat3. The disclosed study represents the first on intracellular Stat3 stability and processing following inhibition by a small molecule that has significant antitumor activity.

With the foregoing in mind the present invention advantageously provides a compound designated as S3I M2001 and having a chemical structure according that shown in or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The invention further includes a pharmaceutically acceptable composition containing the compound shown in . In one preferred embodiment of the invention a pharmaceutically acceptable composition contains the compound S3I M2001 in an effective amount for inhibiting Stat3 dimerization upon contacting a mammalian cell.

Method aspects of the invention include treating a mammalian cell having a dysfunctional Stat3 protein the method comprising contacting the cell with the compound S3I M2001 or with a composition containing the compound. Treatment also includes inhibiting a mammalian cell harboring constitutively active Stat3 by contacting the cell with an effective amount of the compound S3I M2001 or a composition containing the compound so as to inhibit the Stat3 activity in the cell. For example in a method of treating human breast or pancreatic cancer characterized by a constitutively active level of Stat3 the method comprises administering a sufficient amount of the compound S3I M2001 or a composition containing it to contact cancer cells in the patient s breast or pancreas.

Alternatively a patient may be treated to inhibit growth of a human breast cancer tumor by administering to the patient a sufficient amount of the compound of S3I M2001 or a composition containing S3I M2001. More broadly viewed the invention includes a method of inhibiting migration of a malignant cell the method comprising contacting the cell with S3I M2001 as the compound or in a pharmaceutically acceptable composition.

The present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which preferred embodiments of the invention are shown. Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention pertains. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described below. Any publications patent applications patents or other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including any definitions will control. In addition the materials methods and examples given are illustrative in nature only and not intended to be limiting. Accordingly this invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the illustrated embodiments set forth herein. Rather these illustrated embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description and from the claims.

Abbreviations used herein are as generally accepted and used by those skilled in the art and include the following STAT signal transducer and activator of transcription PBS phosphate buffered saline EMSA electrophoretic mobility shift assay FBS fetal bovine serum PMSF phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride and PNPP p nitrophenyl phosphate YFP yellow fluorescent protein GFP green fluorescent protein CVFF consistent valence forcefield and CCDC Cambridge Crystallographic Data Center.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that this invention encompasses pharmaceutical compositions and dosage forms containing the disclosed compound of the invention as an active ingredient. A pharmaceutically acceptable composition is compatible with the subject s physiology and may contain one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients. Some of these pharmaceutical compositions may be single unit dosage forms suitable for oral topical mucosal e.g. nasal pulmonary sublingual vaginal buccal or rectal parenteral e.g. subcutaneous intravenous bolus injection intramuscular or intraarterial or transdermal administration to a patient. As known to the skilled examples of dosage forms include without limitation tablets caplets capsules such as soft elastic gelatin capsules cachets troches lozenges dispersions suppositories ointments poultices pastes powders dressings creams plasters solutions patches aerosols such as nasal sprays or inhalers gels liquid dosage forms for oral or mucosal administration including aqueous or non aqueous liquid suspensions oil in water emulsions or water in oil liquid emulsions solutions and elixirs liquid dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration to a patient and sterile solids such as crystalline or amorphous solids that can be reconstituted to provide liquid dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration to a patient.

The skilled will also know that a formulation should suit the mode of administration. For example oral administration may require an enteric coating to help protect the active ingredient from degradation in the gastrointestinal tract. The S3I M2001 may also be administered in a liposomal formulation to shield it from enzymes that may degrade it to facilitate transport in the blood and to aid in its delivery across cell membranes.

The composition of S3I M2001 shape and type of dosage forms of the invention will typically vary depending on the intended use. Thus it would follow that in the acute treatment of a disease the dosage may contain larger amounts of the compound whereas in the chronic treatment of the same disease a lower dosage may suffice. Likewise smaller amounts of S3I M2001 may be used in a parenteral dose than in an dose form used to treat the same disease. The ways in which specific dosage forms for the invention may be changed will be appreciated by the skilled particularly with reference to a recognized treatise such as 18th ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1990 .

As used herein the term Stat refers to signal transducers and activators of transcription which represent a family of proteins that when activated by protein tyrosine kinases in the cytoplasm of the cell migrate to the nucleus and activate gene transcription. Examples of mammalian STATs include STAT 1 STAT2 STAT3 STAT4 STAT5a STAT5b and STATE.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug is intended to describe any form such as an ester phosphate ester salt of an ester or a related group of a compound of the invention which upon administration to a subject provides the mature or base compound e.g. the Stat3 inhibitory compound S3I M2001 . Pharmaceutically compatible salts include those derived from inorganic or organic bases and acids which are compatible with the subject s physiology. Suitable salts include those derived from alkali metals such as potassium and sodium alkaline earth metals such as calcium and magnesium among numerous other acids well known in the pharmaceutical art. Pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs refer to a compound that is metabolized for example hydrolyzed or oxidized in the host to form the compound of the present invention. Typical examples of prodrugs include compounds that have biologically labile protecting groups on a functional moiety of the active compound. Prodrugs include compounds that can be oxidized reduced aminated deaminated hydroxylated dehydroxylated hydrolyzed dehydrolyzed alkylated dealkylated acylated deacylated phosphorylated dephosphorylated to produce the active compound.

The terms signaling and signaling transduction represent the biochemical process involving transmission of extracellular stimuli via cell surface receptors through a specific and sequential series of molecules to genes in the nucleus resulting in specific cellular responses to the stimuli.

 Constitutive activation and constitutively active as in the constitutive activation of the STAT pathway refers to a condition where there is an abnormally elevated level of tyrosine phosphorylated STAT3 within a given cell s . e.g. cancer cells as compared to a corresponding normal e.g. non cancer or non transformed cell. Constitutive activation of STAT3 has been exhibited in a large variety of malignancies including for example breast carcinoma cell lines primary breast tumor specimens ovarian cancer cell lines and tumors multiple myeloma tumor specimens and blood malignancies such as acute myelogenous leukemia as described in published PCT international application WO 00 44774 Jove. R. et al. the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Methods for determining whether a human or non human mammalian cell or subject has abnormally high levels of constitutively activated Stat3 are known in the art and are described for example in U.S. patent publication 2004 0138189 A1 and PCT publication 02 078617 A each of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Optionally the methods of the invention further comprise identifying a patient suffering from a condition e.g. cancer associated with an abnormally elevated level of tyrosine phosphorylated STAT3 or determining whether the cancer cells can be characterized as having abnormally elevated levels of tyrosine phosphorylated Stat3.

As used herein the terms treat treating or treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer or other proliferation disorder. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. For example treatment with a compound of the invention may include reduction of undesirable cell proliferation and or induction of apoptosis and cytotoxicity. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented or onset delayed. Optionally the patient may be identified e.g. diagnosed as one suffering from the disease or condition e.g. proliferation disorder prior to administration of the Stat3 inhibitor of the invention.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount of the compound of the invention or a composition containing the compound effective to treat a disease or disorder in a mammal or a mammalian cell. In the case of cancer or other proliferation disorder the therapeutically effective amount of the agent may reduce i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop unwanted cellular proliferation reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth reduce Stat3 signaling in the target cells such as by inhibiting the binding of DNA and Stat3 and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the administered compound or composition prevents growth and or kills existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms inhibit or inhibitory amount when referring to the compound of the invention indicate an amount which slows or stops growth or proliferation of a target cell such as a tumor cell either in vitro or in vivo irrespective of the mechanism by which cell growth is inhibited e.g. by cytostatic properties cytotoxic properties etc. .

The terms cell and cells are used interchangeably herein and are intended to include either a single cell or a plurality of cells in vitro or in vivo unless otherwise specified.

Normal mouse fibroblasts NIH3T3 and counterparts transformed by v Src transformed NIH3T3 v Src v Ras NIH3T3 v Ras or overexpressing the human EGFR NIH3T3 hEGFR human breast cancer MDA MB 435 MDA MB 453 MDA MB 231 and MDA MB 468 immortalized human breast epithelial cells. MCF 10A and pancreatic cancer Panc 1 cell lines have all been previously described 9 12 17 18 40 . Human umbilical vein cells HUVEC was a kind gift Dr. S. Chellappan of Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute Tampa Fla. . Cells were grown in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium DMEM containing 5 iron supplemented bovine calf serum MCF 10A were grown in DMEM F12 media supplemented with 5 FBS 10 mg mL 1 insulin 500 ng mL 1 hydrocortisone 20 ng mL 1 EGF and 100 ng mL 1 cholera toxin. HUVEC cells were grown in Ham s F12k medium with 2 mM L glutamine containing 1.5 g L 1 sodium bicarbonate and supplemented with 0.1 mg mL 1 heparin and 0.03 mg mL 1 endothelial cell growth supplement and 10 FBS. WST 1 viability assay reagent was obtained from Roche and TUNEL assay kit was from BD Biosciences Pharmingen. Each treatment condition is a single dose at the indicated concentration or 0.1 DMSO vehicle as control. Anti Hook2 antibody was from Santa Cruz. Plasmids. The pLucTKS3 and pLucSRE luciferase reporters have been previously reported 17 19 .

As a first step towards designing new Stat3 inhibitors as probes or novel anticancer therapeutics molecular modeling of the Stat3 SH2 domain was performed. The Stat3 SH2 domain contains trigonal arrangement of shallow pockets deemed accessible by suitably substituted heterocyclic scaffolds such as the oxazole S3I M2001. Docking of S3I M2001 into Stat3 was performed using the GOLD software 15 by CCDC. Compounds were drawn with Insight II Accelrys and energy minimized to a local minimum using the CVFF forcefield. The Stat3 protein was prepared for use in GOLD by adding Hydrogen atoms to the X ray crystal structure 1BG1.pdb 14. Compounds were docked by GOLD 10 times each using default settings within GOLD and were scored using the default GOLDScore scoring function. Maximum ligand flexibility was allowed during docking cycles by allowing ring flipping amide cis trans alteration and amine flipping. After 10 dockings the conformation with the highest score for each compound was considered and analyzed.

The design strategy for the construction of the oxazole scaffold was carried out using standard synthetic procedures following the principle of rapid incorporation of structural diversity into an acyclic precursor with subsequent late stage aromatization providing the desired heteroaryl array 41 .

Infect of Sf 9 cells with Stat1 Stat3 Jak1 and c Src recombinant baculoviruses and preparation of the cell lysates containing activated Stat1 or Stat3 have been previously described 9 21 .

In the previously reported dissociation reassociation analysis 9 10 20 two independently prepared cell lysate one containing only activated Stat3 Stat3 dimer and the other containing only activated Stat1 Stat1 dimer 21 were mixed together and pre treated with or without increasing concentration of S3I M2001 and subjected to STAT DNA binding assay with EMSA analysis.

Nuclear extract preparation from cells and EMSA were carried out as previously described 9 12 16 18 40 . Nuclear extract preparations from v Src transformed NIH3T3 v Src or EGF stimulated NIH3T3 hEGFR fibroblasts or tumor cell lines were subjected to EMSA. The 32P labeled oligonucleotide probe used was hSIE high affinity sis inducible element from the c fos gene m67 variant as reported by Wagner et al. 42 and that binds Stat1 and Stat3. Except where indicated inhibitor compound was pre incubated with the nuclear extract for 30 min at room temperature prior to incubation with radiolabeled hSIE probe. Where necessary cells were stimulated with recombinant human EGF rhEGF for 5 15 min prior to preparation of nuclear extracts. Bands corresponding to DNA binding activities were scanned and quantified for each concentration of compound and plotted as percent of control vehicle against concentration of compound from which the IC50 values were derived as previously reported 9 10 42 .

Whole cell lysates prepared in boiling SDS sample loading buffer. i.p. from lysates using monoclonal anti Stat3 antibody Cell Signaling Technology and the probing of nitrocellulose membranes with primary antibodies and detection of horseradish peroxidase conjugated secondary antibodies by enhanced chemiluminescence Amersham Biosciences were done as previously described 13 17 19 21 . The probes used were anti Stat3 Santa Cruz anti pTyr705Stat3 Cell Signaling Technology anti YFP antibodies Santa Cruz anti Bcl xL anti pSrc anti Src anti pJak1 anti Jak1 anti pEr1 2 and anti Erk1 2 and b actin Cell Signaling Technology .

The indirect peroxidase antiperoxidase test was performed on cytospins prepared from cell lines control and treated with 50 mM S3I M2001 for 48 h . Immunostaining was performed for pY705Stat3 with a rabbit anti human polyclonal pYStat3 antibody Cell Signaling Technology and for Bcl xL with rabbit monoclonal E18 antibody Abcam Inc. Cambridge Mass. with rabbit immunoglobulins as negative controls using avidin biotin peroxidase complexes Vector Laboratories Burlingame Calif. . After incubation and blocking of endogenous peroxidase and nonspecific background staining in 3 hydrogen peroxide and methanol for 20 min slides were washed with PBS treated with 1.5 normal serum and 3 BSA and incubated with the pY705Stat3 or Bcl xL primary antibodies overnight at 4 C. Slides were rinsed in PBS and incubated with a biotinylated secondary antibody Vector Laboratories for 60 min followed by incubation with avidin biotin peroxidase complex for 1 h at room temperature. Chromagen was developed with Nova Red. All slides were counterstained with hematoxylin for 30 s before dehydration and mounting. PhosphoY705Stat3 or Bcl xL positive cells were stained red due to Nova Red and negative cells were stained blue due to hematoxylin .

An ELISA assay for the binding of Lck SH2 domain with its conjugate phosphopeptide biotinyl e Ac EPQpYEEIEL OH was carried out as previously described 13 22 . Absorbance reading 450 nm for the peroxidase reaction was determined with an ELISA plate reader.

NIH3T3 vSrc cells were either stably transfected with Stat3 YFP construct 23 or growing in 96 well plates on chamber slides were transiently transfected with the Stat3 YFP plasmid 23 using Lipofectamine 2000 for 24 h according to the manufacturer s protocol Roche treated with or without S3I M2001 for different times and examined under Nikon Eclipse TE200 fluorescence microscope Nikon . Images were captured and processed by NIKON NIS element Basic research software.

NIH3T3 hEGFR cells were grown in multi cell plates and treated with or without S3I M2001 for 3 h prior to stimulation by rhEGF 10 ng ml for 10 min or NIH3T3 vSrc cells were grown in multi cell plates or chamber slides and cells were fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde for 15 min. Cells were washed 3 times in PBS permeabilized with 0.2 Triton X for 5 min and further washed 3 4 times with PBS. Specimens were then blocked in 5 goat serum for 60 min and incubated with Stat3 Cell Signaling Technology or Hook2 Santa Cruz Santa Cruz Calif. antibody at 1 50 dilution at 4 C. overnight. Subsequently cells were rinsed 4 5 times in PBS incubated with Alexa fluor 488 rabbit antibody Molecular probe Eugene Oreg. for Stat3 detection or NL637 goat antibody R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. for Hook2 for 1 2 h at room temperature in the dark. Specimens were then washed 5 times with PBS covered with cover slides with VECTASHIELD mounting medium containing DAPI and examined immediately under Leica TCS SP5 confocal microscope Germany at appropriate wavelengths depending on GFP or YFP. Images were captured and processed using the Leica TCS SP 5 software.

Colony formation assays were carried out in six well dishes and colonies were enumerated as previously described 19 . Treatment with S3I M2001 was initiated 1 day after seeding cells in soft agar suspension by adding 75 100 mL of medium with or without compound and repeated every three days until large colonies were evident.

Normal NIH3T3 and NIH3T3 v Src mouse fibroblasts growing in culture were treated with or without 10 100 mM S3I M2001 for 48 h. Cells were then visualized under light microscope and photographed with a digital camera.

Proliferating cells in 96 well plates were treated with 50 300 mM S3I M2001 for 48 h for WST 1 assay according to manufacturer s Roche instructions or cells growing in culture and treated with or without S3I M2001 for 48 h were harvested for analysis by terminal nucleotidyl transferase mediated dUTP nick end labeling TUNEL staining according to supplier s Roche instructions to detect apoptotic cells. In some cases cells were first transfected with the plasmid for the Stat3 SH2 ST3 SH2 domain or mock transfected pcDNA3 empty vector for 24 h or untransfected prior to treatment with S3I M2001 for an additional 24 48 h. Cells were then detached and analyzed by Annexin V binding BD Biosciences San Diego according to the manufacturer s protocol and Flow Cytometry to quantify the percent apoptosis.

Cell migration experiments were carried out using Bio Coat migration chambers Becton Dickinson Franklin N.J. of 24 well companion plates with cell culture inserts containing 8 mm pore size filters according to the manufacturer s protocol. Briefly tumor cells 5 104 500 ml were added to each insert upper chamber with or without S3I M2001 and medium with serum 10 FBS as the chemoattractant was placed in each well of a 24 well companion plate lower chamber . After 24 h incubation 37 C. 5 CO2 the filters were removed and the upper surface was wiped with a cotton tipped applicator to remove non migratory cells. Cells that had migrated through the filter pores and attached to bottom surface of the filter were fixed and stained. The membranes were mounted on glass slides and cells from 10 random microscopic fields 400 magnification were counted. Cell invasion experiments were performed using same Bio Coat invasion chambers Becton Dickenson as already described except that here filters 8 mm were used coated with the basement membrane matrigel. Percent inhibition is calculated as 100 y where y equals residual number of stained cells in the treated total number in the control 100.

Six week old female athymic nude mice were purchased from Harlan and maintained in the institutional animal facilities approved by the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care. Athymic nude mice were injected subcutaneously in the left flank area with 5 106 human breast cancer MDA MB 231 cells in 100 mL of PBS. After 5 to 10 days tumors of a diameter of 3 mm were established. Animals were grouped so that the mean tumor sizes in all groups were nearly identical given S3I M2001 i.v. at 5 10 and 20 mg kg every 2 or every 3 days for 26 days and monitored every 2 or 3 days and tumor sizes were measured with calipers. Tumor volume was calculated according to the formula V 0.52 a2 b where a smallest superficial diameter b largest superficial diameter.

Close structural analysis of the lowest genetic optimization for ligand docking GOLD 15 conformation of ISS 610 yellow IC50 42 M for inhibition of Stat3 Stat3 10 bound within the Stat3 SH2 domain per the X ray crystal structure of Stat3b 14 indicated key structural requirements for hydrophobic hydrogen bonding and electrostatic interactions critical for tight binding. Appropriate candidate binders are suitably substituted heterocyclic systems that reproduce the critical ISS 610 Stat3 interactions. Hence S3I M2001 which contained a central oxazole core with two hydrophobic substituents to complement the relatively hydrophobic protein surface and a pTyr group to bind to the phosphate recognition residues of the third pocket and which superimposes well with the parent ISS 610 docked into the same SH2 cavity . Docking studies of S3I M2001 identified significant complementary interactions between the protein surface and the molecule. The pTyr moiety is bound tightly within a hydrophilic cleft composed of Arg609 Ser613 and Ser611. This important contact may predetermine the subsequent orientations of the two lipophilic groups within the hydrophobic regions of the SH2 domain. The naphthyl appendage makes significant contact with the Ile634 side chain and the lipophilic hexyl substituent is partially encased within a hydrophobic channel composed primarily of Phe716 and Trp623. Positive cooperativity may exist between these subunits to provide a highly potent binding agent for the SH2 active site.

Per DNA binding assay EMSA analysis see Methods for details . S3I M2001 favorably disrupts Stat3 activity in vitro in nuclear extracts containing activated Stat3 left panel or in lysates from Sf 9 cells containing activated Stat3 and preferentially inhibits Stat3 activity over Stat1 by 2 fold IC50 values mM Stat3 Stat3 79 09 Stat1 Stat3 92 11 and Stat1 Stat1 159 06 middle and right panels . Similarly per DNA binding assay EMSA analysis . SDS PAGE Western blot and immunocytostaining analyses S3I M2001 inhibited constitutive Stat3 Tyr phosphorylation and activation in the NIH3T3 v Src and the human breast cancer MDA MB 231 and MDA MB 435 cell lines that harbor constitutively active Stat3 16 18 lanes 1 13 and C lanes 1 6 and preferentially inhibited the epidermal growth factor rhEGF induced Stat3 activation over that of Stat1 in the mouse fibroblasts overexpressing the human EGF receptor NIH3T3 hEGFR right panel . Supershift analysis with anti Stat3 antibody shows protein DNA probe complex contains Stat3 left panel lane 8 . By contrast the pJak1 pSrc and pErk1 2 MAPKs in NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts are not repressed by S3I M2001 lanes 7 12 indicating minimal effect on non Stat3 related proteins. Furthermore transient transfection and luciferase reporter studies showed S3I M2001 inhibited v Src induced Stat3 dependent pLucTKS3 luciferase reporter but not the v Src induced Stat3 independent pLucSRE luciferase reporter 17 19 in a similar manner to the effect of the transient co expression of the dominant negative Stat3b 17 19 .

To confirm the disruption of Stat3 Stat3 dimerization the previously reported dissociation reassociation analysis 9 10 20 was performed using pooled cell lysates of independently prepared lysates of activated Stat1 and Stat3 details are provided in Supplementary Material RESULTS . Stat1 or Stat3 DNA binding activity was evident in their respective cell lysates lanes 1 and 2 and present together in the pooled lysates lane 3 . Pooled lysate treated with S3I M2001 showed a concentration dependent diminution of Stat3 Stat3 DNA binding activity lanes 3 6 ahead of a diminishing Stat1 Stat1 homodimer activity lanes 5 7 and the appearance of an intermediate band corresponding to Stat1 Stat3 heterodimer activity which was hitherto not present lanes 5 and 6 . The formation of the Stat1 Stat3 band is due to the re association between transient monomers of active Stat3 and Stat1 9 10 . The disappearance of the activities for Stat3 Stat3 lanes 5 7 and Stat1 Stat3 lane 7 is due to dimer disruption as previously observed for ISS 610 9 10 and suggests a preferential disruption of Stat3 Stat3 over Stat1 Stat1 homodimer middle and right panels . By contrast in vitro ELISA study of the pTyr SH2 domain interaction between the unrelated Lck SH2 GST and its cognate phosphopeptide biotinyl e Ac EPQpYEEIEL OH 22 4th bar showed minimal effect of S3I M2001 at 30 or 100 mM compare bars 5 and 6 to bar 4 . Thus S3I M2001 selectively disrupts Stat3 Stat3 dimers thereby inhibiting Stat3 DNA binding and transcriptional activities while not affecting the Lck SH2 domain function. On whether disruption of Stat3 dimerization inhibits nuclear translocation immunofluorescence imaging confocal microscopy for the nuclear localization of Stat3 in EGF stimulated NIH3T3 hEGFR mouse fibroblasts revealed a strong EGF induced nuclear staining of Stat3 in the absence of S3I M2001 3rd panel from left which was significantly attenuated upon treatment of cells with S3I M2001 4th panel from left suggesting inhibition of Stat3 activation blocks its nuclear localization.

Malignant cell requirement for persistently active Stat3 for the maintenance of the malignant phenotype is well established 17 19 32 33 . How tumor cells regulate Stat3 to meet this requirement however is not defined. Moreover while the inhibition of aberrant Stat3 activity results in malignant cells demise 9 13 the molecular details of Stat3 cellular processing and the fate of the protein within the context of such an inhibition have not been explored. Given S3I M2001 s specific anti Stat3 properties it was used to probe the intracellular processing and localization dynamics of aberrant Stat3. Fluorescent microscopy Nikon Eclipse TE200 and laser scanning confocal microscopy of the NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts stably transfected with the yellow fluorescent protein YFP tagged Stat3 Stat3 YFP plasmid 23 NIH3T3 v Src Stat3 YFP showed a stronger nuclear Stat3 YFP signal consistent with constitutive Stat3 activation B and D right panel and E . Treatment with S3I M2001 induced a time dependent decrease in the Stat3 YFP fluorescence there is no change in signal at 1 h treatment or less while an increasing degree of Stat3 fluorescence loss becomes evident from 2 5 h 100 300 mM S3I M2001 treatment time t 0 to t 6 h left panels arrows denote Stat3 YFP signal second column from left compared to first time t 0 to t 2 h right panel time t 0 to t 5 h . Phase contrast microscopy showed cellular integrity was maintained time t 0 to t 6 h right panels arrows identify cells remaining or originally positive for fluorescent signal . Protein degradation can result in fluorescence signal loss 29 . Accordingly the presence of MG132 proteasome inhibitor prevented the fluorescence loss third column from left while MG132 alone has no appreciable effect fourth column from left suggesting the Stat3 fluorescence decay may involve the ubiquitin proteasome degradation pathway. In contrast similar studies with the v Src transformed fibroblasts stably expressing the non Stat3 related Green Fluorescent Protein GFP NIH3T3v Src GFP showed no evidence of GFP signal change by S3I M2001 or the proteasome inhibitor MG132 and left panel thus excluding the possibility of non specific fluorescence quenching or photobleaching. Moreover immunoblotting of whole cell lysates from NIH3T3 v Src Stat3 YFP fibroblasts showed reduced Stat3 YFP expression in S3I M2001 treated cells in 3 and 5 h which was similarly partially restored when cells were co treated with MG132 lanes 3 and 4 vs. lanes 5 and 6 . That only a partial corresponding decrease in total Stat3 protein occurred middle panel lanes 3 and 4 suggests a weak proteasome activity against total Stat3 protein. However immunoblotting for ubiquitin of Stat3 immunoprecipitates i.p. from NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts showed a strong and time dependent increase in the level of Stat3 ubiquitination following the S3I M2001 treatment which occurred in parallel with partial and strong Stat3 protein reductions at 5 and 24 h respectively . These findings together raise the possibility there is an impairment of proteasome function 24 25 at the early hours 

Protein misfolding can lead to ubiquitin proteasome degradation and aggregation into aggresomes 26 29 . Aggresomes can lead to fluorescence signal loss 29 and impairment of proteasome function 24 25 . Using laser scanning confocal microscopy we observed that the specific loss of Stat3 YFP signal in the NIH3T3 v Src Stat3 YFP that follows S3I M2001 treatment right column and E right column time t 0 to t 5 h is accompanied by aggregated bodies possibly aggresomes of Stat3 YFP within 5 h of S3I M2001 treatment right bottom panel red arrow denotes bodies . By contrast Cisplatin treatment produced no such effect middle column . Confirming these data immunofluorescence imaging confocal microscopy of Stat3 in NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts revealed that in contrast to the strong nuclear fluorescence of activated Stat3 protein that occurred in dot like structures resembling nuclear bodies 23 and the low cytoplasmic signal in the untreated cells control a strongly reduced Stat3 fluorescence signal occurred that coincided with the appearance of perinuclear aggregated bodies possibly aggresomes in the S3I M2001 treated cells within 3 h and later with a stronger aggresome formation at 24 h treatment . S3I M2001 time t 0.5 to t 24 h . Thus. S3I M2001 promotes the disruption of activated Stat3 from dot like nuclear bodies 23 into perinuclear aggresomes which may explain the apparent low proteasome mediated degradation in the early period of S3I M2001 treatment. The Stat3 aggresome formation and signal loss are events specific to S3I M2001 because they are not induced by Cisplatin Cisplatin and occur in the early hours 

Together our studies herein disclosed are the first on the localization dynamics and the molecular mechanisms for terminating Stat3 function in response to a small molecule inhibitor. Two possible mechanisms may account for the loss of aberrant Stat3 function one involves protein ubiquitination and an early aggregation into perinuclear aggresomes 28 and a late phase proteasome mediated degradation event potentially a quality control mechanism for Stat3 34 given its apparent unnatural state promoted by S3I M2001. The effects of early aggresome formation may be reversible while the late phase events are irreversible and lead to a long term loss of Stat3 function with biological consequences. The perinuclear aggresome formation also suggests a nuclear to perinuclear exit of disrupted activated Stat3 by as yet undetermined mechanisms.

Consistent with Stat3 s importance in maintaining the malignant phenotype 17 WST 1 assay and trypan blue exclusion cell counting revealed S3I M2001 induced growth inhibition and a greater than 2 fold selective loss of viability of the human breast MDA MB 435 and MDA MB 231 and Pancreatic Panc 1 cancer cells and the NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts which all harbor constitutively active Stat3 with EC50 values in the range of 50 100 mM compared to effects on normal NIH3T3 fibroblasts and the human breast MDA MB 453 and Pancreatic MiaPaca 1 cancer cells that lack aberrant Stat3 EC50 values of 120 300 mM . Furthermore S3I M2001 blocked growth in soft agar of the NIH3T3 v Src and the pancreatic cancer Panc 1 cells and induced morphology changes in NIH3T3 v Src in contrast to no appreciable effects on v Ras transformed fibroblasts NIH3T3 v Ras lacking constitutively active Stat3 . Terminal nucleotidyl transferase mediated nick end labeling TUNEL and Annexin V binding with Flow Cytometric Analyses first and third pairs of bars showed strong apoptosis in the NIH3T3 v Src 3T3 v Src and MDA MB 231 and MDA MB 435 cells harboring aberrant Stat3 and treated with S3I M2001 compared to minimal effect on normal NIH3T3 human breast epithelial MCF 10A breast cancer MDA MB 453 and HUVEC HAEC and HL 60 cells that do not contain aberrant Stat3. Validating that the S3I M2001 induced apoptosis is due to interaction with its molecular target Stat3 SH2 domain NIH3T3 v Src fibroblasts 3T3 v Src transiently transfected with a plasmid encoding the Stat3 SH2 domain 3T3 v Src ST3 SH2 and treated with S3I M2001 showed diminished apoptosis compare middle two bars compared to mock transfected 3T3 v Src pcDNA3 left two bars or untransfected cells right two bars . Moreover Western blot analysis showed diminished Bcl xL expression a known Stat3 regulated and anti apoptotic gene 30 in the S3I M2001 treated NIH3T3 v Src and MDA MB 435 cells suggesting repressed Bcl xL expression is part of the underlying mechanism for the S3I M2001 induced apoptosis.

Given Stat3 s importance in tumor growth and tumor progression 31 matrigel assay using Bio Coat migration chambers showed significant S3I M2001 induced inhibition of the migration of NIH3T3 v Src 76 . MDA MB 231 37 and Panc 1 21 and the invasion of NIH3T3 v Src 28 MDA MB 231 48 and Panc 1 38 cells harboring constitutively active percent inhibition in parenthesis defined in Methods section . Furthermore in xenograft models of human breast MDA MB 231 cells that harbors aberrant Stat3 tumor bearing mice the i.v. injection of S3I M2001 at 5 10 and 20 mg kg 1 but not vehicle control every 2 or 3 days for 26 days strongly inhibited growth of tumors . Animals remained viable at the highest 20 mg kg 1 dose applied. DNA binding assay with EMSA analysis and SDS AGE Western blotting of lysates from residual tumor tissues extracted from representative control and treated mice showed abrogated Stat3 activity and pTyr levels in S3I M2001 treated tumors T1 and T2 . These findings together demonstrate S3I M2001 induces antitumor cell effects and tumor regression in part by targeting the Stat3 SH2 domain and inhibiting Stat3 mediated tumor processes 3 6 7 17 32 38 39 . Moreover S3I M2001 compares favorably with other Stat3 SH2 domain targeting small molecule inhibitors including S3I 201 which was obtained by computational modeling and virtual chemical library screening 13 and represents a significant improvement over its peptidomimetic predecessors 10 .

The present disclosure provides the first study of the cellular processing and stability of aberrant Stat3 in malignant cells within the context of inhibition by a chemical probe that has implications for the many human tumor cells including the human breast and pancreatic cancer cells that harbor aberrant Stat3. The general applicability of the current study to other previously identified Stat3 inhibitors including the g quartet oligonucleotides 35 peptide aptamers 36 platinum IV complexes 11 12 and STA 21 NSC 628869 37 however is unclear as those other agents have different modes of inhibition of Stat3 from S3I M2001. Altogether our studies establish the proof of concept for the antitumor effects of S3I M2001 that correlates with disruption of constitutively active Stat3 Stat3 dimers while using S3I M2001 as a chemical probe to investigate the molecule dynamics of termination of Stat3 function following inhibition. Accordingly the novel compound S3I M2001 herein disclosed may also be referred to as an anti cancer agent a cytotoxic agent and or a chemotherapeutic agent.

Accordingly in the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms may have been employed the terms are used in a descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. The invention has been described in considerable detail with specific reference to these illustrated embodiments. It will be apparent however that various modifications and changes can be made within the spirit and scope of the invention as described in the foregoing specification and as defined in the appended claims.

