---

title: Bundling of communication signals for efficiency
abstract: Systems and methods for bundling signals in a wireless communication system are disclosed. A connection request and a reservation for QoS resources can be bundled into an access message at an access terminal. The access message with the bundled communication signals can then be transmitted to an access network. An application layer (e.g., a DataOverSignaling (DOS)) message can also be bundled with the connection request and the reservation into the access message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08265679&OS=08265679&RS=08265679
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08265679
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070928
---
The present application claims priority to PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2007 079855 filed Sep. 28 2007 which claims priority to provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 827 428 entitled SIMULTANEOUS RESOURCE ACTIVATION TO REDUCE SESSION SETUP LATENCY filed Sep. 28 2006 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates to communications in a wireless telecommunication system and more particularly to bundling communication signals that are originated by an access terminal.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

The group communication or PTT call is generally initiated from an originating access terminal that sends the initial request for the group communication. Conventional systems require multiple communications from the originator to establish communication links to the wireless network group communication infrastructure to enable the establishment of the group call. These multiple communications can lead to additional delay in establishing the group call and therefore a degradation in the overall user experience.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for bundling communication signals that are originated by an access terminal in a wireless communication system.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a method for transmitting communication signals in a wireless network comprising bundling a connection request and a reservation for QoS resources into an access message at an access terminal and transmitting the access message to an access network.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal comprising logic configured to bundle a connection request and a reservation for QoS resources into an access message and logic configured to transmit the access message to an access network.

Another embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable medium including code stored thereon for bundling communication messages in a wireless network comprising code for causing a computer to bundle a connection request and a reservation for QoS resources into an access message and code for causing a computer to transmit the access message to an access network.

Another embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus comprising means for bundling a connection request and a reservation for QoS resources into an access message and means for transmitting the access message to an access network.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station e.g. a 1xEV DO enabled wireless device referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or mobile switching center MSC . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network AN also referred to herein as a radio access network RAN transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. For example the access terminal can include logic configured to bundle a connection request and a reservation for QoS resources into an access message and logic configured to transmit the access message to an access network. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the access network using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Once the bundled message is received at the access network the access network can process the request . In the access network can allocate a traffic channel TCH and the requested QoS resources for the requested reservations assuming the traffic channel and QoS resources are available. Specifically the access network can acknowledge the access message ACAck transmit a traffic channel assignment TCA and transmit a reservation accept message ReservationAccept . These messages can be transmitted on a control channel CC to AT . A data rate control DRC message can be sent from the AT to establish a data communication rate with the AN . After successfully receiving and decoding the DRC and pilot the AN can transmit a Reverse Traffic Channel Acknowledge RTCAck message on the forward traffic channel F TCH . Upon receipt of the RTCAck message the AT can send a Traffic Channel Complete TCC message on the reverse traffic channel R TCH . Dedicated channels are then established in both the forward and reverse directions and the AT and the AN can both communicate data bidirectionally. The various messages communicated between access terminal and access network are known in the art and are documented in 3GPP2 C.S0024 A Version 3.0 cdma2000 High Rate Packet Data Air Interface dated Sep. 12 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Accordingly a detailed explanation of the setup procedures and messages will not be provided herein.

If the DOS message or other application layer message is optionally bundled in the connection request access message that information does not impact the traffic channel setup discussed in the foregoing. Generally the application specific data can be detected and merely passed on to the appropriate destination by AN . However the application specific information may further reduce latency in delay sensitive applications by providing data needed e.g. a PTT call request for further processing by remote applications e.g. a PTT server to establish the data communication e.g. a PTT call once the traffic channels are setup between AT and AN . Accordingly the data included in the application layer message does not have to wait for the establishment of the traffic channels between the AT and AN before being forwarded to the network.

As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the QoS resources needed may vary for different applications or within applications. The following examples describe QoS design under different QoS resource scenarios 

If some of the In Call Signaling and Media reservations are already allocated to the originator AT at the time of arrival of a call setup packet the AN RAN may only activate the In Call Signaling and Media reservations that are not currently allocated.

As noted above embodiments of the invention can reduce process delays in delay sensitive applications. A group communication Push to Talk PTT system is an example of a delay sensitive system that can take advantage of reduced connection times offered by the communication signal bundling disclosed herein. For example embodiments of the invention provide for an AT to send a request to turn on the reservations for needed QoS resources e.g. In Call Signaling and Media reservations for a PTT call by transmitting a ReservationOnRequest message in the same access capsule as its connection request e.g. ConnectionRequest RouteUpdate message. Optionally a DataoverSignaling DOS message can be bundled in the same access capsule. If the In Call Signaling forward and reverse QoS reservations are allocated at the time of the PTT call the AT can request the Media QoS reservations to be turned on. These requests can be made as part of the ReservationOnRequest message.

The group communication system may also be known as a push to talk PTT system a net broadcast service NBS a dispatch system or a point to multi point communication system. Typically a group of access terminal users can communicate with one another using an access terminal assigned to each group member. The term group member denotes a group of access terminal users authorized to communicate with each other. Although group communication systems PTT systems may be considered to be among several members the system is not limited to this configuration and can apply to communication between individual devices on a one to one basis.

The group may operate over an existing communication system without requiring substantial changes to the existing infrastructure. Thus a controller and users may operate in any system capable of transmitting and receiving packet information using Internet protocol IP such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA system a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM system satellite communication systems combinations of land line and wireless systems and the like.

Group members may communicate with each other using an assigned access terminal such as access terminals ATs and . The ATs may be wireline or wireless devices such as terrestrial wireless telephones wireline telephones having push to talk capability satellite telephones equipped with push to talk functionality laptop or desktop computers paging devices or any combination thereof. Furthermore each At may be able to send and receive information in either a secure mode or a non secure clear mode. It should be understood that reference to an AT is not intended to be limited to the illustrated or enumerated examples and may encompass other devices that have the capability to transmit and receive packet information in accordance with the Internet Protocol IP .

When a group member wishes to transmit information to other members of the group the member may request the transmission privilege by pressing a push to talk button or key e.g. in on an AT which generates a request formatted for transmission over a distributed network. For example the request may be transmitted over the air to one from AT or more MPTs or base stations . A BSC PCF which may include a well known inter working function IWF packet data serving node PDSN or packet control function PCF for processing data packets may exist between MPT BS and the distributed network. However the requests may also be transmitted through the public switched telephone network PSTN to a carrier network . The carrier network may receive the request and provide it to the RAN .

Referring to one or more group communication servers can monitor traffic of the group communication system through its connection to distributed network. Since the group communication server can be connected to the distributed network through a variety of wired and wireless interfaces geographic proximity to group participants is not necessary. Typically a group communication server controls communications between the wireless devices of set group members ATs in a PTT system. The wireless network illustrated is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. Further a series of group communication servers can be connected to a group communication server LAN .

The group communication server s can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF may be located in the base station . The carrier network controls messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a MSC . The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and PSTN for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless ATs such as cellular telephones as is well known in the art. Accordingly the general details of a group communication system will not be further discussed. Further although the description herein discusses specific aspects of specific systems e.g. PTT QChat 1xEV DO to provide additional details and examples embodiments of the invention are not limited to these specific illustrations.

As discussed above the AT requests a traffic channel in order to establish a communication e.g. a PTT call . The PTT call can be originated by the originator AT if both traffic channel and QoS resources for In Call Signaling and Media are available additional details regarding the QoS resources are provided below and in . In the conventional systems the AT would have to establish the traffic channel connection with the AN and then request the QoS resources. However to reduce this delay in accordance with embodiments of the invention the signaling messages need to establish the PTT call are bundled in the initial access channel message along with the original connection request.

1xEV DO Revision A is designed to provide efficient access to packet data networks and is widely based on the Internet for its network architecture. Data traffic traversing Internet Protocol IP network elements at the PDSN PCF and RAN can be based on standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on QoS requirements. QoS between the AT and the 1xEV DO Revision A network is configured as described in the 3GPP2 X.S0011 004 C Version 2.0 cdma2000 Wireless IP Network Standard Quality of Service and Header Reduction specification the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Data traffic transmitted over the air interface between the AT and the RAN can be configured for appropriate QoS treatment via 1xEV DO Revision A protocols as described in the 3GPP2 C.S0024 A Version 3.0 document referenced above. 1xEV DO Revision A provides standard mechanisms to offer intra AT and inter AT QoS. Intra AT QoS provides differentiation of data streams belonging to the same user while inter AT QoS provides differentiation of packets belonging to different users.

To achieve QoS traffic differentiation should be available end to end. All network components including the AT RAN BTS BSC PDSN and Internet routers should implement support QoS. End to end QoS in 1xEV DO Revision A networks can be achieved through the following mechanisms 

QoS in a 1xEV DO Revision A network is also based on the proper mapping or binding of the following elements for the AT s PPP session such as follows 

Although the foregoing description provides many details specific to a PTT QChat system and the 1 EV DO network to provide a detailed illustration of various aspects of embodiments of the invention those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific application and or network. Embodiments of the invention can include any application that has QoS requirements. Further any network that can support the allocation of QoS resources bundled with the initial connection setup request can also be included in embodiments of the invention.

Referring to a flowchart illustrating the bundling process according to embodiments of the invention is provided. For example the method can include an application identifying a communication to be requested requires QoS resources e.g. a PTT call in block . Additional messages can be considered for bundling e.g. DOS message if the additional message is used and there is room in the access probe. A request for a bundled access message e.g. access probe can then be communicated from the application layer in block to lower layers for bundling of the requested messages in the access probe. As used herein the application layer can include the requesting application e.g. a PTT client and a bundling API that facilitates interface between the application layer and the lower layers e.g. RLC MAC and Physical Layers . However it will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention are not limited to this configuration. For example the application itself could contain the functionality of the bundling API.

In block after the receipt of the bundled request the QoS request can be added to the access probe. Likewise in block the DOS message can be added to the access probe if requested and there is sufficient space in the access probe. Additionally in block the connection request and route update messages are added to the access probe. A check can be performed to determine whether the bundled message is complete in block . If not the process can loop back to check for the missing messages as they may be delayed. A delay element e.g. timer can also be set at the application layer in block to allow for the bundling of the access probe. The process can loop via block until the application layer receives an indication from the lower layers that the message bundling is complete or until the event is timed out and the access probe is sent . After receiving the confirmation the access probe delay can be released and the access probe can be transmitted .

As discussed in the foregoing the trigger e.g. can be any event that causes an application to initiate a connection request with QoS requirements which are known to the application. The trigger may be activated manually via hard key or soft key activation may be activated in response to a received signal e.g. voice command signal from the network etc. or may be activated in response to condition detected by the application.

For example as illustrated in an access terminal AT may receive a trigger such as an announce message or call setup message in a PTT system. Specifically a call setup message can be transmitted via PDSN and AN . Access network can forward the call setup message over a control channel to the target AT . Upon receipt and decoding of the call setup packet AT can determine that the requested communication e.g. a PTT call uses QoS resources. Accordingly the call setup message received from the network can serve as a trigger to initiate the bundling of the subsequent response.

For example AT can respond with a bundled request including a connection request e.g. ConnectionRequest RouteUpdate a QoS reservation e.g. ReservationOnRequest and optionally an application layer message e.g. DOS on an access channel. Including the DOS allows for application data to be sent to a destination prior to establishing a traffic channel. Requesting the QoS resources allows for the allocation of the need QoS resources prior to establishing the traffic channel. Accordingly the responsiveness of the communication system may be improved. Upon receipt of the connection request a traffic channel and requested resources can be allocated at access network AN . The traffic channel assignment TCA QoS resources acceptance and acknowledgement of the access channel message can be transmitted to AT . The traffic channel setup can continue in and until both the AN and AT are prepared to send and receive data as discussed in the foregoing and known in the art. Accordingly a detailed explanation will not be provided.

In view of the foregoing disclosure those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments of the invention include methods of performing the sequence of actions operations and or functions previously discussed. For example a method for transmitting communication signals in a wireless network can include bundling a connection request and a reservation for QoS resources into an access message at an access terminal and transmitting the access message to an access network. The bundled message can further include an application layer message e.g. DOS message that is bundled with the connection request and the reservation into the access message.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an apparatus including logic configured to bundle a connection request and a reservation for QoS resources into an access message and logic configured to transmit the access message to an access network. The apparatus can further include logic configured to bundle an application layer message with the connection request and the reservation into the access message. The various logical elements can be integrated into one device or can be distributed over several devices each operably couple to one another. For example the apparatus can be an access terminal or similar wireless computing device.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a computer readable medium including code stored thereon for bundling communication messages in a wireless network comprising code for causing a computer to bundle a connection request and a reservation for QoS resources into an access message and code for causing a computer to transmit the access message to an access network. Further any of the functions describe herein can be included in as additional code in further embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

