---

title: Drill down functionality in a dashboard application
abstract: A dashboard application can enable a user to quickly view data (and, in a particular aspect, data from one or more business applications) in an efficient manner. The dashboard application can be used to view data about one or more metrics that reflect the performance of a business, as derived from data maintained (perhaps in an associated data store) by the business application(s). The dashboard application can provide the ability to select a level of granularity at which data should be displayed and/or filtered for display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396474&OS=09396474&RS=09396474
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09396474
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070509
---
This application is a nonprovisional application claiming under 35 U.S.C. 119 e the benefit of the filing date of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 60 882 538 filed Dec. 28 2006 by Gu et al. and entitled Dashboard Application the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 746 154 filed on May 9 2007 by Gu et al. and entitled Multi Dimensioned Data Hierarchies the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 746 178 filed May 9 2007 by Gu et al. and entitled Configurable Metric Groups the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 746 127 filed on May 9 2007 by Gu et al. and entitled Configurable Actions in a Dashboard Application the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 746 216 filed on May 9 2007 by Gu et al. and entitled Configurable Goals in a Dashboard Application the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The entire disclosure of each of the above applications patents is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to providing information to computer users and in particular to accessing data from business applications and providing that data in an organized manner.

Most large businesses and many smaller businesses and organizations employ one or more business applications and in some cases suites of business applications to provide visibility and control over various aspects of the business. Such business applications or as they are sometimes called enterprise applications can include without limitation customer relations management CRM applications enterprise resource planning ERP applications supply chain management applications and other applications dealing with various finance accounting manufacturing and or distribution functions to name but a few examples. Exemplary enterprise application suites include without limitation the Oracle eBusiness Suite and JD Edwards Enterprise One both of which are available from Oracle Corp.

To maximize the utility of a business application users need to have visibility into the business processes managed by the business application to monitor the health e.g. the efficiency operational status of various business processes and of the enterprise itself. Business applications however typically are more focused on managing the business processes for example acquiring generating and processing business data than on providing immediate visibility into the health of those business processes.

Consequently many enterprise users either purchase third party business intelligence tools to integrate with the business application and or suite or develop their own business intelligence solution. The cost of business intelligence software is expensive sometimes prohibitively so however and the complexity of such tools often requires intimate knowledge of extract transform load ETL technology and system integration simply to integrate an off the shelf business intelligence tool. Similarly it can be prohibitively expensive and or time consuming to develop a business intelligence solution in house given the complexity of modern business applications and the lack of a preexisting framework within such applications to develop add or modify such a solution.

Accordingly there is a need for a more practical tool to provide visibility into business processes. In some cases it would be helpful if such a tool were to provide real time or near real time visibility into the business processes. In other cases it would be beneficial for such a tool to be relatively configurable by an end user and or support staff to mitigate the expense both fiscally and chronologically of developing solutions that fit the needs of the end user.

In a set of embodiments the present invention provides a dashboard application which can enable a user to quickly view data and in a particular aspect data from one or more business applications in an efficient manner. In a set of embodiments the dashboard application can be used to view data about one or more metrics that reflect the performance of business operations s as derived from data maintained perhaps in an associated data store by the business application s .

In an aspect of some embodiments the user is given the ability to customize both what data i.e. which metrics is displayed and or the way in which the data is displayed. Merely by way of example in an embodiment the dashboard application might comprise a summary screen and one or more detail screens. The summary screen might display summary information about a plurality of metrics while the detail screen s might display more detailed information about one or more particular metrics. The user can be given the option to customize the summary screen both in terms of which metrics are displayed and or how they are displayed and or the detail screen s . In a particular set of embodiments for example the user can be given tools both to filter the data displayed e.g. by drilling down into the data using a display hierarchy and or to categorize the data e.g. by selecting one or more view criteria for categorizing the data . In a novel aspect the user might be given the ability to define the display hierarchy and or the view criteria to meet that user s particular needs.

The tools provided by various embodiments invention include without limitation methods systems and or software products. Mainly by way of example a method might comprise one or more procedures any or all of which are executed by a computer system. Correspondingly an embodiment might comprise a computer system configured with instructions to perform one or more procedures in accordance with methods of the invention. Similarly a computer program might comprise a set of instructions that are executable by a computer system and or a processor therein to perform such operations. In many cases such software programs are encoded on physical and or tangible computer readable media such as merely by way of example optical media magnetic media and or the like . In a particular embodiment the set of instructions might be incorporated within a business application.

Merely by way of example a method in accordance with one set of embodiments might comprise accessing a set of data which might be produced by one or more business applications. In some cases the data is stored in a data store which might be maintained by the business application . In some embodiments the method comprises displaying a display hierarchy in a first visible component which might be a window a web page an HTML frame and or the like. The display hierarchy can be used to organize a display of the set of data and or might comprise a plurality of levels. In an aspect each level corresponds to a parameter by which the data can be categorized. Hence in some cases the display hierarchy can provide a drill down path by which at least a portion of the set of data can be viewed at varying levels of granularity.

In one embodiment the method further comprises providing an input mechanism such as merely by way of example a text input field picklist combo box and or the like to allow the user to select a level in the hierarchy. The set of data can be filtered according to the selected level in the hierarchy and or the method might include displaying e.g. in a second visible component such as a window web page HTML frame and or the like the filtered data according to the selected level in the hierarchy.

An exemplary computer system in accordance with another set of embodiments might comprise a processor a communication interface and or a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium might comprise i.e. have stored thereon a set of instructions executable by the processor. The set of instructions might include instructions to perform various procedures of methods of the invention. In some cases the computer system might comprise a server computer e.g. a web server which might be in communication with a client computer which might include a web browser and or a dedicated client application etc. to display information for a user and or receive input from the user.

Embodiments of the invention provide a dashboard application which interacts both with one or more business applications and or the data produced by those applications and with a user. Hence the dashboard application provides an easy to use facility for a user to view data about various business metrics without having to actually interact with the business applications themselves. One skilled in the art will appreciate that there are a variety of business applications in use including without limitation customer relations management applications enterprise resource planning applications warehouse management systems supply chain management applications human resources applications business analytics applications sales applications and the like. Several vendors provide comprehensive packages of business applications. Examples include the E Business Suite the Fusion suite JD Edwards EnterpriseOne and PeopleSoft Enterprise all available from Oracle Corp. as well as packages from other vendors such as the mySAP Buesingess Suite available from SAP AG . The dashboard application then provides an interface between the data produced by such business application and or the applications themselves and a user.

Merely by way of example a Plant Manager Dashboard application might provide an interface for a plant manager to view a set of metrics associated with the performance of one or more manufacturing plants. In many cases a metric will be derived from data produced by one or more business applications while in other cases a metric might simply comprise such data. It should be appreciated that data produced by a business application will normally take the form of a number of records e.g. database records . Each of those records will comprise a plurality of data elements having a value and each of the data elements will have an associated dimension. In some cases these records and or data elements might provide a metric themselves. In other cases the metric might be derived from a collection of a plurality of records and or the data elements therein .

Hence used herein the term metric means any value that is used to measure the performance of a particular business process. Examples include the number of orders fulfilled number of products produced accounts receivable aging and or the like. In many cases a metric will have two or more dimensions and in some cases a metric will have a large number of dimensions. In a sense dimensions provide various perspectives from which a metric can be viewed. Merely by way of example a metric measuring the number of products produced might have a time dimension e.g. the number of products produced over a particular week month quarter year etc. as well as a plant dimension e.g. the number of products produced in Plant A number of products produced in Plant B etc. . In a set of embodiments the dashboard application provides a way for users to explore metrics in the dimensions that are of the greatest interest.

In an aspect the dashboard application of the present invention provides flexibility in viewing metrics and or information about those metrics by implementing a display hierarchy. The display hierarchy can be used to drill down into a metric and or the data from which the metric is derived by filtering the data according to one or more dimensions. The hierarchy can also be used to categorize the data according to one or more view criteria which might also be dimensions . It should be noted that a display hierarchy can be multi dimensional. Merely by way of example a particular hierarchy for a metric measuring items produced might have at its topmost level a time dimension e.g. years . The second level in the hierarchy might be a plant location dimension while the third level might be a product family dimension.

Together a set of filter criteria and view criteria can be considered a variant. A variant can be thought of as a particular way to view and or drill down into a metric. In some embodiments a number of default variants might be provided for viewing data. In other embodiments the user might be provided with a facility to create user defined metrics. In yet other embodiments a combination of default variants and user defined variants might be employed.

The data interface might comprise an application programming interface for communicating with the data store and or business applications . Alternately and or additionally the data interface might include a database access component a web service broker and or the like. Many inter application and or database communication facilities are known in the art and any of such facilities can be employed by the data interface .

The dashboard application also includes a client interface for providing communication between the dashboard application and a client computer and or a user thereof . In particular embodiments the client computer might comprise an application for communicating with the dashboard application e.g. via the client interface . In a particular set of embodiments the client interface might comprise a web server which might be part of the dashboard application and or separate from the dashboard application . The application then might be a web browser which can communicate with the client interface via standard web communications protocols e.g. HTTP etc. and the displays user interfaces and or input mechanisms produced by the dashboard application might be presented to the user as web pages web based forms Java applications and or applets portlets and or the like. In other embodiments however such displays might comprises windows in a dedicated application etc.

It should be noted that the functional arrangement depicted by is exemplary in nature and that many variations are possible. Merely by way of example in some cases the dashboard application might be incorporated within one or more of the business applications . Similarly the client interface as mentioned above might be a standalone program separate from the dashboard application and in fact might reside on a different computer . In one embodiment the dashboard application resides on a server computer such as one of those described below for example . In another embodiment the dashboard application and or a portion thereof might reside on the client computer such that the user does not have to contact a separate server to use the dashboard application. It should be appreciated based on the disclosure herein that the various functional arrangements between the dashboard application business applications data store and client computer are virtually unlimited and embodiments of the invention are not limited to any particular structural implementation.

As noted above in a set of embodiments the dashboard application might provide a summary screen and or one or more detail screens. Merely by way of example illustrates an exemplary summary screen while illustrates an exemplary detail screen . The summary screen comprises a number of visible components including without limitation a metric group selection interface which will be described in more detail below a search interface a plurality of metrics components a component for viewing additional metrics not pictured on the summary screen and an alerts component which will also be described in more detail below. A visible component can be any component of the dashboard application that is visible or can be made visible to a user. Hence the visible components of the dashboard application collectively provide the user interface for the dashboard application. The nature of a visible component necessarily will depend on the implementation of the dashboard application. Merely by way of example if the dashboard application is provided as a web based application a visible component might comprise inter alia a frame on a web page a Java or Javascript window a portlet and or merely a section of a web page. If the dashboard application is a dedicated application on a client computer each visible component might be an application window portion of an application window dialog box etc. Based on the disclosure herein those skilled in the art will appreciate that modern application development environments provide a number of user interface widgets that can be used to create the visible components as well as other user interfaces and input mechanisms described herein.

The search interface can be used to filter a data set according to one or more dimensions e.g as illustrated by company by branch plant by customer supplier by product facility by date and or by text query . Based on the input to the search interface the data displayed in the metric components will be filtered to match the search criteria.

Each metric component displays summary information about a particular metric. Merely by way of example a first metric component displays information about a metric measuring booked order values while a second metric component displays summary information about a metric measuring on time product completions. The metrics displayed are based on data obtained from a data store associated with one or more business applications and or from the business applications themselves. In some cases the dashboard application is configured to generate the appropriate metrics based on raw data obtained from the data store business application while in other cases the dashboard application merely formats and displays metrics data that is stored by the data store itself.

Different metric components might have different display modes. Merely by way of example various metric components might employ a bar chart e.g. component a pie chart e.g. component a stacked bar chart e.g. component and or a data table e.g. component . It should be appreciated that the display mode for a particular metric will often be chosen based on the type of metric and the most efficient way to convey information about that metric. As described below in detail the user can be given the opportunity to specify both the metrics that appear on the summary screen and or the display mode for each of those metrics . In a particular aspect the user can select pre selected groups of metrics to appear on the display screen using the metric group selection interface as described further below.

Each metric component also includes an input mechanism e.g. the mechanism displayed in metric component to allow the user to invoke a detail screen providing a detailed view of that metric and or data pertaining to that metric . While the mechanism illustrated in is a hyperlink one skilled in the art will appreciate based on the disclosure herein that any number of input mechanisms could be used for this purpose e.g. dialog boxes buttons etc. . Merely by way of example which a user provides input via the input mechanism e.g. by selecting the hyperlink the dashboard application will invoke a detail screen such as the detail screen illustrated by .

The detail screen provides more detailed information about the selected metric and it also allows the user to view the metric data and or the data from which the metric is generated more selectively for example by filtering and or categorizing the data by various dimensions. In the example illustrated by the detail screen comprises a first visible component for displaying the metric. It should be noted that similar display modes as those on the summary screen described above may be used to display the metric on the detail screen although other display modes may be used as well. In particular as illustrated by a first display mode e.g. a mode comprising a pie chart might be employed for a particular metric on the summary screen while a second display mode e.g. a mode comprising a bar chart might be used in the visible component displaying the metric on the detail screen . In some embodiments the detail screen might have an input mechanism not shown on for selecting among various display modes for the display of the metric in the visible component .

The exemplary detail screen also comprises an input mechanism for identifying a view criterion. The selection of the view criterion generally will affect how the metric is displayed but not necessarily the data that is displayed. In other words the view criterion affects how the metric is displayed e.g. how the data is categorized but not what is displayed. In this example changing the view criterion will change the X axis of the bar chart to categorize the data according to the view criterion.

The detail screen also includes a visible component that displays a display hierarchy for the data comprising the metric. This display hierarchy allows a user to drill down into the metric data according to one or more dimensions. As used herein the terms drill down and drill up refers to moving between levels within a display hierarchy. Specifically a move from a current level in the display hierarchy to a higher level is referred to as drilling up while a move from a current level to a lower level is referred to as drilling down. Generally drilling down narrows the data presented on the metric e.g. by filtering the data presented and drilling up increases the data included in the presentation e.g. by removing filters .

The display hierarchy component displays the levels of the currently selected display hierarchy and shows the user the current drill down drill up path. It should be noted that the levels in the display hierarchy can be associated with different dimensions as illustrated by the top level in the display hierarchy comprises a parameter with a date dimension while the second level corresponds to a parameter with a company dimension the third level corresponds to a parameter with a branch plant dimension and so on.

In conjunction with the display hierarchy the detail screen also provides another visible component that provides a drill down grid for a currently selected level in the display hierarchy. Generally the drill down grid will display all of the values in the data set for the parameter corresponding to the selected level of the display hierarchy. For example for the company level in the display hierarchy the drill down grid component provides three different companies by which the data can be further filtered. The drill down grid component also provides an input mechanism to allow the user to select one or more of the values as a filter criterion. In the illustrated embodiment for example the drill down grid component provides an input mechanism in the form of a hyperlink in this case that allows the user to select a value for the company parameter. This value then will be used to filter the data that is displayed in other words the value will be used as a filter criterion to drill down further into the data.

In addition the display hierarchy component and or the drill down grid can be used to provide a view criterion by which the data should be categorized for display as illustrated by in which the metric display component has categorized the metric data by company value. Merely by way of example if a user selects a particular level in the display hierarchy but does not provide any filter criterion for that level the dashboard application might be configured to use the parameter associated with that level as the view criterion and the metric display component might be updated accordingly. Alternatively the user might be provided with an input mechanism to produce this result. This can be used as an alternative and or in addition to the view criterion input mechanism described above. 

The display hierarchy component might include a drill down drill up path which indicates how far the user has currently drilled down into the display hierarchy. Optionally the display hierarchy component can also provide an indication of the values that have been used as filter criteria and or view criteria in reaching the current drill down level. Merely by way of example in the illustrated embodiment the user has selected the date 200606 as a filter criteria and that value is indicated on the display hierarchy component. In this way the user can quickly and easily see how the data has been filtered and or categorized in producing the current display of the metric. The drill down drill up path in a novel aspect of some embodiments can also be used to provide an input mechanism to allow a user to arbitrarily choose a level in the display hierarchy without having to first drill up or in some cases down to that level. Merely by way of example if a user has drilled down several levels into the display hierarchy the user can select a level perhaps using the display hierarchy component to drill up to without having to back out of the drill down path level by level. In addition the user might be given the option to change a value for a parameter corresponding to a particular level without having to change any of the filter or view criteria. So for example if the user is viewing orders for a particular product line placed by a particular company during a particular month the user can change the value of the month parameter without having to first drill up i.e. remove the product line and company filters .

In some embodiments the detail screen also includes a visible component that provides a list of the available actions for the metric being viewed. In a set of embodiment this visible component can provide an input mechanism such as a hyperlink button etc. that allows a user to provide input to initiate a particular action. Based on this input the dashboard application might initiate the action.

In a novel aspect of some embodiments the dashboard application can be configured to initiate actions that occur outside the dashboard application itself. For instance in some cases the dashboard application might be configured to invoke a business application that is associated with the data being viewed on the detail screen. Merely by way of example the illustrated detail screen displays the on time shipment promised metric and an action might be provided to invoke a sales order entry business application to view details about a particular order or set of orders . In an aspect the detail screen can be used to provide a context for the action. Merely by way of example if the user has drilled down to a particular month and a particular company the action might invoke the sales order entry application to display only orders placed by that company during the month.

Other actions are possible as well. Merely by way of example the dashboard application might be configured to send an electronic mail message perhaps to a person or group of people responsible for the business process measured by the metric. Once again the detail screen can provide a context for the message if desired. Merely by way of example the message might comprise some of the displayed data which is categorized and or filtered according to the selected levels in the display hierarchy at the time the action is initiated. Alternatively and or additionally the message might comprise reference such as a hyperlink etc. to the dashboard application and or the pertinent business application s and the reference might refer to the relevant dashboard and or business application in a context provided by the detail screen e.g. by invoking the business application in context as described above and or by invoking the dashboard application detail screen with the display hierarchy pre configured . Indeed the context provided by the selected levels in the display hierarchy might even determine to whom the message is sent. Merely by way of example if the display hierarchy currently is drilled down to filter data by a particular company the sales representative for that company might be included as a recipient of the electronic mail message.

The relationships between various metrics and the responsible parties might be maintained by the dashboard application and or might be obtained from the relevant business application s . Merely by way of example a business application might include a table that correlates various plants with the people who are the plant managers for those locations. In other cases the metric data itself might reflect a responsible person e.g. a record for a particular sales order might indicate the name of the sales representative who entered the order or is otherwise responsible for the order . Other data sources such as human resources applications and or databases might be used as well by the dashboard application to identify recipients of the message.

After a display hierarchy has been defined e.g. by a user as a default display hierarchy etc. the dashboard application accesses and or obtains the relevant data block . In many cases this operation is performed by interfacing with a data store and or a business application to obtain the necessary data. The display hierarchy is then displayed block perhaps as a hierarchical list of levels in a display component as described above with respect to for example. In a set of embodiments the display hierarchy comprises a plurality of levels each of which corresponds to a parameter by which the data can be categorized. Hence as described above the display hierarchy provides a drill down path by which at least a portion of the set of data can be viewed at varying levels of granularity e.g. by filtering the data according to the parameters corresponding to the levels of the display hierarchy .

The dashboard application provides an input mechanism to allow a user to select a level in the display hierarchy block . This input mechanism might be provided by making the levels in the display hierarchy selectable e.g. as hyperlinks etc. block . In an aspect of some embodiments as described above the input mechanism can allow the user to arbitrarily select levels for example by selecting any of the plurality of levels in the display hierarchy without having to first select a higher level in the display hierarchy and or by allowing the user to select any level above the first level without having to first select a level immediately higher than the first level.

In an aspect the input mechanism will allow the user to identify the selected level as a filter criterion. Hence in this manner the user can provide a filter criterion for the display of the metric block . Merely by way of example the user can be provided with an input mechanism such as text box etc. to specify a value for the parameter. This value will then be used as the filter criterion. The dashboard application then filters the data according to the filter criterion block such that only records having a data element with the particular for that parameter being included in the display of the metric and or the calculation of the metric for display . The filtered data and or more particularly the metric as calculated based on the filtered data is displayed perhaps in a second visible component block . Hence displaying the data and or the metric might comprise displaying only the filtered data. In some embodiments the filter criterion is also displayed for the user block for example by displaying the value next to the corresponding level in the displayed hierarchy as illustrated on . This process can be repeated as desired for any number of levels in the display hierarchy as indicated by the broken line on .

In some cases an input mechanism may be used to allow the user to identify a view criterion by which the data should be categorized block . After the user provides input to identify the view criterion the data can be categorized according to this criterion block and the metric thus categorized can be displayed block .

Based on input received from the user e.g. via the input mechanisms the dashboard application generates a display hierarchy for displaying the set of data block and displays perhaps in a visible component such as the visible component of a representation of the display hierarchy block . The dashboard application can then provide an input mechanism to allow the user to select a dimension from the display hierarchy for categorizing and or filtering the data block and the data can be displayed according to the selected view and or filter criteria block for example as described with respect to . As noted above multiple levels in the display hierarchy can be selected for filtering and or categorizing the data in this way.

The method further comprises identifying metrics to be displayed on a summary screen. In some cases identifying the metrics comprises identifying a metric group block from among a list of configured metric groups. An input mechanism such as the mechanism illustrated on can be used for this purpose.

In particular embodiments the dashboard application will provide a metric grouping interface to allow a user to configure metric groups. In some cases configuring metric groups comprises creating a metric group and or identifying a group of metrics that should be in a particular metric group block . Merely by way of example illustrates a metric grouping interface that can be used to identify metrics for a particular group. The interface comprises a list of available metrics along with a set of input mechanisms e.g. input mechanism for selecting a particular metric to be part of the group. The interface also includes an input mechanism that allows the user to provide a name for the metric group as well as an input mechanism that allows the user to provide a list of responsible persons for the metric this list can be used by the dashboard application for example to determine responsible persons in taking actions sending alerts etc. .

Returning to the method includes providing an input mechanism to allow a user to identify a default metric group block . In this way the user can identify which metrics should be displayed on a summary screen upon initialization of the dashboard application.

At block the dashboard application provides an input mechanism for the user to identify a metric to be displayed in a first visible component. This procedure can be repeated as desired for example to allow the user to identify a second metric to be displayed in a second visible component etc. The number of metrics to be displayed generally is limited only by the number of available metrics and or the available screen real estate. In some cases it should be noted that the metric group interface of can be used to allow the user to identify these metrics. In other cases metric groups might not be used and the user can be provided with a facility to identify metrics for display on an individual basis such that blocks can be omitted. 

The user can also be provided with an input mechanism to specify a spatial arrangement of the displayed metrics block or more particularly of the visible components that are used to display the metrics block . In other words the user can specify the order in which the metrics should appear on a summary screen. The user can also be provided with an input mechanism to identify a display mode for each of the metrics to be displayed block .

After input has been received to identify the metrics to be displayed and optionally the spatial arrangement and or display modes of the metrics the dashboard application obtains data from the data store for generating and or displaying the metrics block . The metrics or information about the metrics is then displayed according to the input received from the user block .

The method therefore further comprises displaying at least some of the data block . Because the data generally will pertain to a metric displaying at least some of the data might comprise displaying the metric as described above for example. The method might also comprise providing an action interface such as the visible component illustrated on to allow the user to select an action to be performed with respect to at least a portion of the displayed data block . Upon receiving user input via the interface the dashboard application will initiate the selected action block . As noted above a variety of actions can be supported including without limitation invoking a business application sending an electronic mail message and or the like. Also as noted above in many cases the dashboard application will provide a context for the action block . Merely by way of example if a user drills down into a metric for example using one or more procedures described with respect to the filtered data displayed according to the drill down path might provide the context for the action.

The dashboard application might also provide a configuration interface to configure one or more actions block . Configuring an action block can include creating a new action and or modifying an existing action. If a new action is created the action might be displayed in the action interface. In some cases a number of default actions are provided with the dashboard application and configuring an action might include selecting such a pre configured action.

The method therefore further comprises displaying at least some of the data block . Because the data generally will pertain to a metric displaying at least some of the data might comprise displaying the metric as described above for example. As noted above a metric generally measures an identified business objective. Hence the method includes providing an interface to allow a user to define a goal for the metric block . The goal generally will identify a threshold value for the metric. The threshold value generally will depend on the nature of the metric itself. Merely by way of example if the metric measures unfulfilled orders the threshold value might indicate a maximum number of unfulfilled orders. Conversely if the metric measures plant output the threshold might indicate a minimum number of items output. If the goal is not being met this indicates that the business processes being evaluated by the metric are not performing at the desired level.

Hence if the metric does not attain the goal an alert is triggered block . A number of different types of alerts are possible. Merely by way of example an alert might comprise sending an electronic mail message to one or more entities responsible for the metric. Alternatively and or additionally an alert might comprise a message displayed in the dashboard application. For instance the summary screen depicted by includes an alert component that can be sued to display alerts generated by the dashboard application. Generally the alert component on the summary screen will include alerts pertaining to all of the metrics shown on the summary screen and possibly alerts pertaining to metrics that are part of metric groups not displayed on the summary screen . In addition the alert component can display alerts pertaining to any metrics for the user is the responsible party regardless of whether they are configured in any metric groups.

Alternatively and or additionally a detail screen might also include an alert component which might display only alerts related to the metrics to which the detail screen pertains and or might display all of the alerts for metrics configured in metric groups and or for which the user is responsible.

As noted above however metrics can be considered according to a number of dimensions and the dashboard application allows a user to view and or filter the metric according to any desired number of dimensions. Accordingly in a set of embodiments the dashboard application can establish dynamic goals block . Merely by way of example if the user has drilled down into a metric for example using one or more of the procedures described with respect to the dashboard application can establish a dynamic goal for the filtered data and can trigger an alert block when the filtered data indicates that the dynamic goal is not being met.

There are several ways to establish a dynamic goal. Merely by way of example in some cases the filtered data will represent a discrete subset of the overall set of data used to calculate the metric. For instance if the metric measures productivity over yearly periods the user might drilled down to a particular month. Hence the filtered data would represent 1 12 of the overall data used to produce the metric. Accordingly the dynamic goal might be established to be 1 12 of the overall defined goal by interpolating from the overall goal. The dashboard application can be configured to perform this type of interpolation automatically without requiring input from the user.

It should be noted however that because some metrics are cyclical linear interpolation might be inappropriate in some cases. As an example manufacturer of toys might expect fourth quarter sales to be significantly higher than sales in other quarters due to the holiday season. Embodiments of the invention can account for such conditions in multiple ways. First some embodiments provide an input mechanism to allow a user to input a value for a particular dynamic goal. This value then would override any interpolated goals. In some cases the dashboard would adjust other dynamic goals to maintain consistency with both the input value and the overall defined goal for the metric. Second other embodiments provide pre configured interpolation algorithms to account for cyclical metrics. Such algorithms can automatically account for varying values among a particular dimension such as the case when one plant is expect to produce more output than other plants etc. .

Conversely the dynamic goals can be rolled up to produce an aggregate goal over some collection of drill down data subsets block . For example if a metric has a defined goal for an annual period and the drill down path provides for filtering the data on a monthly basis thus establishing dynamic monthly goals the dashboard application can produce an aggregate goal for a time period of multiple months but less than a year by aggregating the necessary monthly goals. This aggregate goal can be compared with an aggregate metric generated by aggregating the actual data sets for the pertinent months. If the aggregation of this plurality of data sets indicates that the aggregate goal is not being met and alert is triggered block .

Other embodiments provide for system alerts. An exemplary system alert might be generated when an abnormal condition e.g. an equipment failure etc. is detected by the dashboard application and or by a business application. Merely by way of example one skilled in the art will appreciate that many business application provide interfaces to common manufacturing equipment and through such interfaces can detect abnormal conditions in such equipment. When such an abnormal condition is detected block an alert can be triggered block .

The computer system may further include and or be in communication with one or more storage devices which can comprise without limitation local and or network accessible storage and or can include without limitation a disk drive a drive array an optical storage device solid state storage device such as a random access memory RAM and or a read only memory ROM which can be programmable flash updateable and or the like. The computer system might also include a communications subsystem which can include without limitation a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device and or the like a wireless communication device and or chipset such as a Bluetooth device an 802.11 device a WiFi device a WiMax device cellular communication facilities etc. . The communications system may permit data to be exchanged with a network such as the network described below and or any other devices described herein. In many embodiments the computer system will further comprise a memory which can include a RAM or ROM device as described above.

The computer system also can comprise software elements shown as being currently located within the working memory including an operating system and or other code such as one or more application programs which may comprise computer programs of the invention such as a dashboard application web server web browser etc. and or may be designed to implement methods of the invention as described herein. Merely by way of example one or more procedures described with respect to the method s discussed above might be implemented as instructions executable by a computer and or a processor within a computer . A set of these instructions might be stored on a computer readable storage medium such as the storage device s described above. In some cases the storage medium might be incorporated within a computer system such that the instructions when executed by the computer system perform the procedures of the method s . In other embodiments the storage medium might be separate from a computer system i.e. a removable medium such as a compact disc etc. such that the storage medium can be used to program a generic computer with the instructions stored thereon.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substantial variations may be made in accordance with specific requirements. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

A set of embodiments comprises systems for implementing a dashboard application. Merely by way of example illustrates a schematic diagram of a system that can be used in accordance with one set of embodiments. The system can include one or more user computers . The user computers can be general purpose personal computers including merely by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running any appropriate flavor of Microsoft Corp. s Windows and or Apple Corp. s Macintosh operating systems and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems. These user computers can also have any of a variety of applications including one or more applications configured to perform methods of the invention as well as one or more office applications database client and or server applications and web browser applications. Alternatively the user computers can be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer Internet enabled mobile telephone and or personal digital assistant capable of communicating via a network e.g. the network described below and or displaying and navigating web pages or other types of electronic documents. Although the exemplary system is shown with three user computers any number of user computers can be supported.

Certain embodiments of the invention operate in a networked environment which can include a network . The network can be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example the network can be a local area network LAN including without limitation an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network including without limitation a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Embodiments of the invention can include one or more server computers . Each of the server computers may be configured with an operating system including without limitation any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating systems. Each of the servers may also be running one or more applications which can be configured to provide services to one or more clients and or other servers .

Merely by way of example one of the servers may be a web server which can be used merely by way of example to process requests for web pages or other electronic documents from user computers . The web server can also run a variety of server applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers database servers Java servers and the like. In some embodiments of the invention the web server may be configured to serve web pages that can be operated within a web browser on one or more of the user computers to perform methods of the invention.

The server computers in some embodiments might include one ore more file and or application servers which can include one or more applications accessible by a client running on one or more of the client computers and or other servers . Merely by way of example the server s can be one or more general purpose computers capable of executing programs or scripts in response to the user computers and or other servers including without limitation web applications which might in some cases be configured to perform methods of the invention . Merely by way of example a web application can be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C and or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations of any programming scripting languages. The application server s can also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like which can process requests from database clients running on a user computer and or another server . In some embodiments an application server can create web pages dynamically for displaying the information in accordance with embodiments of the invention such as dashboard application pages e.g. summary pages detail pages visible components etc. . Data provided by an application server may be formatted as web pages comprising HTML Javascript etc. for example and or may be forwarded to a user computer via a web server as described above for example . Similarly a web server might receive web page requests and or input data from a user computer and or forward the web page requests and or input data to an application server.

In accordance with further embodiments one or more servers can function as a file server and or can include one or more of the files necessary to implement methods of the invention incorporated by an application running on a user computer and or another server . Alternatively as those skilled in the art will appreciate a file server can include all necessary files allowing such an application to be invoked remotely by a user computer and or server . It should be noted that the functions described with respect to various servers herein e.g. application server database server web server file server etc. can be performed by a single server and or a plurality of specialized servers depending on implementation specific needs and parameters.

In certain embodiments the system can include one or more databases . The location of the database s is discretionary merely by way of example a database might reside on a storage medium local to and or resident in a server and or a user computer . Alternatively and or additionally a database can be remote from any or all of the computers so long as it can be in communication e.g. via the network with one or more of these. In a particular set of embodiments a database can reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Likewise any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers can be stored locally on the respective computer and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments a database can be a relational database such as an Oracle database that is adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The database might be controlled and or maintained by a database server as described above for example. In particular embodiments the database server might be configured with DBMS software and or storage management software.

While the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments one skilled in the art will recognize based on the disclosure herein that numerous modifications are possible. For example the methods and processes described herein may be implemented using hardware components software components and or any combination thereof. Further while various methods and processes described herein may be described with respect to particular structural and or functional components for ease of description methods of the invention are not limited to any particular structural and or functional architecture but instead can be implemented on any suitable hardware firmware and or software configuration. Similarly while various functionality is ascribed to certain system components unless the context dictates otherwise this functionality can be distributed among various other system components in accordance with different embodiments of the invention.

Moreover while the procedures comprised in the methods and processes described herein are described in a particular order for ease of description unless the context dictates otherwise various procedures may be reordered added and or omitted in accordance with various embodiments of the invention. Moreover the procedures described with respect to one method or process may be incorporated within other described methods or processes likewise system components described according to a particular structural architecture and or with respect to one system may be organized in alternative structural architectures and or incorporated within other described systems. Hence while various embodiments are described with or without certain features for ease of description and to illustrate exemplary features the various components and or features described herein with respect to a particular embodiment can be substituted added and or subtracted from among other described embodiments unless the context dictates otherwise. Consequently although the invention has been described with respect to exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.

