---

title: Apparatus and methods of sharing contact information between mobile communication devices using short message service
abstract: Methods and devices are presented for sharing contact information amongst wireless communication devices using Short Message Service (SMS) communication. SMS transfer of contact information occurs seamlessly, in that the sender automatically generates and sends a SMS message(s) that includes the contact information upon designating a contact file for sharing and supplying a recipient identifier, such as the recipient phone number. On the recipient device end, receiving the contact information also may occur seamlessly, such that the contact information can be automatically stored in the recipient's phone book or, in some aspects, automatically stored in the recipient's phone book based a user setting or response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08126484&OS=08126484&RS=08126484
owner: QUALCOMM, Incorporated
number: 08126484
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070326
---
The disclosed aspects relate to wireless communication devices and more particularly to apparatus and methods of sharing contact information amongst wireless communication devices using Short Message Service SMS communication.

Wireless communication devices have become a prevalent means by which majorities of people worldwide have come to communicate. As the cost of such devices and the cost of the services related to such devices such as cellular telephone services decreases the overall penetration of such devices among the general populous increases. No longer are wireless communication devices limited to business use and or emergency communication but rather they have become commonly used in all facets of life.

Most wireless communication devices include a large database of contacts typically referred to as a contact listing or an address book. Each contact listing may have numerous personal data associated with the contact such as contact name contact telephone number contact home or business address electronic mail email address and the like. In many instances a device user is able to place a communication call by accessing the contact entry in the contact listing as opposed to manually inputting the contact s telephone number by keypad entry.

In most instances the contact database is built over time by inputting received telephone numbers or placed telephone numbers for example from call logs and associating them with a name. Additionally the contact database can be built by sharing contact information between wireless communication devices. Currently various methods are available for sharing contact information amongst wireless devices.

In some wireless communication devices email is available as a means of communicating contact information between wireless devices. The contact database may allow for a user to select a contact file format the file in a personal data exchange format and attach the file to an email. Upon receipt the user of the recipient device can acknowledge the contact file attachment and choose to enter the contact information in the contact database of the recipient device. However this sharing platform has limited penetration in the wireless communication device environment such as the cellular telephone environment because it requires both the contact sharing device and the recipient device to be equipped with access to another public network beyond the cellular network such as the Internet or the like in order to send and receive email.

Other currently available sharing techniques are limited in terms of sharing range. For example wireless devices with Universal Serial Bus USB capability or the like allow for contact information to be exchanged between wireless devices or between a personal computer and a wireless device if the devices are physically connected via a cable. In another example wireless devices that are equipped with Bluetooth or Infrared Data Association IrDA communication capability are able to communicate contact information wirelessly however the range of such communication necessitates that the devices be in close proximity of one another in order for data transfer to occur.

Therefore a need exists to develop a contact sharing system for wireless communication device that provides a high level of device penetration in terms of capability. In addition the desired system for should allow for contact sharing to occur regardless of the proximity of the wireless devices. Also the desired system should be used user friendly and should be able to be easily incorporated in pre existing wireless communication devices.

Present aspects provide for methods devices systems and computer program products for sharing contact information amongst wireless devices using Short Message Service SMS communication. SMS otherwise referred to as text messaging is widely available on most wireless communication devices and as such provides an ideal vehicle for sharing of contact information. By employing SMS communication to share contact information a greater populous of wireless device users will be able to enjoy the benefits of seamless sharing of contact information. Since SMS employs the cellular network for data exchange contact information can be exchanged without regard to the proximity of the devices and without the need for physical connection.

In one aspect a method is provided for communicating shared contact information between mobile communication devices. The method includes generating one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that each include at least a portion of a contact information file in a predetermined format operable to be recognizable as shared contact information by an SMS receiving wireless communication device and communicating the one or more SMS messages to one or more predetermined wireless communication devices. In this regard due to the limitations on the size of an SMS message it may be necessary to segment the contact information file before sending the file via SMS. Formatting of the contact information file may include implementing a personal data exchange format such as vCard or the like or using a message identifier associated with a wireless application platform such BREW Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. or the like.

In one specific aspect of the method generating the SMS messages may involve providing a listing of user contact information files receiving a user selection of a contact information file receiving a user selection for sharing the selected contact information file with one or more wireless communication devices and generating automatically one or more SMS messages that include at least a portion of the selected contact information file. In this regard a device user may access a contact database otherwise referred to as a phone book address book personal information manager or the like to view a listing of contacts stored in the database. The user may choose a contact from among the listing of contacts for sharing and upon supplying an identifier such as the telephone number of the wireless devices to whom sharing is desired one or more SMS messages that include portion of the contact information file are automatically generated and communicated to the wireless communication device s .

In another specific aspect of the method generating the SMS message may involve receiving a text input for a SMS message that includes a contact information file entry recognizing the entry as being included with a stored contact information file generating a contact information share request based on recognition of the portion and receiving a user query for sharing the stored contact information file with one or more wireless communication devices. In this regard a user may input an SMS message that includes a contact information file entry such as a contact name a contact telephone number a contact email address or the like. The contact information file entry is recognized as being included within a stored contact listing as such the user may be provided with the option of sharing this contact information file with the designated recipient of the SMS message being generated. If the user chooses to share the contact information the text that includes the contact information file entry is identified such as by highlighting coloring or the like to allow the recipient of the SMS message to recognize that contact information related to the identified text i.e. the contact information file entry is available for acquisition.

Another aspect is defined by at least one processor configured to receive shared contact information at a wireless communication device. The processor includes a first module for generating one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that each include at least a portion of a contact information file in a predetermined format operable to be recognizable as shared contact information by an SMS receiving wireless communication device and a second module for communicating the one or more SMS messages to one or more predetermined wireless communication devices.

A computer program product provides for a further aspect. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium that includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to generate one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that each include at least a portion of a contact information file in a predetermined format operable to be recognizable as shared contact information by an SMS receiving wireless communication device and a second set of codes for causing a computer to communicating the one or more SMS messages to one or more predetermined wireless communication devices.

Another related aspect is defined by a wireless communication device that includes means for generating one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that each include at least a portion of a contact information file in a predetermined format operable to be recognizable as shared contact information by an SMS receiving wireless communication device and means for communicating the one or more SMS messages to one or more predetermined wireless communication devices.

A wireless communication device provides for another aspect. The device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory and a Short Message Service application stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The SMS application is operable to generate one or more SMS messages that each include at least a portion of a contact information file in a predetermined format operable to be recognizable as shared contact information by an SMS receiving wireless communication device. The wireless communication device also includes a communication module operable to communicate the one or more SMS messages to one or more predetermined wireless communication devices. In this regard due to the limitations on the size of an SMS message it may be necessary to segment the contact information file before sending the file via SMS. Formatting of the contact information file may include implementing a personal data exchange format such as vCard or the like or using a message identifier associated with a wireless application platform such as BREW or the like.

The wireless communication device may additionally include a contact listing module such as a phone book address book personal information manager or the like operable to provide a listing of user contact information files receive a user selection of a contact information file receive a user selection for sharing the selected contact information file with one or more wireless communication devices and prompt the SMS application to automatically generate one or more SMS messages that include at least a portion of the selected contact information file. The contact listing module may additionally be operable to receive a user selection of one or more wireless communication devices for sharing the selected contact information file. The one or more wireless communication devices designated for sharing of contact information file may be defined by and selected by an identifier such as associated telephone number.

The SMS application may additionally be operable to receive a text input for a SMS message that includes a portion of a contact information file recognize the portion as being associated with a stored contact information file generate a contact information share request based on recognition of the portion and receive a user query for sharing the stored contact information file with one or more wireless communication devices. The contact information file entry may include but is not limited to a contact name a contact telephone number a contact street address and a contact email address. In response to the SMS application receiving a request for sharing the stored contact information file the SMS application may additionally be operable to automatically generate one or more SMS messages that include at least a portion of the selected contact information file such that the contact information file is communicated to the designated share recipients via SMS.

Another aspect is defined by a method for receiving shared contact information at a wireless communication device. The method includes receiving one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that include at least a portion of a contact information file automatically recognizing that the one or more SMS messages include at least a portion of a contact information file and storing the contact information file in a contact database. The method may further include providing a user interface for requesting user approval prior to storing the contact information file in the contact database. In some aspects due to the limitations on size of SMS communications receiving one or more SMS messages may include receiving two or more messages such that each message includes a separate portion of the contact information file. In such aspects the method may further include aggregating the separate portions of the contact information file to form the contact information file prior to storing the contact information file in the database. In some aspects automatically recognizing that the one or more SMS messages include at least a portion of a contact information file may entail recognizing that the one or more SMS messages are in personal data exchange file format such as vCard format or recognizing a contact information identifier associated with a wireless communication device application development platform such as BREW or the like.

A related aspect is provided for by at least one processor configured to receive shared contact information at a wireless communication device. The processor includes a first module for receiving one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that include at least a portion of a contact information file a second module for automatically recognizing that the one or more SMS messages include at least a portion of a contact information file and a third module for storing the contact information file in a contact database.

Another related aspect is provided for by a computer program product. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium that includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that include at least a portion of a contact information file a second set of codes for causing a computer to automatically recognize that the one or more SMS messages include at least a portion of a contact information file and a third set of codes for causing a computer to store the contact information file in a contact database.

A further related aspect is defined by a wireless communication device including means for receiving one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that include at least a portion of a contact information file means for automatically recognizing that the one or more SMS messages include at least a portion of a contact information file and means for storing the contact information file in a contact database.

According to another aspect a wireless communication is defined. The wireless communication device includes a computer platform including a processor and a memory. The device also includes a communication module operable to receive one or more Short Message Service SMS messages that include at least a portion of a contact information file and a SMS application stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The SMS application is operable to automatically recognize that the one or more SMS messages include at least a portion of a contact information file and to store the contact information file in a contact database. The SMS application may additionally a user interface for requesting user approval prior to storing the contact information file in the contact database. Additionally in those aspects in which size limitations for SMS communication dictate that the contact information file be communicated via multiple SMS messages the SMS application may include an aggregator operable for aggregating two or more SMS messages that each includes at least a portion of a contact information file. The SMS application may recognize that the SMS messages include contact information file data based on the file format such as a personal data exchange file format or a contact information identifier associated with a wireless communication device application development platform such as BREW or the like.

Thus present aspects provide for methods and devices for sharing contact information amongst wireless communication devices using Short Message Service SMS communication. SMS transfer of contact information may occur seamlessly in that the sharing device automatically generates and sends a SMS message s that includes the contact information upon receiving a designated a contact for sharing and receiving a recipient designator such as the recipient phone number. On the recipient device end receiving the contact information also occurs seamlessly such that the contact information is automatically stored in the contact list of the recipient device or in some aspects automatically stored in the contact list based on a user setting or response. Since SMS communication is prevalent amongst the majority of wireless communication devices in the market the present aspects provide for a greater degree of device penetration as compared to other methods that utilize other types of communication networks. Additionally since SMS communication utilizes the wireless communication network sharing of contact information is not limited in geographic range to close proximity sharing but can be shared across the range of the wireless network.

The present devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which aspects of the invention are shown. The devices apparatus methods computer readable media and processors however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the aspects set forth herein rather these aspects are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

The various aspects for sharing contact information via Short Message Service SMS communication are described herein in connection with a wireless communication device. A wireless communication device can also be called a subscriber station a subscriber unit mobile station mobile remote station access point remote terminal access terminal user terminal user agent a user device or user equipment. A wireless communication device may be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability or other processing device connected to a wireless modem.

The described aspects provide for methods apparatus and computer program products for sharing contact information amongst wireless communication devices using Short Message Service SMS communication. SMS is a store and forward message service available on many second generation and all third generation wireless networks that allows users to send and receive short text messages over wireless devices. Since SMS communication is prevalent amongst the majority of wireless communication devices in the market the present aspects provide for a greater degree of device penetration as compared to other methods that utilize other types of communication. Additionally since SMS communication utilizes the wireless network sharing of contact information is not limited in geographic range to close proximity sharing but can be shared across the range of the wireless network. By implementing SMS communication contact information can be shared amongst wireless communication devices seamlessly in this regard the users of the wireless communication devices may be unaware that SMS is the communication vehicle for the contact information.

Referring to a block diagram is provided for a system for sharing contact information between wireless communication devices using SMS communication. The system includes a first wireless communication device also referred to as the sharing device and a second wireless communication device also referred to as the contact recipient device. The first and second wireless communication device are in wireless communication via wireless network which provides for SMS communication. It should be noted that while the first wireless communication device is discussed in terms of sharing contact information and the second wireless communication device is discussed in terms of receiving the shared contact information in most instances the first and second wireless devices are capable of both sending and receiving contact information via SMS. Thus the first wireless communication device will typically include similar hardware apparatus modules and or logic as the second wireless communication device to allow for receiving shared contact information and the second wireless communication device will typically include similar hardware apparatus modules and or logic as the first wireless communication device to allow for sharing communicating contact information.

The first wireless communication device includes a computing platform having a processor and a memory . The memory includes contact information database such as a phonebook contact list address book personal information manager or the like that includes a plurality of contact information files such as listings of contacts. Each contact information file includes contact information such as one or any combination of related information including name home and or work and or mobile telephone number facsimile fax number electronic mail email address home address business address personal data web page URL address other digital addresses and the like. The device user may receive contact information electronically from other communication devices or the device user may manually enter contact information into files.

The memory includes SMS module which is typically operable to allow a user a platform to input a short message commonly referred to as a text message and to communicate the short message to one or more identified wireless communication devices. In disclosed aspects the SMS module may include a contact information message generator operable to generate an SMS message that includes the contact information from the selected file . In some aspects the contact information message generator will automatically generate the SMS message such as when prompted by any module or application. The contact information message generator will be operable to generate the message in a predetermined format that provides for the recipient device s to automatically recognize that the message includes contact information. For example the contact information message generator may be operable to format the message in a standard personal data exchange format such as vCard format or the like. In another example the contact information message generator may format the message with a contact information identifier typically located in a message header that is recognizable to the SMS module of the recipient device or a wireless communication device application development platform such as BREW Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. or the like. In this regard contact information message generator generates SMS message in any format that provides for the recipient wireless communication device s to automatically recognize that the SMS message includes contact information as opposed to being a conventional or non contact information bearing text message.

The computer platform additionally includes communication module that is operable for sending and receiving wireless communications across a wireless network such as wireless network . In disclosed aspects communication module is operable for communicating the SMS messages that include contact information to the designated recipient wireless communication devices.

The system of also includes second wireless communication device that serves as a designated recipient device for receiving the shared contact information. The second wireless communication device includes a computing platform having a processor and a memory . The memory includes contact information database such as a phonebook contact list address book personal information manager or the like that includes a plurality of contact information files such as listings of contacts.

The computer platform additionally includes communication module that is operable for sending and receiving wireless communications across a wireless network such as wireless network . In disclosed aspects communication module is operable for receiving wireless communication of the SMS messages that include contact information and communicating the SMS message to the SMS module .

Memory includes SMS module that is typically operable to provide the user with an interface such as windowed display for communicating the SMS message. In the disclosed aspects the SMS module includes contact format recognition logic operable to recognize the format of the SMS message as a predetermined format associated with contact information. As previously noted the SMS message will be formatted so as to be recognizable as including contact information. For example the contact format recognition logic may be operable to recognize a personal data exchange format such as vCard or a contact information identifier typically located in a message header. In some aspects the contact information identifier may be recognizable to SMS module and or a wireless communication device application development platform such as BREW .

Referring to according to one aspect a detailed block diagram representation of first wireless communication device is depicted. The wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless communication device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The present apparatus and methods for sharing contact information using SMS can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as SMS module and contact listing module stored in the memory of the wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. In aspects in which the communication device is defined as a cellular telephone the communications processor may additionally include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management digital signal processor messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc all of which are not individually depicted in for the sake of clarity . For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the SMS module and Contact Listing Module .

The memory of computer platform includes contact listing database such as a contact phonebook contact list address book personal information manager or the like that includes a plurality of contact information files such as a listing of the contacts. The contact information files include contact information such as one or any combination of related information including name home and or business and or mobile telephone number fax number electronic mail email address home address business address personal data web page URL address other digital addresses and the like.

The memory of of computer platform also includes a contact listing module which is operable to provide user access to the contact listing database . The contact listing module may be a standalone application or the module may be accessible to the user through other communication applications such as Short Message Service SMS module a Voice Message Service VMS module not shown in an email module not shown in or the like . The contact listing module includes a contact share user interface that is operable to allow the user to select one or more information contact files for sharing and to identify the recipient s of the selected contact information files by inputting or selecting one or more recipient wireless device identifiers such as the recipient device s telephone numbers. The wireless device identifier may be any identifier that is used by the SMS module to identify the wireless device to which SMS messages are to be sent. The contact listing module also may include an SMS prompt that is operable to prompt the SMS module for generating an SMS message once a user has selected one or more contact information files for sharing and has identified the recipients through input selection of recipient wireless device identifiers . Prompting the SMS module includes communicating to the SMS module the contact information from the selected files s and the one or more recipient wireless device identifiers .

As noted the memory of computer platform also includes SMS module that is typically operable to allow a user a platform to input a short message commonly referred to as a text message and to communicate the short message to one or more identified wireless communication devices. In disclosed aspects the SMS module may include a contact information message generator operable to generate a SMS message that includes the contact information from the selected files . In some aspects the contact information message generator will automatically generate the SMS messages such as when prompted by the contact listing module or any other module or application. Automatic generation and communication of the contact information message provides for seamless sharing of the contact information between the wireless devices. As such once a user selects a contact information file for sharing the SMS module may be automatically launched to automatically generate and communicate the contact SMS contact information message . In this regard the sharing user may be unaware that SMS is being used as the communication vehicle for sharing the contact information.

The SMS module may also include a contact information segmentor operable for segmenting the contact information in the contact information file into two or more segments. SMS communication is generally limited in terms of the size of the message that may be communicated and as such sharing of contact file information may include communication of multiple SMS messages with each message including one of the segmented portions of the file. It should be noted that while the contact information segmentor is illustrated and described in relation to the SMS module it may be implemented anywhere within memory such as within contact listing module or the like. Additionally in alternate aspects segmentation may occur after the SMS contact information message has been generated prior to communicating sharing the contact information with the designated recipient device s . In those aspects in which segmentation of the contact information is utilized the messages may include a segment identifier and or a sequence identifier such as header flags that are operable to identify the SMS message as a segment of a contact information file and provide the proper sequence number for aggregating the contact information file upon receipt.

The contact information message generator will be operable to generate the message in a predetermined format that provides for the recipient device s to automatically recognize that the message includes contact information. For example the contact information message generator may be operable to format the message in a standard personal data exchange format such as vCard format or the like. In another example the contact information message generator may format the message with a contact information identifier typically a header flag. In some aspects the contact information identifier may be recognizable to SMS module and or to a wireless communication device application development platform such as BREW or the like. In this regard contact information message generator generates SMS message in any format that provides for the recipient wireless communication device s to automatically recognize that the SMS message includes contact information as opposed to being a conventional or non contact information bearing text message.

In an alternative aspect the SMS module may be operable to recognize a contact entry in a conventional user inputted SMS message. The recognized contact entry is associated with a corresponding entry in a stored contact information file. Recognition of the contact entry may prompt a user query to determine whether sharing of the associated contact information file is desired. If the user desires to share the associated contact information file the contact entry in the SMS message is identified as being associated with shared contact information and sharing of the contact information file is provided. In this regard the SMS module includes a general message generator operable to provide a user with a message interface for inputting the text for a SMS message . The general message generator may include a contact entry recognizer operable for recognizing inputted text as a contact entry e.g. all or a portion of the data associated with contact information in a stored contact information file . For example if the user types or otherwise inputs a stored contact name stored contact telephone number stored contact email address or the like in the body of the SMS message the contact entry recognizer will determine that the input is associated with a stored one of the contact information and prompt the user if attachment of the associated contact information is desired.

In this alternate aspect the general message generator may also include a contact share user interface operable for providing a contact information share option to the user upon recognition of the contact entry . For example if a user inputs the telephone number of a stored contact the module will recognize the telephone number as an entry within a stored contact information file and provide the user with contact share user interface such as a display window which provides the user the option of sharing the contact information with the recipient of the SMS message being generated by the user. The general message generator may also include contact entry identifier that is operable for providing identifier ID to the contact entry in the SMS message to identify the entry as being associated with a shared contact information file. Identification of the contact entry is implemented if the user chooses to share the contact information file associated with the contact entry . The ID may be an identifier in the message header that provides for automatic recognition that the contact entry has an associated shared contact file . Alternatively ID may highlight the contact entry for example bold type underline italicize or otherwise visually identify the contact entry as being associated with a shared contact information so that the recipient of the SMS message can recognize that the contact entry has an associated contact information file and perform the necessary action to obtain and store the contact information file . In some aspects the ID may further provide for a link embedded within contact entry that provides for the contact information file to be obtained from a network resource such as a network server or obtained locally based on previous receipt of SMS contact information message .

In some aspects of the alternate aspect once the user has indicated a desire to share the contact information file associated with the contact entry the contact information file may be communicated to the contact information message generator and SMS contact information message may be automatically generated and communicated to the recipient of the general SMS message . In this regard the recipient of the general SMS message receives multiple SMS messages the general SMS text message that includes the contact entry and identifier and one or more SMS contact information messages that include portions or the entirety of the contact information file .

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the wireless communication device as well as between the communication device and wireless network . In described aspects the communication module enables the communication of all SMS correspondence between wireless communication device the wireless network and the devices receiving the SMS communications for example second wireless communication device of . The communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a wireless network communication connection.

Additionally wireless communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provide for user input to interface with an application such as contact listing module and SMS module . Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display operable to display Message input UI contact share UI contact share UI and the like.

Referring to according to one aspect a detailed block diagram representation of second wireless communication device is depicted. Similar to first wireless communication device second wireless communication device may include any type of computerized communication device such as cellular telephone Personal Digital Assistant PDA two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communications portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The present apparatus and methods for receiving shared contact information using SMS can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless communication device or wireless computer module including a wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals desktop computers or any combination or sub combination thereof.

The wireless communication device includes computer platform that can transmit data across a wireless network and that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computer platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computer platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as SMS module stored in the memory of the wireless device . API is typically a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device for example BREW or other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on a wireless network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with the SMS module .

The memory of computer platform includes contact listing database such as a contact phonebook contact list address book personal information manager or the like that includes a plurality of contact information files such as a listing of contacts. The contact information files include contact information such as one or any combination of related information including name home and or business and or mobile telephone number fax number electronic mail email address home address business address personal data web page URL address other digital addresses and the like.

The computer platform additionally includes communication module that is operable for sending and receiving wireless communications across a wireless network such as wireless network . In disclosed aspects communication module is operable for receiving wireless communication of the SMS contact information messages and SMS messages that include a contact entry having an identifier and communicating the SMS contact information message and the SMS message to the SMS module .

Memory includes SMS module that is operable to generate and receive SMS messages. In the disclosed aspects the SMS module includes contact format recognition logic operable to recognize the predetermined format of the SMS contact information message as a format that is associated with contact information . As previously noted the SMS contact information message will be formatted so as to be recognizable as including contact information . For example the contact format recognition logic may be operable to recognize a personal data exchange format such as vCard or a contact information identifier typically message header flag or the like. In some aspects contact information may be recognizable to a wireless communication device application development platform such as the BREW Platform.

The SMS module may additionally include contact storage user interface operable for providing a user with an interface such as a windowed display for communicating that a contact information file has been received and asking the user if they desire to store the contact information file in contact listing database . In alternate aspects contact storage user interface may be omitted or configurable by the user to allow to be set in an automated mode thereby providing for received SMS messages that include contact information to be automatically communicated to and stored in contact listing database . If the user chooses not to store the contact information file the SMS message s may be deleted or temporarily stored in the SMS module .

The SMS module may also include a contact information aggregator operable for aggregating segments of the contact information file into an entire contact information file . As previously noted SMS communication is generally limited in terms of the size of the message that may be communicated and as such sharing of contact file information may utilize communication of multiple SMS messages with each message including one of the segmented portions of the file. The contact information aggregator may additionally be operable for identifying the SMS contact info message as including a segment of a contact information file and identifying a sequence number associated with the file . It should be noted that while the contact information aggregator is illustrated and described in relation to the SMS module it may be implemented anywhere within memory or the communication module . Additionally in alternate aspects aggregation may occur prior to or after the contact information has been formatted in an appropriate contact storage format.

The SMS module may additionally include contact storage formatting logic that is operable for formatting the received contact information in a proper format suitable for storage in contact listing database . For example if the received contact information SMS message is formatted in a personal data exchange format such as vCard or the like which is not compatible with the format of the resident contact listing database then the contact storage formatting logic may operate to reformat the contact information into a new compatible format prior to storing the contact information in contact listing database . As such contact storage formatting logic may include one or more algorithms or any mechanism operable to translate content information from a first format to a second format.

In alternate aspects in which wireless communication device is operable to receive SMS messages that include a contact entry having an associated ID the SMS module may include contact entry ID recognizer operable for automatically recognizing that the identified contact entry is associated with a shared contact information file . Recognition of the contact entry ID may prompt the SMS module to launch contact storage user interface operable for notifying the user that a contact information file has been received and asking the user if they desire to store the contact information file in contact listing database . Alternatively the contact entry ID may be a visual ID that is recognizable to the user as being associated with a contact information file . Upon recognition of ID the user may provide a device input such as activating a link embedded in the contact entry or the like to direct the SMS module to store the contact information file in contact listing database or to acquire the contact information file from the sharing wireless communication device or another network entity such as a network server and subsequently store the contact information file in contact listing database .

Additionally wireless communication device has input mechanism for generating inputs into communication device and output mechanism for generating information for consumption by the user of the communication device. For example input mechanism may include a mechanism such as a key or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone etc. In certain aspects the input mechanisms provides for user input to interface with an application such as SMS module . Further for example output mechanism may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. In the illustrated aspects the output mechanism may include a display operable to display SMS message .

Referring to a flow diagram is shown that depicts a method for sharing contact information between wireless communication devices using Short Message Service SMS according to an aspect. At Event a wireless communication device generates one or more SMS contact information messages that include at least a portion of a contact information file. SMS communication is limited in terms of the size of the message that can be communicated and therefore in some aspects communicating contact information files may include segmenting the file prior to SMS communication when the overall size of the contact information file exceeds the SMS size limit. In the case of a segmented contact information file each segmented portion can be included in a separate SMS message and the segmented portions can be identified either as being a part of a segmented file or as being associated with a given contact for rejoining into a contact information file. In use once the multiple SMS contact information messages are received at a designated wireless device the segmented messages will be properly sequenced and aggregated to form the contact information file prior to storing the file in a contact listing database.

The SMS contact information file s are generated in a predetermined format to be recognizable as shared contact information by the wireless communication device or devices that are designated to receive the SMS contact information message s . For example in some aspects the SMS contact information files may be formatted in a personal data exchange format such as vCard or the like which may then be recognized by the receiving device as contact information as opposed to a standard SMS message. In other aspects the SMS contact information message s may be formatted to be recognizable by a wireless application platform such as the BREW platform or the like. In some aspects an identifier or flag in the message header may be added to identify the message as including contact information as opposed to being a conventional or a non contact information bearing text message. It is noted that any format that provides for the designated receiving wireless device to recognize the SMS message as including contact information suitable for storage in a contact listing database is within the confines of the present aspects.

At Event the one or more SMS contact information messages are communicated to one or more predetermined wireless communication devices. In most aspects the user will select one or more wireless communication devices to share the contact information with the user of the selected devices. Typically selection of one or more wireless devices will involve input or selection of a device identifier such as a device telephone number which serves as the address for SMS communication although other methods could be utilized to define the recipient. While in some aspects SMS communication may be limited to one to one communication in other aspects it may be feasible to configure the SMS system to provide for communication sharing of the SMS contact information messages with more than one device.

Referring now to a flow diagram is provided of a detailed method for sharing contact information amongst wireless communication devices using Short Message Service SMS communication. At Event a listing of user contact information files is provided on a wireless communication device. Typically a user will access a standalone contact listing application or a communication application such as an SMS application an email application or the like to display a listing of user contact information files.

At Event the wireless communication device receives a selection of a contact information file. In many aspects selection of a contact information file may involve a user input such as double click of a selection key or a right click mouse function or the like.

At Event the wireless communication device receives a user selection indicating a request to share the selected contact information file. In many aspects once a contact information file has been selected an option menu may appear that includes an option for sharing the contact information file. At Event the sharing device receives an identifier of one or more wireless communication devices to be recipients of the selected contact information file. In some aspects receiving the identifiers of the share recipients may involve receiving a selection of the recipients from a displayed listing e.g. a listing of other contacts in the contact listing database. In other aspects receiving the identifier of the share recipients may involve receiving an input of wireless device identifiers such as the telephone number s of the designated share recipients into an appropriate displayed share recipient input field.

At Event once a contact information file has been selected for sharing and the share recipients have been identified the wireless communication device generates one or more SMS contact information messages that each includes at least a portion of the selected contact information file. In some aspects the wireless device generates the SMS contact information automatically such as in aspects in which the device receives a selection of a contact information file an indication to share the selected contact information file and a selection of share recipient devices. Thus in some aspects automatic generation of the SMS messages will be initiated by the contact listing application prompting the launch of the SMS module application where the forwarding of the contact information file and the designated share recipients will prompt the SMS module to automatically generate the SMS contact information messages. In alternate aspects the one or more contact information messages may be manually generated and configured by the sharing device user.

The SMS contact information may be generated in a predetermined format that is operable to be recognizable as shared contact information by an SMS receiving wireless communication device. For example in some aspects the SMS contact information files may be formatted in a personal data exchange format such as vCard or the like which is recognizable by the receiving device as contact information as opposed to a standard SMS message. In other aspects the SMS contact information message s may be formatted to be recognizable by a wireless application platform such as the BREW platform or the like. In such aspects an identifier or flag in the message header may be added to identify the message as including contact information as opposed to being a conventional or a non contact information bearing text message. It is noted that any format that provides for the designated receiving wireless devices to recognize the SMS message as including contact information suitable for storage in a contact listing database is within the confines of the present aspects.

At Event once the SMS contact information messages have been generated the messages are communicated via SMS protocol to one or more designated share recipient wireless communication devices.

Referring to another flow diagram is illustrated for a detailed method for sharing contact information between wireless communication devices using SMS communication according to another aspect. In this aspect the SMS application recognizes the input of text or data in a conventional SMS text message as being text data that matches a portion of a stored contact information file such as a contact entry e.g. a name a phone number an email address etc. Upon recognition of the contact entry the SMS application prompts the user to determine if the user desires to share the related contact information file.

At Event a wireless communication device receives input for an SMS text message that includes text data associated with contact information stored in a contact information file. In this regard a user is inputting typically via keypad keystrokes the text portion of a conventional SMS text message. A portion of the SMS text message may include information associated with the contact information file entry such as a contact name a contact home or business address a contact telephone number a contact email address or the like.

At Event the wireless communication device recognizes the portion of the inputted data as matching an entry included within a stored contact information file. In some aspects recognition involves comparing the inputted data to the data within the contact information files currently residing in the contact listing database.

At Event based on the recognition a contact information share query is generated and presented on the device. In some aspects a window will be displayed asking the user if they desire to share the contact information file that is associated with the contact information entry. In other aspects an audible sound such as a computer generated voice may be output by a speaker on the device.

In response to the query if the user desires to share the contact information the wireless device receives a user request at Event . In this instance the wireless device does not need to receive identification information for the designated share recipient because the contact information will be shared with the same wireless device that is to receive the SMS text message.

At Event the wireless communication device generates automatically in some cases based on the logic within the respective SMS module one or more SMS contact information messages that each include at least a portion of the selected contact information file formatted to recognizable as contact information by the recipient wireless device. In some aspect automatic generation of the SMS contact information messages will be initiated by internally receiving the request to share from the SMS module and receiving the contact information file from the contact listing database. Further in some aspects the SMS contact information message may be a separate message from the original SMS text message that was being composed and that caused generation of the query. In other aspects the SMS contact information message may be combined with the original SMS text message.

At Event the wireless communication device communicates the SMS contact information message s via SMS protocol to the wireless device that has been designated the recipient of the SMS text message.

Referring to a flow diagram is provided for a method for receiving shared contact information from a wireless communication device using SMS communication according to another aspect. At Event a wireless communication device receives one or more SMS contact information messages that each includes at least a portion of a contact information file. As previously noted SMS communication is limited in terms of the size of the message that can be communicated and therefore in many aspects communicating contact information files will include segmenting the file prior to SMS communication with each segmented portion being included in a separate SMS message.

At Event the wireless communication device recognizes typically automatically that the one or more received SMS contact information messages include at least a portion of a contact information file. Recognition of the SMS contact information messages may involve recognizing the format or indicator implemented to designate the SMS message s as contact information SMS messages. The recognition action allows the contact sharing SMS messages to be processed differently from conventional text SMS messages. Additionally recognition of the SMS contact information message may initiate an option to save the contact info as opposed to displaying the message. In the case of a plurality of related messages e.g. a series of segmented SMS contact information messages once the multiple SMS contact information messages are received and recognized as including contact information the messages will be properly sequenced and aggregated to form the contact information file.

At Event the contact information file is stored in a contact listing database. In some aspects the contact information file may be stored automatically upon receipt and recognition while in other aspects the wireless device will provide the user with a storage request which asks the user if they desire to store the received contact information file in their respective database.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of instructions or codes on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be embodied in a computer program product. Further in some aspects a processor may embody the described functions and methods in one or more modules.

Thus present aspects provide for methods and devices for sharing contact information amongst wireless communication devices using Short Message Service SMS communication. SMS transfer of contact information may occur seamlessly in that the sender automatically generates and sends a SMS message s that includes the contact information upon designating a contact for sharing and supplying a recipient identifier such as the recipient phone number. On the recipient device end receiving the contact information also occurs seamlessly such that the contact information is automatically stored in the recipient s phone book or in some aspects automatically stored in the recipient s phone book based the recipient acquiescing the contact information. Since SMS communication is prevalent amongst the majority of wireless communication devices in the market the present aspects provide for a greater degree of device penetration as compared to other methods that utilize other types of communication. Additionally since SMS communication utilizes the wireless network sharing of contact information is not limited in geographic range to close proximity sharing but can be shared across the range of the wireless network.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

