---

title: Search scheduling and delivery
abstract: A search request from a user is received wherein the search request comprises a search framework profile and at least one search term. Scheduling information is accessed from the search framework profile and a search operation is scheduled for execution in accordance with the at least one search term and search scheduling information. An indication that the search request is scheduled for execution is returned to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775421&OS=08775421&RS=08775421
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08775421
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071016
---
This application is a divisional application and claims priority to and incorporates herein by reference U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 866 297 filed Jun. 10 2004 for Gregory Plow and Farrokh Pourmirzaie. This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 866 295 filed Jun. 10 2004 entitled FRAMEWORK REACTIVE SEARCH FACILITY for Gregory Plow and Farrokh Pourmirzaie and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 866 140 filed Jun. 10 2004 entitled SEARCH FRAMEWORK METADATA for Gregory Plow and Farrokh Pourmirzaie both of which are pending and which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to search technology. More specifically the present invention relates to a method computer program product and system for scheduling and delivering search results.

The significance of search engine technology is well known and continues to receive more and more attention in the media. This is because search engines have become an indispensable connection to vast quantities of information for users of the world wide web. Like the Internet browser a search engine may have millions of loyal users wherein the leaders in this technology command significant mind share that can be leveraged to advantage in many other applications. Accordingly intense competition exists between vendors offering search technology solutions.

The store of online information continues to grow exponentially which in turn places increasing demands upon search engines to work more efficiently and to produce higher quality i.e. more useful results. Unfortunately even in view of search engine technology advances today s search engines have been unable to accommodate the needs of users in the face of this explosive data growth. It is not unusual for a search engine to return literally hundreds of result pages in response to a keyword search. Unfortunately the tedious exercise of visiting each site to determine the set of relevant sites of potential interest is left as an exercise to the user. The loss of productivity is substantial and the frustration of users is unacceptably high.

Prior art search engines limit a user s ability to communicate an accurate representation of the search task to be performed. Many non topical search characteristics i.e. any information other than search keywords that would be desirable to specify are not currently possible. Of those non topical search characteristics that can be specified their specification is tedious and error prone. Many desirable non topical search characteristics are not specifiable since there is currently no defined way for the search engine to determine the presence of the characteristic for any given web page.

There are many non topical aspects of a search that may have a bearing on determining the potential usefulness of a search result. In addition to matching a particular search keyword other questions of interest may be Who is performing the search What is the purpose of the search Where should the search engine look for results How often when and where should the search results be delivered For example two different searchers enter the search keywords root canal. One searcher is a dentist looking for information on new advances in the field. The other searcher is a dental patient looking for information to provide a basic understanding of the procedure to be performed on her tooth. Both receive the same search results yet it is apparent that both searchers are looking for entirely different information. If searchers are able to communicate additional information about who they are and the purpose of their search and if search engines are able to react to such non topical data individualized search results of higher relevancy can be realized.

Prior art search engines are unable to accommodate all potentially useful non topical information in a comprehensive way instead implementing only a select few options and choices for users to consider. Numerous problems arise when trying to manage a large amount of non topical data. A comprehensive specification of non topical data may be tedious and error prone in its specification furthermore even if these problems were resolved the prior art search engines would be unable to determine the affinity of a web page search result to all the numerous non topical specifications.

For the non topical aspects of a search that are specifiable in the prior art a problem arises for a user in establishing their specification. Each time a different type of search is performed the user must re evaluate and or re edit each non topical specification prior to initiating the new search operation. This is because there is no convenient way in the prior art search technology for remembering patterns of specifications associated with commonly performed search operations.

Accordingly there is a great need to provide a way to receive and manage a wide variety of non topical search specifications that more accurately encapsulate the set of characteristics that make a search result useful to a searcher. Furthermore there is also a great need to facilitate a user s desire to schedule a search to be performed at a future time either selected by the user or determined dynamically in accordance with enhancing the efficient utilization of computing resources. In addition to flexibility with scheduling it is desirable to facilitate delivering search results to one or more specifiable destinations and in a specifiable form. Further still there is a need to remember patterns of non topical search specifications associated with types of searches commonly performed by a particular user. A search engine technology that can enhance the relevancy of search results and enhance user productivity will have a significant advantage in the marketplace.

To overcome these limitations in the prior art briefly described above the present invention provides a method for scheduling and delivering search results responsive to a user search request.

A search request from a user is received wherein the search request comprises a search framework profile and at least one search term. Scheduling information is accessed from the search framework profile and a search operation is scheduled for execution in accordance with the at least one search term and search scheduling information. An indication that the search request is scheduled for execution is returned to the user.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for delivering search results responsive to a user request to perform a search operation. A search request is received from a user wherein the search request comprises search delivery information and at least one search term. At least one designated destination address and a designated delivery form corresponding to the destination address are accessed from the search delivery information. The search results comprising the at least one search term are delivered to the designated destination address in the designated delivery form.

In yet other embodiments of the present invention the above described methods may be provided as a computer system or be tangibly embodied in and or readable from a computer readable medium containing program code or alternatively computer instructions. Program code when read and executed by a computer system causes the computer system to perform the above described method.

Utilizing the present invention a user may schedule search operations to be performed in a more efficient manner and at a more convenient time. In addition much greater flexibility is afforded the user in delivering the obtained search results in a more convenient form and at a preferred destination address as well as designating a plurality of destination addresses with corresponding delivery forms. A search facility delivering these benefits to a user will have a significant advantage in the marketplace.

Various advantages and features of novelty which characterize the present invention are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the invention and its advantages reference should be made to the accompanying descriptive matter together with the corresponding drawings which form a further part hereof in which there is described and illustrated specific examples in accordance with the present invention.

The present invention overcomes the limitations discussed supra associated with the prior art by teaching a framework reactive search facility alternatively referred to herein as SF for searching a data store for relevant information. Within the present context relevancy is defined herein to be the characteristic of information that pertains to the degree of usefulness for the intended purpose of a searcher.

Those skilled in the art will recognize however that the teaching contained herein may be applied to embodiments and variations not shown and that the present invention may be practiced apart from the specific details taught herein. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the present invention and is provided in the context of a patent application and its requirements.

A brief overview of the present invention is now described in conjunction with block diagram of wherein the basic components of a preferred embodiment are illustrated. SF receives a search request from a searcher utilizing workstation to initiate her search. A search request specifies one or more search terms and optionally specifies a search framework profile hereinafter referred to as an SFP . A search term is typically a search keyword but may encompass other forms such as an audio clip an image or any other entity that may have an occurrence within the data being searched.

An SFP is a named collection of non topical data i.e. data that is useful in directing a search facility to find relevant information but where the non topical data excludes the actual search terms to be used to direct a search . The name of the collection is the SFP name and is specifiable by a user to represent the named collection of non topical search data to be used for a search operation. Searcher utilizes SFP tooling to generate or modify one or more SFPs in accordance with the needs of searcher . In various embodiments SFP tooling is in the form of an SFP Wizard to lead searcher through an SFP definitional or modification process in a user friendly way that ensures accuracy and expediency.

If a symbolic reference to an SFP is specified SF searches repository to locate and retrieve the matching SFP. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a repository may be implemented in a variety of forms. Exemplary repository forms include computer files databases tables control blocks and the like.

Utilizing web SF invokes the services of one or more search engines or . SF receives an accumulated set of search results referred to herein as an accumulated result set from the invoked search engines and ranks these results in accordance with the degree of affinity of each search result entity with a specified SFP. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that ranking means assigning an order of relative value to each search result with respect to the other search results in the accumulated result set.

For example a relative ranking code may be assigned to each result with a predetermined range such as 1 100. Alternatively the results may be ordered in accordance with their relative value or a combination of ordering and ranking codes may be utilized. In other various embodiments search result entities may be dropped from the accumulated result set when the degree of affinity is below a threshold value. The resulting set following the aforementioned ranking pruning process is referred to herein as the final result set.

The aforementioned ranking process is facilitated by the use of search framework metadata hereinafter referred to as SFM which is generated by other various processes described in greater detail infra. SFM is saved in repository whenever it is generated and subsequently may be used in the SF ranking process.

Exemplary processes generating SFM include direct input from a web page owner or web page developer as well as evaluations from a web page viewer . Web page viewer may be surfing the web utilizing browser . SFM may also be heuristically derived by utilizing browser to observe how search results delivered to a searcher are subsequently used.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that is exemplary in nature and is intended to instruct by showing an exemplary configuration for use with the present invention and accordingly its structure should not be limiting in any way. For example in other various embodiments SF internally incorporates one or more search engines and or search engine functionality wherein search engines are not accessed by SF . Alternatively a search engine may be modified to incorporate the novel SF functionality disclosed herein.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will further recognize that use of web pages to illustrate the present invention are exemplary in nature. Other units of information in addition to web pages may be the target of intended search operations such as computer files text pages paragraphs chapters objects and any other types of entities comprising related information known to exist or to become known at a future time.

Further still those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that use of the Internet to illustrate the present invention is exemplary in nature. Numerous other forms of searchable data stores are anticipated by the present invention and include such forms as computer memory computer files networks intranets databases Network Attached Storage NAS Storage Area Networks SANs and of course the World Wide Web.

Additional detail is now presented to further augment the high level overview described above. Generally the novel methods disclosed herein may be provided as a computer system or tangibly embodied in and or readable from a computer readable medium containing the program code or alternatively computer instructions which when read and executed by a computer system or processor causes the computer system or processor to perform the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention.

Thus the present invention may be implemented as a method a system or an article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. The term article of manufacture or alternatively computer program product as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media. Examples of a computer readable device or media include palpable physical media such as a CD ROM diskette hard drive electronic memory and the like.

Referring now to Internet browser window illustrates an exemplary user interface for one embodiment of SF. Window portion comprises the name of the current application followed by a hyphen and then the name of the Internet browser. For exemplary purposes FRSF is arbitrarily selected to represent the name of the SF application and also in an arbitrary manner IB represents the name of the Internet browser. Window portion further comprises various window functions such as minimize resize and close. Window functions are not further explained here as their operations are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Window portion comprises various drop down menus that are typically present with known browser technology as well as other windows based applications. These menus are not further explained here as their operations are familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art. Window portion comprises additional browser functions such as directing the browser to revisit a previously viewed page. These functions are also known to those of ordinary skill in the art and accordingly are not further taught in the present disclosure. Window portion is used by the user to enter a particular website address. Currently illustrated in Window portion is the address http www.frsf.com the exemplary address of the exemplary SF search application occupying window portion .

Window portion provides an area for the user to enter search keywords to direct SF to find information containing the designated search keywords. In the interest of simplifying the present disclosure and without diminishing the full understanding of the present invention search keyword area is shown as a single field. It is well known by those of ordinary skill in the art that advanced keyword search fields may be used wherein multiple search keywords and or search keyword fields may be used together with various logical operators such as AND OR NOT etc.

Window portion provides an area for the user to specify the symbolic name of an SFP. In one embodiment window portion initially displays the symbolic name of the SFP used in the previous search in another embodiment a default SFP is initially displayed. The user may click on the phrase click on or click is intended to also encompass any other means of computerized user selection techniques known or to become known by those with ordinary skill in the art down arrow to display a list of existing SFPs available for selection in window portion .

In a preferred embodiment the SFPs displayed in window portion include and . When is selected the SF search application displayed in window portion is directed to perform the requested search without the use of an SFP wherein non topical specifications are not utilized to rank the search results. When is selected the SF search application viewable in window portion is directed to initiate an SFP Wizard to assist the user in the generation of a new SFP. The initiation can be immediate or in an alternative embodiment the SFP Wizard can be launched upon depressing edit button or search button .

Window portion also includes the display of all user defined SFPs currently existing. In the present example SHOPWHOLESALE SHOPRETAIL RESEARCH REPAIR and JOHN represent the set of exemplary SFPs previously created by the searcher. The names of the SFPs may be chosen by the searcher to facilitate recalling the appropriate SFP for the search task at hand. For example the dentist briefly mentioned above may select RESEARCH when searching for web pages containing keywords root canal . By simply selecting RESEARCH the dentist is able to utilize a comprehensive specification of all non topical search characteristics previously constructed and proven useful for other research oriented search requests.

In another example our dentist may select JOHN as an appropriate SFP when searching for articles that may be useful for his pre teen son s homework assignment. In a simple and effortless way the searcher is able to specify comprehensive non topical search characteristics with a single click for any type of searching task. This is a very powerful SF feature that may significantly enhance the accuracy of a search task in a very efficient manner.

In a preferred embodiment by right clicking on a displayed SFP a menu is displayed not shown . One of the displayed menu options allows the user to specify that the particular right clicked SFP is to become the default SFP. An indicia is displayed next to the default SFP in window portion to communicate to the user which of the SFPs is the current default. In a preferred embodiment the default SFP is initially displayed in window area . In the present example an is used to designate the default and as can be observed in window portion RESEARCH is the selected default SFP. Accordingly RESEARCH is initially displayed in window portion . In a preferred embodiment and may also be selected by the user as default SFP values.

In various alternative embodiments an interface is provided not shown which allows a user to select a plurality of SFPs to be utilized with a single search request. For example utilizing this feature a searcher would be able to concurrently specify SHOPWHOLESALE and SHOPRETAIL for a single search of a hard to find item where simply finding the item was a higher priority than achieving a minimal cost transaction.

The user may optionally depress edit button whereupon the SFP Wizard is initiated. In a preferred embodiment no action is taken if edit button is depressed with displayed in window portion . If is displayed in window portion then the SFP Wizard is initiated in a form to accommodate the creation of a new SFP. If an existing SFP is specified in window portion then the SFP Wizard is initiated in a form to accommodate the editing of the existing specified SFP. The user may depress search button when she is ready to initiate the search task.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that is exemplary and that various other interfaces may be deployed to communicate search keywords and non topical search information to an SF.

Referring now to SFP Wizard window appears on the user display responsive to a user interaction with the SF application as discussed infra. Window portion identifies the window as an SFP Wizard. Window portion also comprises various window function icons such as minimize resize and close. Window portion comprises exemplary drop down menus that may optionally be defined for use with the SFP Wizard. Exemplary functions available from these menus include viewing or editing additional SFPs and displaying help text. Since windows based applications frequently offer various selectable functions from these menus and since their general use is well known by those of ordinary skill in the art no further details are presented in the present disclosure.

Window portion is the SFP Wizard dialog area where a user may define and or edit a selected SFP. Window portion facilitates user input for general orientation information as indicated by the current tab name of General . Window portion provides an area for the user to enter an SFP name or for the wizard to display an SFP name. If the user selected then window portion allows the user to assign a symbolic name to the accumulated set of SFP information that will be generated within the current wizard session. If the user selected an SFP name for viewing or editing then the selected SFP name is displayed by the wizard in window portion . Wizard window as an example shows window portion containing exemplary SFP name MEDICAL as a new SFP.

Window portion allows the user to optionally identify a user profile that may be used by the wizard to access relevant information for populating a subset of the characteristics for the present SFP. In one embodiment window portion may only be specified when the wizard is generating a new SFP. A user profile is one that was previously defined for an application other than an SF application but because of standardization e.g. XML tags relevant pieces of information are accessable by the wizard. Browse button may be clicked on by the user to open a dialog box not shown wherein the user may search her computer files for a suitable profile to be selected. In other various embodiments window portion does not exist.

Window portion provides an area for the user to enter the name of an SFP to be used as a model for populating the new SFP currently being defined. Wizard window as an example shows window portion containing exemplary SFP name RESEARCH to be used as a model from which information is used to populate the new MEDICAL SFP currently being defined. Window portion displays a down arrow icon signifying that the user may click on this icon to generate a drop down list not shown of all SFPs currently available for selection. As previously discussed repository of contains all currently defined SFPs available to the user.

Eventually when all intended non topical search characteristics are specified the user may click on OK button to finalize the current wizard generated SFP and save it in repository of . However the user may also discard all of the specifications made during the current wizard session by clicking on CANCEL button . Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that wizard window is exemplary and that other information of a general nature pertaining to creating an SFP could be included or substituted in wizard window .

Referring now to the user may click on tab to enter non topical search information pertaining to characteristics defining who the searcher is. Upon clicking tab exemplary wizard window is displayed. Window portion comprises a plurality of sets of mutually exclusive personal characteristics with associated radio buttons. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that radio buttons are commonly used to present a user with a plurality of choices where only one item from a list of items may be selected. The first set comprises Layperson and Professional . Layperson is shown as selected in the present example. If however a user was intending to define the SFP to be used in searching for a level of information deemed useful to a skilled professional then Professional may be selected and would likely be the better choice.

The next set of personal characteristics comprises Individual and Business . Individual is shown as selected in the present example. If however a user was searching for information as an employee or representative of a particular business then Business may be selected and would likely be the better choice.

The third set of exemplary personal characteristics comprises Child Pre teen Teen and Adult . Adult is shown as selected in the present example. If for example the user was pre teen then Pre teen may be selected to more accurately communicate the age group of the searcher to the SF.

In other various embodiments some or all of personal characteristics may utilize check boxes for their selection. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that check boxes are commonly used to select one or more characteristics from a set of characteristics. In this embodiment a user for example could select Layperson and Professional or she could also select both Teen and Pre teen .

Continuing with window portion comprises a language preference specification. English is shown as the preferred language in the present example. The user may click on down arrow to display a list not shown of language choices from which the user may select. Window portion comprises a user s profession. Carpenter is shown as the user s profession in the present example. The user may click on down arrow to display a list not shown of professions from which the user may select.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that wizard window is exemplary and that other information pertaining to personal characteristics relevant to creating an SFP could be included or substituted in wizard window . Furthermore those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that while the term searcher is frequently the user that is performing the search it is really referring to characteristics of the person for whom the search results are intended. Accordingly as an example a professional searcher would typically not describe her personal characteristics but rather the personal characteristics for the intended audience of the search results.

Referring now to the user may click on tab to enter non topical search information pertaining to the search objectives. Upon clicking tab exemplary wizard window is displayed. Window portion comprises a set of mutually exclusive search objectives with associated radio buttons. Set comprises Evaluate Repair Build Inquire and Shop as exemplary objectives that may be selected. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that set is exemplary and that any number of other search objectives may also be included.

If the user selects the radio button for Shop then window portion is activated wherein the user may optionally further specify the type of shopping. Initially in a preferred embodiment window portion may contain the type of shopping most recently specified. The user may also click on down arrow wherein a list not shown of available types of shopping is displayed for the user to select from. For example the list may comprise retail wholesale and auction.

In the present example Repair has been selected as the search objective. This specification informs SF that the user is specifically looking for information that will help her to perform a repair operation. As further explained infra this valuable information will be acted upon by SF to rank search results in accordance with the user s objective for finding the information.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that wizard window is exemplary and that other information pertaining to search objectives relevant to creating an SFP could be included or substituted in wizard window .

Referring now to the user may click on tab to enter non topical search information pertaining to where SF should search for information. Upon clicking tab exemplary wizard window is displayed. Window portion comprises search domain information wherein a user may direct SF to search only within the selected domains. Window portion in a preferred embodiment is presented in the form of check boxes . Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that check boxes allow a user to make a plurality of selections and is not limited to just zero or one selection. In the present example window portion shows .gov domain and .edu domain as the selected domains in which SF is directed to search. Other exemplary check box choices shown in window portion include .com and .org .

Window portion comprises information class choices. Exemplary choices of which none or any number may be selected by a user include web news magazine message boards and research papers .

Window portion comprises web page type choices. Exemplary choices of which none or any number may be selected by a user include wholesaler retailer manufacturer and school .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that is exemplary and that its purpose is to show a representative selection of choices offered to a user wishing to direct SF to various sources of information in performing a requested search operation. Accordingly other categories of information and numerous other choices within each category are anticipated by the present disclosure.

Referring now to the user may click on tab to enter search scheduling information directing SF in various aspects of search scheduling as further described infra. Upon clicking tab exemplary wizard window is displayed. Window portion comprises a drop down list of timing types that may be selected. Upon selecting down arrow list appears. In the present example list comprises the timing type choices of Immediate Future or Flex . In the present example the user has selected Future and accordingly the user s selection is displayed in window portion .

A selection of Immediate as a timing type directs SF to begin the search operation immediately. This is expected to be the most frequently used option and accordingly it is the default specification in a preferred embodiment. A selection of Flex as a timing type directs SF to begin the search operation at an off peak time determined by SF to be particularly beneficial with respect to efficient use of computing resources. Furthermore for a specification of Flex SF may break the search operation into various component sub searches wherein each sub search is scheduled in accordance with off peak times for the various servers involved with a particular sub search component.

When the user selects a timing type of Future Window portion is activated. In one embodiments window portion is activated in a dynamic way generated responsive to the user s selection of Future . In other various embodiments window portion is visually modified to reflect an inactive state and then responsive to a user s selection of Future it is displayed in a normal appearance to reflect an active state ready to receive additional user input.

Window portion comprises data entry windows for inputting search timing information. Window portion specifies a date on which a requested search operation will begin. Window portion specifies a start time for a requested search operation. Alternatively an elapsed time may be specified in lieu of an absolute date and time. An elapsed time reflects a specified period of time relative to the current date and time. Window portion specifies an elapsed time period in units of weeks. Window portion specifies an elapsed time in units of days. Window portion specifies an elapsed time in units of hours. An elapsed time may be specified in any units of time including the above time units or a combination thereof.

If the user selects Immediate from drop down list within window portion then window portion is not relevant. In one embodiment the user is inhibited from entering data in window portion when Immediate has been selected. In an alternative embodiment specifications within window portion are ignored when the user selects Immediate from drop down list . In a preferred embodiment if Future is selected from drop down list window portion may optionally be left empty wherein the SF may schedule the search operation at a time determined by SF to utilize computing resources in an efficient manner. In an alternative embodiment when Future is selected the SFP Wizard monitors the user s data entry and forces the user to make a specification as to when the search operation should be performed prior to exiting panel .

Window portion comprises a drop down list of search types that may be selected by the user. Upon selecting down arrow drop down list appears. In the present example drop down list comprises the choices of Discrete or Recurring . The user s selection is shown in window portion which in the present example is Discrete .

If the user selects Recurring from drop down list then an input area not shown is provided for the user to enter timing information to define the intervals between the recurring searches. This input area may be similar to window portion discussed supra or may take other forms.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that SFP Wizard window is exemplary in nature and that other types of search scheduling information may be included therein or included types may be excluded therefrom. For example in other embodiments calendars and clocks may be utilized wherein clicking on various dates and times provides a helpful and user friendly interface for data entry. Therefore these and numerous other types of user interfaces known now or to become known in the future are anticipated by the present disclosure.

Referring now to the user may click on tab to enter search delivery information directing SF in various aspects of search delivery as further described infra. Upon clicking tab exemplary wizard window is displayed. Window portion comprises information directing SF as to a designated destination address and designated form for delivering search results. Window portion may be utilized for designating a plurality of recipients and or destinations together with a corresponding designated form for each by utilizing NEXT button . Upon clicking NEXT button the currently displayed window portion is refreshed with a new empty window portion . Upon completing a currently displayed window portion NEXT button may once again be clicked on in accordance with the number of recipients and or destinations to be specified. PREV button facilitates returning to a previously designated recipient or destination.

More specifically window portion comprises window portions . Window portion provides for specifying a folder designated to receive a file containing the search results. An exemplary folder specification may look like C Search Medical wherein the search results are directed to be delivered to the folder named Medical residing in folder Search located on hard drive C . In one embodiment if folder Medical does not exist within folder Search then SF automatically creates folder Medical in existing folder Search . In similar fashion SF could also automatically create folder Search if it does not currently exist. In an alternative embodiment an error condition could be generated if a designated folder for receiving search results does not exist.

Window portion provides for specifying an email address designated to receive the search results. When an email address is specified SF prepares the search results as an email transmission to be delivered over a network to the designated email address. Window portion provides for specifying a fax number designating a particular fax machine for receiving search results. When a fax number is specified SF prepares the search results for a fax transmission over a telecommunications facility and or network.

Window portion provides for specifying a URL address designating a particular web page as the repository for search results. When a URL address is specified SF finds and modifies the specified web page with the current search results. In one embodiment tags such as XML tags are used within the web page associated with the specified URL to designate the receiving location within the page as well as other formatting options. In an alternative embodiment tags may be utilized to redirect the search results to a different repository such as an alternative web page or additional web page. In still other various embodiments default locations and forms are used by SF wherein various tags are not required.

Window portion provides for specifying a Program name to receive a data stream comprising search results. When a Program name is specified SF invokes the designated program and passes the search results data stream as input to the program. In one embodiment various program directories may be utilized by SF to determine the appropriate convention for passing the search result data stream. In other various embodiments a default convention may be utilized for passing the search result data stream wherein the identified program conforms to the default convention. In still other various embodiments window portion further specifies not shown how the search results data stream is to be passed to the designated program.

Window portion provides a radial button for indicating that the search results are to be displayed on the search requestor s computer display. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that this specification reflects how most search results are delivered in prior art search engines. When the current display is selected SF displays the search results in the requestor s computer display in a default format or in a format otherwise specified in window portion .

Window portion comprises specifications directing SF as to a designated form for delivery. More specifically exemplary window portion comprises check boxes together with menu selection and sub selection . Check box directs SF to display search results in a text only mode. Alternatively check box directs SF to display search results utilizing both text and thumbnails. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that thumbnails refers to a miniature image representative of the particular web pages included in the search results.

Check box directs SF to display search results wherein abbreviated descriptions of each result are utilized to maximize the number of results that may appear on a display concurrently. Alternatively check box directs SF to display search results wherein the focus is on a more complete description of each result without regard to minimizing the amount of space occupied on the display.

Menu choice may be selected to specify the number of entries to comprise a page of search results. Upon selecting menu choice a sub selection menu is displayed wherein a number may be chosen as the number of entries for each page. In the present example window portion displays three choices of 10 20 or 30 entries per page.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the components of window portion are exemplary and that numerous other specifications for a designated form to be associated with a recipient or destination may be considered for inclusion. For example window portion may be modified wherein a user can request search results in a designated form of PDF format Wordperfect format HTML format etc.

Upon completion of entering all applicable data associated with tabs and the user may select OK button to inform SF that data entry is complete for the current SFP being defined. Upon clicking OK button SF saves the currently defined SFP to repository of . Alternatively the user may choose to click on Cancel button wherein all entered data for the currently defined SFP is discarded and no updates are made to repository .

Referring now to relational database table illustrates an exemplary SFP wherein user data captured by the SFP Wizard is retained. In various embodiments the table name is the name or a derivative of the name of the SFP as specified during its creation or as later modified. Column comprises the categories of information collected corresponding to tabs and of . In the specific example of table just three of the five preferred embodiment categories are represented namely Searcher Objective and Domain .

Column comprises various sub categories for each primary category. For example table column subcategorizes SEARCHER into MODE LEVEL LANGUAGE and PROFESSION. Column refers to the information elements corresponding to the various categories and sub categories of column and column . Referring to in conjunction with it is apparent that the exemplary informational elements represented in the SFP Wizard graphical interface such as Layperson Professional Individual Business Adult English and Carpenter are accommodated in column of table .

Column represents the specified data values for each of the information elements of column . For example once again using it can be seen that the selection of the radial button associated with Layperson is captured in table by the specification of YES in the row SEARCHER MODE LAYPERSON YES . In like manner all of the selections made with the SFP Wizard graphical interface for tabs and are represented in exemplary relational table . Other information elements and data values associated with tabs and are not included in exemplary table in the interest of simplicity. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that table will expand as necessary to accommodate all categories sub categories information elements and data values specified by the user during an SFP Wizard session and will be in conformity with exemplary .

In a preferred embodiment SFM is accumulated for various units of information wherein SFM associated with a unit of information may be compared with SFP characteristics from a particular SFP in order to determine the degree of affinity between a unit of information containing a specified search keyword and a specified SFP.

In accordance with the present invention a number of different schemas may be deployed for accumulating SFM. In a preferred embodiment SFM may be accumulated by providing a method for a viewer of a unit of information to optionally provide an evaluation of the unit of information. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a viewer of information is not necessarily deploying an associated search process. For example a viewer may be one who is simply surfing the web and haphazardly stumbles across the information. Alternatively the viewer may have the address of the unit of information and utilizes the known address to cause the unit of information to be displayed.

Nevertheless a viewer of a unit of information is in a position to contribute to the accumulation of SFM that can subsequently be utilized by SF in an effective manner. Referring now to an example is shown to illustrate the accumulation of SFM from a viewer evaluation of a unit of information wherein the unit of information is a web page. Browser window is shown wherein an exemplary unit of information is available to a viewer within window portion . Window portion contains a URL address identifying the address of the contents displayed in window portion the contents are not shown. 

EVAL button may be optionally clicked on by the user whereupon pop up window appears. Window prompts a user to provide SFM for the unit of information displayed in window portion . The user may proceed to optionally enter responses to any or all of the prompts in window . The various user responses are transformed by the browser into SFM form and saved in repository of .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that is an exemplary embodiment applicable to web pages and the world wide web. The present invention is applicable to numerous other environments wherein the browser represented by browser window may be any application wherein a unit of information is being displayed. Furthermore EVAL button is also exemplary as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. Many other methods for triggering the creation of pop up window are known in the art or may become known and all such methods of triggering a dynamic window creation are anticipated by the present invention.

Window portion displays a title for window which in the present example is Evaluate This Page . Window portion contains various user prompts for evaluation information comprising window portions and . Window portion pertains to an evaluation of an appropriate audience for the web page currently displayed in window portion i.e. the web page associated with the URL address displayed in window portion . More specifically window portion comprises a series of exemplary check boxes . In the present example Layperson and Adult are checked by the user to indicate that in her opinion the displayed web page is most appropriate for an adult layperson. Alternatively check box Professional could be selected by a user in place of check box or in addition to check box in accordance with the user s opinions about the suitability of material for selected audiences.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other check boxes may be provided modified or eliminated from exemplary window portion . Continuing with window portion the viewer may communicate an opinion about the provider of the web page being viewed. More specifically window portion comprises a series of exemplary check boxes . In the present example Information Provider is checked by the viewer as the most likely provider of the displayed web page.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other check boxes may be provided modified or eliminated from exemplary window portion . Continuing with window portion the viewer may communicate an opinion about a likely use for the displayed web page. More specifically window portion comprises a series of exemplary check boxes . In the present example Repairing is checked by the viewer as a likely use for the displayed web page.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other check boxes may be provided modified or eliminated from exemplary window portion . Additionally other categories of check boxes may be provided to a viewer for selection not shown in accordance with the present invention. If more check boxes are defined that conveniently fit in pop up window a PREVIOUS button and NEXT button may be defined wherein additional pages of check boxes may be navigated by the user. Alternatively in various embodiments a scrolling function could be utilized to navigate through the defined set of check boxes.

When the viewer completes her evaluation of the web page displayed in window portion by selecting any of the applicable check boxes available in window portions and the viewer may then click on OK button to save the evaluation. Alternatively the viewer may click on CANCEL button to terminate the evaluation at any time wherein the information represented by the checked boxes is discarded. In various other embodiments window portions and may comprise radial buttons drop down lists data input fields check boxes or any combination thereof.

Furthermore window is provided as an exemplary evaluation opportunity wherein the viewer participates in the evaluation opportunity by providing evaluation information. Numerous other means for participating in an evaluation opportunity known or to become known at a future time are anticipated by the present invention. Exemplary other means include audio prompts voice recognition touch screens and the like.

Referring now to in combination with flow diagram illustrates the program flow for one aspect of SFM collection pertaining to a viewer s evaluation of a unit of information. In step a user interaction is detected in conjunction with displaying a unit of information. In step a test is made to determine if the user interaction was a request to evaluate the displayed unit of information. In the example corresponding to a request to evaluate is triggered by a user interaction with EVAL button e.g. clicking on button . 

If an evaluation request is not detected then in step another process associated with the user interaction is performed and control returns to step to process a subsequent user interaction. If an evaluation request is detected then control passes to step where an evaluation window is displayed to receive user input. In the example corresponding to the displayed evaluation window is pop up window .

Continuing with step a user interaction is detected in conjunction with the displayed evaluation window. In step a test is made to determine if the user interaction is the selection of the CANCEL function wherein the current evaluation process is discontinued and processing returns to step . If the user interaction is not for the CANCEL function control passes to step wherein a test is made to determine if the user interaction is the selection of the PREVIOUS function. The CANCEL function and PREVIOUS function correspond to CANCEL button and PREVIOUS button in the example of .

If the PREVIOUS function is selected then control returns to step where the evaluation window is re displayed with previously displayed evaluation information. If there is no previously displayed evaluation information then no processing occurs at step . If the PREVIOUS function was not selected then control passes to step wherein a test is made to determine if the user interaction is the selection of the NEXT function.

If the NEXT function is selected then control returns to step where the evaluation window is re displayed with the next to be displayed evaluation information. If the last of the evaluation information is currently displayed then no processing occurs at step . If the NEXT function was not selected then control passes to step wherein a test is made to determine if the user interaction is the selection of the OK function. The NEXT function and the OK function correspond to the NEXT button and the OK button in the example of .

If the OK function has been selected then control passes to step where all user input is transformed into SFM. The SFM is then saved in a repository such as repository of in step and associated with the unit of information corresponding to the user s evaluation request. In various embodiments the transformation of user input into SFM is accomplished by calculating a relative strength percentage for those SFP characteristics receiving a positive indication within the user s evaluation. For example a counter representing the total number of evaluations performed for a unit of information is maintained along with a second counter representing the number of evaluations indicating positive support for a particular SFP characteristic within the unit of information. The relative strength percentage for the SFP characteristic is computed by dividing the second counter number of positive evaluations by the first counter total number of evaluations performed. 

In various embodiments locking protocols known to those of ordinary skill in the art are utilized to ensure the integrity of SFM in environments supporting concurrent evaluations of a given unit of information. Control then returns to step . Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that SFM may be represented by numerous different forms. Exemplary forms utilizing counters for SFM are further explained infra.

Returning now to step if the OK function is not selected then the user interaction must be for evaluation input and accordingly control passes to step to process the user interaction. In the example associated with a user interaction representing evaluation input comprises the selection of a check box from window portions or whereupon a check is displayed in the associated box as visual feedback to the user. Upon completing the processing associated with the user s evaluation input control returns to step where a subsequent user interaction may be processed.

In various embodiments SFM may also be accumulated by receiving information directly from the developer or owner of a unit of information. In a preferred embodiment direct input from the owner or developer of a unit of information may be used in combination with evaluation SFM described supra.

In various embodiments tags e.g. HTML tags or XML tags are standardized to define certain predefined SFM. In this way a website developer for example may specify various search framework characteristics of a web page. This tag may be a hierarchical specification such that a search framework tag deployed at the homepage level automatically propagates to each page within the website. In a preferred embodiment such hierarchical propagation may be overridden by a specific tag specification for specific web pages within the website hierarchy.

Alternatively the hierarchical propagation may occur from any designated web page from within the website wherein each web page lower in the website hierarchy automatically receives the tag unless it is explicitly overridden by a tag definition. In various embodiments search framework tags may only be specified at the homepage level. In a preferred embodiment the tag is self defining as to whether or not it is a hierarchical tag.

For example a standardized tag may take the form of wherein a web page developer may insert the text shopretail 90 producteval 60 to communicate to an interested search facility utilizing standardized tags and keywords that the intended primary use of the web page was for retail shopping and for product evaluation. Further specified in this example is an indication of relative strength percentages for each keyword. In like manner numerous other standardized search framework tags may be defined to include some or all of the exemplary characteristics previously disclosed in conjunction with or any other characteristics deemed to be useful to an SF search facility.

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates an exemplary program flow for one aspect of SFM collection pertaining to receiving information directly from a developer or owner of a unit of information. In step a web crawler process begins. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that in various embodiments a web crawler process may run continuously as a background computing task. In step a website is selected from which to access information associated with search framework tags. Continuing with step a first or next web page from the website is selected. Then in step the selected web page is scanned. A test is made in step to determine if a search framework tag was found in the web page.

If a search framework tag was not found then control passes to step where a further test is made to determine if more web pages need to be scanned for search framework tags. Otherwise a search framework tag was found and control passes to step to capture SFM associated with the found SFM tags. The term capture as used herein means to extract copy or otherwise gain access to the SFM associated with the found tag. Then in step a test is made to determine if the search framework tag is hierarchical. If so then in step the associated SFM is associated with the current web page and all child web pages void of explicit conflicting tags within the current domain. Control then passes to step to scan for additional search framework tags.

Returning now to step if the found tag is not hierarchical then in step the SFM from step is associated with the current web page. Control then passes to step to scan for additional search framework tags. In various embodiments the SFM is saved in a repository such as repository of . In a preferred embodiment the saved SFM comprises a relative strength percentage for each located search framework tag.

In various embodiments SFM may also be accumulated by utilizing heuristic means. In a preferred embodiment heuristically accumulated SFM is used in combination with evaluation SFM from a reviewer and SFM explicitly defined by a developer or web page owner. In other various embodiments any combination of SFM classes i.e. reviewer developer owner explicit and heuristic may be accumulated and utilized by SF in processing a search request.

In obtaining SFM heuristically the SFM is inferred from patterns related to the usage of returned search results. This is accomplished by establishing new communications between a browser and search facility. In this way various patterns or thresholds can be used to infer a correlation between SFP characteristics used to obtain the returned final result set and a particular accessed web page. For example the browser may send a time stamped event record to SF identifying a particular web page that is being displayed to a user based upon the user s interaction with a returned final result set. A second time stamped event record is sent to SF by the browser when the user returns to the final result set. If the elapsed time exceeds a predefined threshold then SF may conclude a positive correlation between the web page selected from the final result set for viewing and the SFP characteristics utilized in performing the search that produced the final result set.

Each time a web page is accessed from a final result set a counter associated with the web page is incremented by 1. Further if the web page is also sticky i.e. the time stamps indicated a user review duration in excess of a predetermined threshold then a counter associated with each SFP characteristic used to include the web page in the final result set is incremented by 1.

For example if a web page is accessed ten times and is found to be sticky six times with respect to a particular SFP then the associated SFP characteristics have a relative strength of 60 . It will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that with a web page being included in numerous final result sets utilizing numerous different SFPs that each standardized SFP characteristic will over time accumulate its own unique relative strength ratio with respect to a given web page.

In various other embodiments in addition to usage patterns or in lieu of usage patterns a SFM webcrawler component may be utilized to analyze web page content. The presence of various elements or combinations of elements may allow the SFM webcrawler to infer that some or all standardized SFP characteristics are likely present in a selected web page. In a preferred embodiment SFM representing standardized SFP characteristics are represented as relative strength ratios in accordance with various algorithms used to detect the strength of the presence of SFP characteristics. In various other embodiments a threshold may be deployed wherein a particular characteristic is deemed to be either present or not present.

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates an exemplary program flow for one aspect of SFM collection pertaining to heuristic derivation from observed usage patterns of units of information accessed from a final result list. More specifically illustrates an exemplary program flow within the context of the Internet.

In step a web page is accessed from a final result set. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that this is typically accomplished by clicking on a hypertext link included within the final result set and associated with the web page to be accessed. In step responsive to the user s clicking on the hypertext link a web page access event is generated. The web page access event identifies the web page being accessed together with a corresponding time stamp identifying the time of access. A listening routine not shown receives the event and saves the web page address and timestamp for use at a later time.

Continuing now with step the user initiating access to the web page from the final result set reviews this page and or other pages within the domain for a period of time acquiring information of interest relevant to her search and or further evaluating the potential usefulness of the information. Upon completion of this user review activity the user requests typically through the browser BACK button in step to return to the final result set. Responsive to this request a web page exit event is generated in step . The web page exit event comprises the web page address and a time stamp identifying the time of exit. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that use of events is an exemplary approach to recording the times of access exit to a web page and that numerous other techniques known in the art may also be deployed to accomplish this purpose.

In step a web page access counter associated with the just reviewed web page is retrieved. In various embodiments a web page access counter is maintained in repository of . If this is the very first time a web page is accessed then the processing of step includes creating the counter and initializing the value to zero. Continuing with step the retrieved web page access counter is incremented by 1 in order to reflect the current access. Then in step a web page review time is calculated by subtracting the timestamp calculated in step from the timestamp created in step .

In step the calculated web page review time is compared to a predetermined threshold value. If the calculated review time is equal to or greater than this predetermined threshold value i.e. the threshold is achieved then control passes to step where the subsequent processing is further explained infra in conjunction with . Otherwise control passes to step where the previously incremented web page access counter is saved for future calculations. In various embodiments locking protocols known to those of ordinary skill in the art are utilized to ensure the integrity of SFM counters in environments supporting concurrent access by multiple users to a given unit of information. Processing then continues with step where a test is made to determine if additional web pages remain in the final result set that have not yet been accessed by the user. If so processing returns to step discussed supra. Otherwise processing concludes at step by exiting the heuristic SFM collection process.

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates a continuation of the exemplary program flow for one aspect of heuristic SFM collection. The processing associated with is responsive to detecting a user review time equal to or greater than a predetermined threshold value. This logic corresponds to the heuristic concept that if a user accesses a web page and immediately returns to the final result set for another selection then most likely this particular result was not closely aligned with the searcher s criteria as reflected within the SFP utilized to produce the results. To the contrary if the searcher spends an extended period of time a reasonable conclusion follows that there is a close alignment between the user s SFP criteria and this particular result.

More specifically in step control is received from step of . Then in step the SFM counters associated with the reviewed web page are retrieved. In various embodiments the SFM counters are maintained in repository of . If this is the first request to retrieve SFM counters for the reviewed web page then the counters are created for each SFP characteristic of the associated SFP and each counter is initialized to a value of zero.

In step an unprocessed SFM counter is selected wherein the SFM counter is also associated with an SFP characteristic present within the SFP that was utilized to produce the final result set from which the reviewed web page was accessed. Continuing with step the selected counter is incremented by one. In step a relative strength calculation is performed. In various embodiments the relative strength of an SFP characteristic present for a web page is calculated by dividing the associated SFP characteristic SFM counter by the web page access counter which was calculated in step of . 

In step the incremented selected counter and calculated relative strength value for the selected SFP characteristic is saved. In various embodiments the relative strength value is associated with the reviewed web page and saved in repository of . In various embodiments locking protocols known to those of ordinary skill in the art are utilized to ensure the integrity of SFM counters and relative strength values in environments supporting concurrent access by multiple users to a given unit of information. Those of ordinary skill in the art will further appreciate that the relative strength may also be calculated each time it is needed as an alternative to saving the value in repository . In other various environments the relative strength value is defined as saved SFM. A test is then made in step to determine if more counters remain unprocessed wherein the one or more remaining counters are for SFM representing SFP characteristics for the SFP utilized to generate the final result set. If so processing returns to step discussed supra. Otherwise in step processing returns to step of .

A weighting may be assigned to each class of SFM e.g. direct developer supplied SFM evaluation accumulated SFM and heuristically accumulated SFM wherein an overall composite relative strength may be calculated for each SFM characteristic associated with a unit of information. For example in various embodiments direct developer supplied SFM may receive a weighting of 50 evaluation accumulated SFM receives a weighting of 30 and heuristically accumulated SFM receives a weighting of 10 . An overall composite relative strength percentage is then easily calculated by multiplying the relative strength value for each class by its corresponding class weighting and then summing the multiplication results. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various algorithms or processes may be utilized to calculate an overall relative strength from component relative strength values. It will be further appreciated that the exemplary weightings defined supra are arbitrary and that experience and or changing conditions will result in alternative weightings being defined.

Referring now to an exemplary relational database table is illustrated wherein accumulated SFM reflecting composite relative strength values reflecting all SFM collection means are retained for use by SF in forming final result sets. In various embodiments the name of the table is the name or address or derivative thereof of the unit of information to which the SFM corresponds. In various embodiments table is created or updated from other stored SFM discussed supra prior to each use. In other various embodiments table is periodically created or updated as triggered by time based or activity based algorithms.

Column comprises the categories of SFM collected which generally corresponds to the categories of information that are eligible to be specified within an SFP. This correspondence is key in enabling a means for determining the degree of affinity between an SFP specification and the SFM associated with each unit of information. In the specific example of table column comprises categories SEARCHER OBJECTIVE and DOMAIN . These correspond to the SFP categories designated by tabs and of as well as the categories designated in exemplary table .

Column comprises various sub categories for each primary category which also correspond to the sub categories of information that can be specified within an SFP. For example table column subcategorizes SEARCHER into MODE LEVEL LANGUAGE and PROFESSION. These correspond to the SFP sub categories designated in column of exemplary SFP table .

Column refers to the information elements corresponding to the various categories and sub categories of columns and column . Note the correlation of information elements of column table representing an exemplary SFP to column table representing SFM for an exemplary unit of information. This correlation is key in enabling a means for determining the degree of affinity between an SFP specification and a unit of information as further described infra.

Column illustrates an exemplary composite relative strength value for each corresponding information element from column . A quick scan of column reveals that an SFP specifying that the searcher was a professional carpenter searching for particular keywords with an objective of performing a repair operation would have a very high degree of affinity to the exemplary unit of information corresponding to table .

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that table and table are exemplary and numerous other data structures may be deployed in implementing the enhanced searching features described in the present application. Relational tables with more or less columns or more or less rows may be utilized. Alternatively hierarchical data structures trees lists linked lists hash tables indexed data structures and the like or combinations thereof may also be used.

In a preferred embodiment an SFP contains an embedded appended or associated private area hereinafter referred to as the SFP private area . Information of a statistical nature may be retained and or accumulated in the SFP private area that facilitates communication between SF and various search engines eligible for deployment by SF as well as communication directly between these SF deployable search engines.

For example relative strength statistics may be maintained for each search engine within the SFP private area. In various embodiments a search engine relative strength percent may be calculated for example by computing the percentage of the top 20 entries in the final result set that was returned by a particular search engine. Since a plurality of search engines may return the same result the total percentage of all search engines with respect to a given SFP may be higher than 100 percent.

Referring now to relational database table illustrates an exemplary SFP private area wherein search engine statistics are maintained. Column displays the list of Eligible search engines namely Search Engine Search Engine Search Engine and Search Engine N. Columns through represent the relative strength statistics associated with the most recent 8 searches performed in accordance with the associated SFP. Within exemplary table exemplary relative strength values are provided for Search Engine Search Engine Search Engine and Search Engine N. Column displays the average relative strength statistic for each search engine wherein the values in columns through are summed and then divided by 8 to calculate the average relative strength value for the previous 8 most recent searches.

Casual observation of exemplary table shows that with respect to the associated SFP Search Engine is the star performer with very strong results of 79 . Additionally Search Engine has seen moderate results of 34 and Search Engine having a relatively smaller amount of success with 14 . Search Engine N in the present example on average is contributing only 2 to the final result set for the associated SFP. In various embodiments SF may choose to eliminate Search Engine N from future searches for the associated SFP based upon its marginal additional value in comparison to the computing resources required to continue its inclusion in the eligible set of search engines.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that an almost unlimited number of variations may be used in determining a relative strength percent. For example the top 20 may alternatively be all results in the final result set or any number between 1 and the number of entries in the final result set. Furthermore the relative strength may be calculated as a rolling average where as in the example associated with only the current search and the most recent previous 7 searches are used. In various other embodiments a combination of the above approaches is used wherein consideration is given to both the contribution to the total final result set and the contribution to the top portion of the result set. Whatever the specific technique used the calculation is based upon the contributions of a particular search engine in making up the final result set and a higher percentage is indicative of a more successful search engine for a given SFP than a search engine with a lower percentage value.

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates an exemplary program flow for calculating a relative strength percent for one or more search engines associated with a search request. In step a first or next search engine is selected from those search engines recorded within the SFP private area. If the selected search engine was used in a just completed search request performed by SF then control passes to step . Otherwise control passes to step where a test is made to determine if more search engines are available for selection from within the SFP private area. If so control returns to step otherwise the process exits at step .

Returning now to step which received control as a result of the test at step a percentage contribution value is calculated representing the number of search results found by this search engine with respect to all search results included within the final result set. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous variations may occur in making this calculation. For example the calculation may be limited to the top 20 search results rather than basing the calculation on all search results included within the final result set. However since the calculated value is used in a comparative way with respect to other search engines numerous variations in the calculation are acceptable as long as all calculations are performed in a consistent way for each search engine.

In step this contribution percentage is averaged with previous results recorded for this search engine. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous implementations may be developed to calculate an average percentage. For example the SFP private area may include an array of 8 contribution percentages for each search engine wherein the oldest calculated value is displaced with the most recently calculated contribution percentage. The 8 values may then be averaged and further saved in the SFP private area or alternatively the average may be calculated whenever it is needed.

Continuing with step in accordance with the averaging method selected the calculated values are recorded within the SFP private area for the currently processed search engine. Control then passes to step discussed supra.

In various embodiments SF may query the search engine performance statistics by viewing data stored within the SFP private area. In accordance with these statistics SF may determine that one or more search engines are to be excluded from use with respect to a search request utilizing a particular SFP. Statistical information within the SFP private area may also be useful to a search engine. In various embodiments the information within the SFP private area may be obtained by invoking an SFP API application programming interface . Alternatively the SFP private area may be accessed directly by the search engine.

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates an exemplary program flow for scheduling a search request. In step a meta search facility or search engine receives search scheduling information pertaining to the scheduling of a search request. In various embodiments search scheduling information is accessed from an SFP associated with a search request. As explained supra in conjunction with a user may use an SFP Wizard to enter search scheduling information for an SFP wherein the scheduling information is utilized each time the SFP is referenced in a search request. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other facilities may be defined for capturing and maintaining scheduling information for subsequent use with a search request.

Utilizing the retrieved search scheduling information in step a test is made to determine if a requested search is to be immediately performed. If so in step the search is performed. Otherwise control passes to step where an additional test is made to determine the requested search is to be delayed. If the requested search is to be delayed in step a search event for the corresponding search request is scheduled for a later time in accordance with the user supplied scheduling information. In a preferred embodiment this scheduling is accomplished by adding the search event as an entry to a scheduling event table to be utilized by a search event task scheduler. An indication that a search has been successfully scheduled is returned to the user.

This entry comprises a complete description of the search to be performed together with a clock value representing the exact date and time that the search should be performed. In various embodiments in lieu of actual scheduling information the entry may comprise pointers or other reference data allowing access to some or all of the needed scheduling information external to the scheduling event table. In other various embodiments the table may be sorted or otherwise maintained in clock order wherein a search event task scheduler need not continue checking entries in the table once a sequentially accessed entry is encountered with a clock value that exceeds the current clock value. Additional detail on search event scheduling is described infra in conjunction with flow diagram of .

Returning now to step if the requested search is not delayed then control passes to step to test for a recurring search. If it is a recurring search then in step an additional test is made to determine if the recurring search has a delayed start. If the initial search is not delayed then the initial search is performed in step followed by the scheduling of a future search event for the next search instance in step in accordance with the user supplied scheduling interval information. If the initial search is to be delayed then control passes directly to step to schedule a search event for the initial search. In a preferred embodiment an indication that a search has been successfully scheduled is returned to the user.

Returning now to step if it is not a recurring search then control passes to step where a test is made to determine if this is a flex search. As discussed supra a flex search requests that the search be performed in accordance with a timing that will utilize computing resources in the most efficient manner. If the search is a flex search then in step computing resources are analyzed to make a determination for an optimal time to perform the search request.

In various embodiments additional specification may also be included by a user to request that computing resources be optimized within the constraints of a search completion deadline. Upon completing the analysis of step control passes to step together with scheduling information derived from user input and an analysis of computing resources wherein a search event is scheduled in accordance with this passed information. In a preferred embodiment an indication that a search has been successfully scheduled is returned to the user. Returning now to step if it is not a flex search request then an error is generated at step .

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates an exemplary program flow for processing search events created at step of . In step a search event task scheduler is periodically awakened. The search event task scheduler in step retrieves the current system clock value. Then in step the first or next event from a scheduling event table is checked to determine if this search event is now ready to be activated this is the case if the current system clock value retrieved in step is equal to or greater than the scheduled clock time stored in the scheduling event table for this event. If so in step the search associated with the search event entry is performed. Next in step a test is made to determine if the search just performed is a recurring type search. If so a new search event is scheduled as described infra in conjunction with flow diagram in step before continuing with step . Otherwise processing continues directly with step wherein scheduling step is bypassed.

Returning now to step if the search event is not ready to be activated processing continues with step where a test is made to determine if there are more search event entries in the scheduling event table that need to be checked. If so processing returns to step described supra. Otherwise processing returns to step to await the next search event ask scheduler activation cycle.

In a preferred embodiment the current clock value is retrieved once for a given wake up of the search event task scheduler and everything that is ready to be scheduled in accordance with that clock value is scheduled. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that a new current clock value may be retrieved for each check made in step . In various embodiments this may be implemented by passing control from step to step if there are more events to check.

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates an exemplary program flow for delivering search results in accordance with delivery options specified by the user. In step the final result set is obtained in accordance with a user s search request. In step the meta search facility or search engine receives search delivery input. In various embodiments this search delivery input specification is accessed from an SFP associated with the search request. As explained supra in conjunction with a user may use an SFP Wizard to enter delivery specifications in an SFP. The delivery specifications in an SFP are utilized to deliver the search results from a search request referencing the SFP. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that numerous other facilities may be defined for capturing and maintaining delivery specifications from a user for subsequent use with a search request.

In step a test is made to determine if delivery input exists. If not the search results are displayed in conventional way which for most search engines and meta search facilities typically means displaying the search results on the user s display from which the search request was made. Processing then concludes at step . Otherwise processing proceeds to step wherein the first or next recipient destination designated in the delivery specification is selected. Next in step the address of the recipient destination and delivery form is passed to a search result router component to effect delivery. As previously discussed in conjunction with the type of delivery may take on numerous different forms such as a fax machine another computer program an email a URL a display or a folder. Those of ordinary skill in the art appreciate that these forms are well known generally in the art and accordingly the various communication protocols used in conjunction with these forms are not included within the present disclosure.

In step a test is made to determine if more recipients have been included in the delivery specification that have not yet been forwarded to the search result router component. If so processing returns to step discussed supra. Otherwise processing concludes at step .

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates an exemplary program flow for generating an accumulated result set. Each entity contained within an accumulated result set comprises an identifier corresponding to a unit of information to be included in a search result. The identifier such as a URL address identifies and facilitates access to the corresponding unit of information. In addition to the identifier other information may be included such as a brief description of the unit of information.

In step SF receives a search request from a user. Control then passes to step where a test is made to determine if an SFP is associated with the user s search request. If not control passes to step where a conventional search is performed in accordance with the search keyword specification supplied by the user prior to terminating at step . A conventional search is used herein to mean a search performed without the benefit of non topical search specifications.

Returning now to step if an SFP was specified by the user as part of the search request then processing continues with step . In step the first or next search engine is selected for deployment by SF. In various embodiments the SFP is utilized to select a subset of eligible search engines available to SF based upon relative strength statistics recorded therein. In other various embodiments a set of eligible search engines is predetermined or selected by other means known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Continuing with step the selected search engine is invoked by SF on behalf of the user to obtain search results in accordance with the user s keyword specification. In various embodiments SF retains knowledge of the features and capabilities of the selected search engines. For example a selected search engine may support various non topical specifications such as domain specifications. SF may enhance the overall efficiency of the search operations by passing through various SFP specifications to the selected search engine upon invocation.

Then in step the search results returned from the search engine invocation are added to the accumulated result set. In various other embodiments all of the eligible search engines are deployed utilizing separate computing tasks such that multiple search engines may operate concurrently for enhanced performance in comparison to a serial deployment. In still other various embodiments the ranking performed by the individual search engines is retained within the accumulated result set. In this way SF may at least partially rely upon the rankings of the search engines in the event of little or no SFM.

In step a test is made to determine if additional search engines need to be deployed. If so control passes to step discussed supra. Otherwise processing terminates at step .

Referring now to flow diagram illustrates an exemplary program flow for transforming an accumulated result set into a final result set. In step a first or next unit of information is selected from the accumulated result set. Then in step SFM associated with this unit of information if any is retrieved from the SFM repository.

Continuing with step a first or next SFP characteristic is selected from the SFP. Then in step the composite relative strength value for the selected SFP characteristic is retrieved from the SFM if any for the selected unit of information. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the relative strength value may have been pre computed and stored with the SFM. In other various embodiments a relative strength value is calculated from other stored SFM if any each time it is needed. In still other various environments a relative strength value is the saved SFM. Those of ordinary skill in the art will further appreciate that the composite relative strength value is computed as one means of determining the degree of affinity between a unit of information and a specified SFP.

In step a test is made to determine if more SFP characteristics remain unprocessed within the SFP. If so processing returns to step discussed supra. Otherwise processing continues with step . In step a unit level composite relative strength value is calculated for the unit of information based upon a consideration of all of the individual composite relative strength values accumulated for each SFP characteristic. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that an almost unlimited number of techniques and methods may be deployed in determining a unit level composite relative strength value for a unit of information.

For example in various embodiments a simple average may be computed based upon the individual relative strength values for each SFP characteristic. In other various embodiments a minimum threshold value must be attained for all SFP characteristics within the SFP in order to compute a simple average. If a minimum threshold is not achieved for each SFP characteristic then other computations are deployed to arrive at a reduced relative strength value relative to a simple average. On a conceptual basis such an alternative computation acknowledges that a search result with a high relative strength value may have little usefulness to a user if even one SFP characteristic is below a threshold relative strength value. Exemplary calculations include capping the average relative strength value if one or more thresholds fail to hold.

While the specific computations for calculating a unit level composite relative strength value are subjective and may vary in accordance with the views and skills of a particular computer programmer the objective of the calculation is well defined. That objective is to generate a relative strength value for the unit of information that in consideration of all non topical specifications within the SFP approximates the overall correlation of the unit of information to the SFP.

Continuing now with step a test is made to determine if there are additional units of information within the accumulated result to be processed. If so processing returns to step discussed supra. Otherwise processing continues with step . In step the accumulated result set is ranked in accordance with the unit level composite relative strength value previously calculated for each unit of information in step supra. This ranking operation transforms the accumulated result set into a final result set to be delivered responsive to the user s search request. In various alternative embodiments low ranking results may be further pruned from the final result set prior to delivery.

Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various units of information may be associated with an SFM of questionable credibility. This may occur for example if very few evaluations have been performed in conjunction with an absence of direct developer input. As more and more evaluations or heuristic derivations occur the consensus SFM increases in credibility and may be relied upon for ranking purposes. In those cases where there is insufficient SFM credibility or no SFM at all for a unit of information the ranking process may be at least partially based upon the ranking of the various search engines utilized to perform the search operation.

Taken in combination flow diagrams through of respectively in conjunction with supporting diagrams and detailed descriptions provide for an improved searching technology wherein a user may receive search results with a higher degrees of relevancy obtained with significantly less effort and with added flexibility regarding schedule form and delivery options.

References in the claims to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described exemplary embodiment that are currently known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are intended to be encompassed by the present claims. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or step for. 

While the various embodiments of the present invention has been described in detail it will be understood that modification and adaptations to the embodiment s shown may occur to one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. Thus the scope of this invention is to be construed according to the appended claims and not just to the specific details disclosed in the exemplary embodiments.

