---

title: Synthetic vision runway corrective update system
abstract: A synthetic vision system (SVS) for an aircraft, including a user input device for receiving runway correction commands from a user. The runway correction commands are in response to discrepancies observed by the user between an observed runway position in the real world and a synthetic vision runway position depicted on an electronic display device. The user input device provides runway corrections. An SVS computer is operatively connected to the electronic display device for providing SVS image data to the electronic display device in response to received runway parameter data. A runway parameter server device (RPSD) is operatively connected to the user input device and to the SVS computer for receiving the runway corrections from the user input device and providing the runway parameter data, including any corrected data provided by the user, to the SVS computer. A runway parameter database is operatively connected to the RPSD for receiving correction data from the RPSD and providing corrected data to the RPSD. The user input device provides the capability of stewing the synthetic vision runway position to the observed real-world runway position when the synthetic vision runway position is observed to be misaligned, the corrected data being subsequently used to provide enhanced runway environment information for taxi operations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07924172&OS=07924172&RS=07924172
owner: Rockwell Collins, Inc.
number: 07924172
owner_city: Cedar Rapids
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070824
---
The present invention relates generally to avionics systems for aircraft and more particularly to a synthetic vision system SVS capability for slewing the synthetic vision runway position to the observed real world runway position when the synthetic vision runway position is observed to be misaligned.

Synthetic Vision Systems SVSs can provide pilots with early precise indications of runway positions especially origin and destination runways. SVSs are database derived applications which utilize terrain obstacle and runway data precise Global Positioning System GPS navigation and integrity monitoring sensors to provide unrestricted real time synthetic views of the external environment regardless of weather or time of day. These images may be presented on for example a primary flight display PFD or multifunction display MFD in either a head down display HDD or head up display HUD configuration.

SVS runway information presented to the flight crew is typically dependent upon a solution comparison between GPS aircraft position attitude and an independent database containing fixed runway parameters including for example latitudes longitudes elevations widths lengths and headings that describe the physical characteristics of runways around the world.

A problem exists in the case where the aircraft taxis onto the actual runway and lines up on the centerline only to find that the SVS runway depiction is displaced from real world centerline or heading due to parameters in the runway database that vary from the real world.

U.S. Pat. Publicn. No. 20070005199 entitled System and Method for Enhancing Computer Generated Images of Terrain On Aircraft Displays by G. He discloses a system and method for enhancing the visibility and ensuring the correctness of terrain and navigation information on aircraft displays such as for example continuous three dimensional perspective view aircraft displays conformal to the visual environment. More specifically an aircraft display system is disclosed that includes a processing unit a navigation system a database for storing high resolution terrain data a graphics display generator and a visual display. One or more independent higher precision databases with localized position data such as navigation data or position data is onboard. Also one or more onboard vision sensor systems associated with the navigation system provides real time spatial position data for display and one or more data links is available to receive precision spatial position data from ground based stations. Essentially before terrain and navigational objects e.g. runways are displayed a real time correction and augmentation of the terrain data is performed for those regions that are relevant and or critical to flight operations in order to ensure that the correct terrain data is displayed with the highest possible integrity. These corrections and augmentations performed are based upon higher precision but localized onboard data such as navigational object data sensor data or up linked data from ground stations. Whenever discrepancies exist terrain data having a lower integrity can be corrected in real time using data from a source having higher integrity data. A predictive data loading approach is used which substantially reduces computational workload and thus enables the processing unit to perform such augmentation and correction operations in real time. The 199 invention does not illustrate the use of a user input device for providing the capability of slewing the synthetic vision runway position to the observed real world runway position when the synthetic vision runway position is observed to be misaligned or corrected data being subsequently used to provide enhanced runway environment information for taxi operations.

In a broad aspect the present invention is a synthetic vision system SVS for an aircraft including a user input device for receiving runway correction commands from a user. The runway correction commands are in response to discrepancies observed by the user between an observed runway position in the real world and a synthetic vision runway position depicted on an electronic display device. The user input device provides runway corrections. An SVS computer is operatively connected to the electronic display device for providing SVS image data to the electronic display device in response to received runway parameter data. A runway parameter server device RPSD is operatively connected to the user input device and to the SVS computer for receiving the runway corrections from the user input device and providing the runway parameter data including any corrected data provided by the user to the SVS computer. A runway parameter database is operatively connected to the RPSD for receiving correction data from the RPSD and providing corrected data to the RPSD. The user input device provides the capability of slewing the synthetic vision runway position to the observed real world runway position when the synthetic vision runway position is observed to be misaligned the corrected data being subsequently used to provide enhanced runway environment information for taxi operations.

Unlike the system discussed above in U.S. Pat. Publicn. No. 20070005199 the present invention does not rely on additional databases or positional information vision sensors or other data which may be erroneous. Instead the present invention provides the ability for the flight crew to directly affect any necessary corrections to the synthetic vision runway position via the user input device.

Referring now to the drawings and the characters of reference marked thereon illustrates a synthetic vision system SVS for an aircraft in accordance with the principles of the present invention designated generally as . The SVS includes an electronic display device used by the pilot for viewing the SVS scene. The electronic display device may be for example a primary flight display a multifunction display a head down display HDD a head up display HUD or any other device suitable for presenting the SVS scene to the flight crew.

A user input device receives runway correction commands from a user pilot . The runway correction commands are in response to discrepancies observed by the user between an observed runway position in the real world and a synthetic vision runway position depicted on the electronic display device . The user input device may be a mechanical input device such as a joystick trackball mouse button switch touch screen knob lever slider keypad dial or other suitable input device. Alternatively it may be a suitable voice recognition device such as the type manufactured by Rockwell Collins Inc. or any number of commercially available systems such as that produced by IBM Corp. trademarked ViaVoice software DRAGON software by Nuance Communications Inc. KURZWEIL VOICE software and related products by Kurzweil Applied Intelligence Inc. and SAPI Speech Application Programming Interface speech services integrated in the Microsoft Windows operating system speech recognition software. The user input device provides runway corrections denoted by numeral designation .

An SVS computer is operatively connected to the electronic display device for providing SVS image data to the electronic display device in response to received runway parameter data from a runway parameter server device RPSD . The SVS computer may be for example a model SVS 6000 manufactured by Rockwell Collins Inc. or other suitable device.

The RPSD is operatively connected to the user input device and to the SVS computer for receiving the runway corrections from the user input device and providing the runway parameter data including any corrected data provided by the user to the SVS computer . The RPSD may be for example a file server such as an Integrated Flight Information System IFIS manufactured by Rockwell Collins Inc. flight management computer or other suitable device.

A runway parameter database is operatively connected to the RPSD for receiving correction data from the RPSD and providing corrected data to the RPSD. The runway parameter database may be for example a suitable ARINC database such as an ARINC Specification 424 ARINC 424 navigation system database or ARINC Specification 816 ARINC 816 airport mapping database AMDB .

The user input device provides the capability of slewing the synthetic vision runway position to the observed real world runway position when the synthetic vision runway position is observed to be misaligned. The corrected data is subsequently used to provide enhanced runway environment information for taxi operations.

In a preferred embodiment this slewed runway position would then be substituted by the RPSD within the runway parameter database and be usable from that time forward for that specific aircraft until another runway parameter database is released and loaded. This parameter substitution is then recorded within a maintenance log by a maintenance computer and becomes a record within that aircraft that the runway parameter was updated by the flight crew and thus should be investigated for its accuracy in the released database.

A maintenance computer is operatively connected to the RPSD for receiving the correction data from the RPSD and logging the correction data for subsequent use. The maintenance log is operatively connected to the maintenance computer for receiving the logged correction data. The maintenance log contains maintenance alerts or flags for aircraft maintenance action and is utilized by maintenance personnel for reporting and appropriate action. In this case the maintenance log may be utilized by maintenance personnel or other cognizant persons for database correction and subsequent release to field aircraft.

Other embodiments and configurations may be devised without departing from the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended claims.

