---

title: Enchanced interference cancellation and telemetry reception in multipath environments with a single paraboic dish antenna using a focal plane array
abstract: An Advanced Focal Plane Array (“AFPA”) for parabolic dish antennas that exploits spatial diversity to achieve better channel equalization performance in the presence of multipath (better than temporal equalization alone), and which is capable of receiving from two or more sources within a field-of-view in the presence of multipath. The AFPA uses a focal plane array of receiving elements plus a spatio-temporal filter that keeps information on the adaptive FIR filter weights, relative amplitudes and phases of the incoming signals, and which employs an Interference Cancelling Constant Modulus Algorithm (IC-CMA) that resolves multiple telemetry streams simultaneously from the respective aero-nautical platforms. This data is sent to an angle estimator to calculate the target's angular position, and then on to Kalman filters FOR smoothing and time series prediction. The resulting velocity and acceleration estimates from the time series data are sent to an antenna control unit (ACU) to be used for pointing control.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08022860&OS=08022860&RS=08022860
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08022860
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070720
---
The present application derives priority from U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 832 918 filed Jul. 24 2006.

The invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 945 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The invention relates to multi beam antenna systems and more particularly to a focal plane array FPA antenna system that includes a multi stage interference cancelling adaptive digital filter that allows reception of multiple telemetry streams simultaneously.

Improving the efficiency of aeronautical telemetry systems often entails dealing with an interference problem known as multipath. Multipath is created by telemetry reflections from various surface objects and it usually includes a strong ground bounce with complex amplitude and frequency characteristics. As the data rates used for aeronautical telemetry increase multipath interference is becoming increasingly frequency selective and significantly impairs reception. For example current United States Air Force USAF flight test telemetry ranges commonly suffer from time varying frequency selective multipath due to ground reflections of radio frequency RF telemetry signals.

For this reason various smart antenna systems have been developed to reduce multipath. Generally these smart systems employ multiple antennas in a phased array followed by some form of diversity processing to combine the multiple signals received into a more accurate whole. These smart systems employ two different combining schemes 1 diversity combining and 2 adaptive combining.

The diversity combining scheme exploits the spatial diversity among multiple antenna signals received. Diversity combining is illustrated in U.S. patent application No. 20020067311 by Wildey et al. published Jun. 6 2002 which shows a phased array antenna with a plurality of antenna elements. The beacon signal is passed to a beacon signal processor which determines the phase differences between the signals received at different antenna elements. The phase differences provides a measure of the physical displacement of the antenna elements from their nominal relative positions due to distortion of the antenna structure resulting from for example gravitational forces. The antenna system can further include means for generating a phase correction corresponding to the phase difference to alter the communication signal phasing and so compensate for distortion of the array structure. This essentially provides a self phasing phased array in which the radiation pattern automatically adjusts to compensate tor displacement of the antenna elements from their nominal positions relative to one another.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 680 419 to Bottomley Ericsson also suggests the elimination of the deleterious effects of fading time dispersion and interference by using interference rejection and diversity combining.

In contrast the adaptive combining scheme adjusts the antenna weights dynamically to enhance the desired signal while suppressing interference signals. Most adaptive combining techniques employed today use complex weights on each of the antenna receivers to reject interferences but in the presence of multiple paths of propagation. However they tend to aim in the direction of one of the paths thus losing the energy associated with the other paths.

Spatio temporal equalization S T Equalization which utilizes both spatial and temporal information of received signals has been drawing much attention as a technique to achieve better performance in antenna systems. By manipulating the specific phase and amplitude relationship of the signals received at the phased antenna array it is possible to correct various distortions such as reflector surface aberrations in satellite and other communications. This is achieved by controlling signal power division ratios spatial equalization and the phase shift temporal equalization in the path between the signal source and each antenna element. Spatial diversity equalizers use various algorithms. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 006 110 to G. G. Raleigh describes a time varying vector channel equalization approach for adaptive spatial equalization. Spatio temporal equalization S T Equalization can achieve significant enhancement in signal transmission performances over broadband mobile communication channels.

Traditional S T Equalization methods employ an adaptive antenna array which has temporal filter at each antenna element a broadband beam former or a complex decision feedback equalization scheme which requires a lengthy training sequence such as a maximum likelihood sequence estimation MLSE filter. Though S T Equalization methods can achieve good performance they are currently limited to the aperture plane of a conventional phased array antenna system.

Focal plane array antenna systems differ significantly from phased antenna arrays. Rather than using multiple antennas a focal plane array feed entails arranging multiple antenna elements within the focal plane of a single parabolic dish antenna in a specific geometry. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 320 553 patent to Ergene Harris shows a main parabolic reflector and an ellipsoidal subreflector with a transversely positioned feed and an axial feed located in the focal region of the main reflector. In this case the patent notes that mutual blockage can occur between several different feeds in the same antenna configuration and the two feeds are herein designed to receive and transmit signals in different frequency bands e.g. C KU and X bands from a single antenna dish system without blockage.

Though S T Equalization methods have used in to the aperture plane of a conventional phased array with multiple antennas they have not been widely applied to the local plane of a parabolic dish antenna. Nevertheless S T Equalization in focal plane array antennas can endow receivers with the immunity against co channel interference CCI and inter symbol interference ISI aiming at allowing all users to use the same frequency and time slots without spreading their signals in the frequency domain. See for example M. Rice and E. Satorius Equalization Techniques For Multipath Mitigation In Aeronautical Telemetry MILCOM 2004 Proceedings volume 1 pages 65 70 Oct Nov 2004 which proposed a single channel equalizer to improve the performance of telemetry reception systems. This reference discloses a single channel equalizer with spatial but not temporal processing.

The present inventors herein demonstrate that it is possible to extend the single channel equalization scheme in a focal plane array to multiple spatial channels in order to fully exploit spatial diversity thereby achieving further reductions in interference resulting in even more reliable telemetry reception. The invention described herein applies spatio temporal equalization techniques not to the aperture plane of a conventional phased array but instead to the focal plane of a single parabolic dish antenna it is possible to improve its performance under multipath conditions while maintaining high precision pointing capability. A focal plane tapped delay line approach is herein proposed that is fundamentally different from the phased array approaches described above since focal plane processing of multipath signals and other interfering sources can be separated out without complicated signal processing under favorable conditions . This is an added bonus of using focal plane arrays instead of conventional phased array antennas when appropriate. Moreover this approach makes it possible to provide a single antenna system capable or receiving telemetry from two or more sources within the field of view even in the presence of multipath. This capability promises significant value whenever it is desireable for one antenna to receive more than one stream simultaneously under many conditions such as in aeronautical activities where existing parabolic ground antennas could receive telemetry from formation flyers within the fields of view.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a spatio temporal equalizer for the focal plane of a parabolic dish antenna.

It is another object to provide a multi element focal plane array that gives spatial diversity reception and temporal channel equalization.

It is another object to provide a multi element feed in place of the traditional single element feed in the focal plane of the parabolic receiving antenna that gives spatial diversity reception and temporal channel equalization.

It is another object to exploit the above described spatial diversity reception for reception of multiple telemetry streams simultaneously thereby enabling a single parabolic dish antenna to receive telemetry from multiple sources within the field of view even in the presence of multipath.

According to the present invention the above described and other objects are accomplished by providing an Advanced Focal Plane Array AFPA comprising a radio frequency RF focal plane array of receiving elements an array of feeds in the focal plane of a parabolic dish antenna which allows the exploitation of spatial diversity to achieve better channel equalization performance in the presence of multipath than would be achievable with temporal equalization alone. The use of an array of receiving elements provides two advantages over a single one. First it enables constructive addition of the incoming multipath ray resulting in improved bit error rate BER performance under a range of operating conditions. Second the presence of multiple elements in the focal plane enables real time extraction of pointing information that can be used to identify both the main ray and the ground reflection ray. This enables robust pointing even when multipath is present. A spatio temporal filter keeps information on the adaptive FIR filter weights relative amplitudes and phases of the incoming signals. The spatio temporal filter may employ a range of adaptive algorithms including but not limited to Least Mean Squares LMS Recursive Least Squares RLS Sample Matrix Inverse SMI etc. The algorithm chosen for the present realization of this invention is an Interference Cancelling Constant Modulus Algorithm IC CMA that resolves multiple telemetry streams simultaneously from the respective aero nautical platforms. The IC CMA algorithm used in the present realization is described in the following reference Richard Gooch Brian Sublett and Robert Lonski. Adaptive beamformers in communications and direction finding systems. In volume 1 pages 11 15 Nov 1990 and it will be briefly described here since it is used in the present realization. Indeed a single parabolic dish antenna can receive telemetry from two or more sources within the field of view even in the presence of multipath. This data is sent to an angle estimator a unit that computes instantaneous estimates of the target s angular position with respect to the antenna s pointing axis. Possible angle estimators encompassed herein include but are not limited to the neural network and interpolated least squares estimators described in the following reference Mukai R. Vilnrotter V. A. Arabshahi P. Jamnejad V. Adaptive acquisition and tracking for deep space array feed antennas Vol. 13 No. 5 September 2002 where some or all of the weights of the spatio temporal filter may be applied as inputs to the methods described in the reference paper. Angle estimation methods using the estimated centroid based upon relative power measurements in the focal plane feeds or based upon the magnitudes of the weights in the spatio temporal filter are also included in this invention. The time series of these estimates is then sent to two 3 state Kalman filters which not only provide smoothing and time series prediction but which also extract velocity and acceleration estimates from the time series data. The outputs of the Kalman filters are sent to an antenna control unit ACU to be used for pointing control. The principal advantages of the AFPA are that it exploits spatial diversity to combat multipath which would otherwise result in increased bit error rates and reduced telemetry performance. It is also capable of receiving telemetry from two or more sources within the field of view even in the presence of multipath. Furthermore under most geometric conditions spatially separate sources have spatially separate images in the focal plane of the receiving antenna. Since the nature of radio frequency RF optics results in spatial separation of the sources in the focal plane under most geometric conditions the process of separating signals from different sources is simplified considerably and cross correlations between spatially separate sources may be either reduced or substantially eliminated by this spatial separation. This will considerably simplify signal processing by eliminating cross correlation interference under many conditions. Even when cross correlations are present due to incomplete spatial separation partial spatial separation will often greatly reduce the effects of cross correlation terms allowing for more robust separation of incoming signals than would be possible with a convention aperture plane phased array. This is another principal advantage of the present invention over existing phased array systems.

In addition to being useful for flight test telemetry this system is adaptable to radar applications as well as to other aeronautical communications applications including civilian air traffic.

The present invention is an Advanced Focal Plane Array AFPA antenna system comprising a multi element focal plane array having an array of feeds in the focal plane of a parabolic dish antenna plus a multi stage interference cancelling adaptive digital filter. The multi element array allows spatial diversity to achieve better channel equalization performance in the presence of multipath than would be achievable with temporal equalization alone. The multi stage adaptive digital filter capitalizes on this diversity to allow reception of multiple telemetry streams simultaneously thereby enabling a single parabolic dish antenna to receive telemetry front multiple sources within the field of view even in the presence of multipath.

A system block diagram of the AFPA system according to the present invention is shown in . The AFPA employs a radio frequency focal plane array FPA placed in the local plane of the receiving parabolic antenna . The RF focal plane array comprises a plurality of receiving elements horns . The telemetry received from the RF focal plane array is sent to a processing system that allows reception of multiple telemetry streams simultaneously here two originating directly from the respective aero nautical platforms J J. Processing system takes advantage of the spatial diversity of the multi element array to allow single parabolic dish antenna to receive telemetry from two or more sources within the field of view even in the presence of multipath. Processing system further includes a spatio temporal receiver filter connected to an angle pointing estimator in turn connected to Kalman Filter s . The spatio temporal receiver filter further includes a downconverter that serves as a receiver front end and spatio temporal FIR filter section .

In general operation the RF signals received by the AFPA are downconverted by spatio temporal receiver filter to complex baseband and spatio temporal FIR filter structures in receiver filter perform coherent combining. The FIR filter structures keep information on the adaptive FIR filter weights relative amplitudes and phases of the incoming signals. This information is sent to an angle pointing estimator which computes instantaneous estimates of the target s angular position with respect to the antenna s pointing axis and produces time series data. The time series estimates of the target s angular position with respect to the antenna s pointing axis are then sent to Filters . The Filters are preferably 3 state Kalman filters which not only provide smoothing and time series prediction but which also extract angular velocity and acceleration estimates from the time series data. The outputs of the Filters are sent to an antenna control unit ACU to be used for pointing control.

A particular embodiment of the multi element focal plane array will now be described that uses a seven element feed in place of the traditional single element feed in the focal plane of the parabolic receiving antenna. This exploits spatial diversity reception in addition to temporal channel equalization in combatting the effects of multipath.

FIG is a from view of an exemplary multi element focal plane array the illustrated embodiment containing seven elements or horns for reception in this case for 15 GHz Ku band signals. is a side perspective view. A variety of Ku band feed horns are commercially available for this purpose including AFC single element Ku band antenna feeds and others. The elements are preferably arranged in a hexagonal or nearly hexagonal geometry rather than a vertical stack. One skilled in the art should understand that two or more horns may suffice the horns may be adapted for other RF bands and a hexagonal geometry is but one presently preferred embodiment. In the seven element hexagonal array spatial multipath is typically compensated by the vertical stack of three horns but there are four additional horns on the sides. These are used to enable reliable pointing as disclosed in Mukai et al. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks 13 5 1159 1162 Sep 2002 and Vilnrotter et al. 70 15 TMO Progress Report 42 139 Nov 1999 .

The seven elements produce seven RF signals which are downconverted by spatio temporal receiver filter to complex baseband. The downconversion may be accomplished using a commercially available IF Downconverter . The downconverter may for example be an Avtec downconverter which transforms analog RF signals into an accessible digital format suitable for further processing. The Avtec unit is programmable configured and controlled by is USB connection to a computer.

The multiple receiving elements as described above provide three advantages over a single horn. First they enable constructive addition of the incoming multipath ray resulting in improved bit error rate BER performance under a range of operating conditions. Second the presence of multiple horns in the focal plane enables real time extraction of pointing information that can be used to identify both the main ray and the ground reflection ray as will be described. This enables robust pointing even when multipath is present. Third the use of a two dimensional array permits resolution of spatially separated signals provided there is sufficient angular separation among sources. This third advantage is an essential feature of the present invention because it allows a single parabolic dish antenna to receive telemetry from two or more sources within the field of view in the presence of multipath and yet distinguish all signal components.

Referring hack to to illustrate the advantages of the multi stage filter we suppose that the ground reflection or multipath rays have an amplitude 0.96 times that of the direct rays rays originating from the aeronautical platforms and reflection rays rays are 180 degrees out of phase with the direct rays . The case of a multipath ray that is exactly out of phase with the main rays represent a worst case channel equalization scenario and the focal plane is graphically illustrated in which is an example of such multipath for two sources J J. Image A is the main ray from the primary source J. Image B is the multipath ray from the primary source J. Image C is the main ray from at secondary source J that is at a higher altitude. Note that the higher altitude will result in a lower main ray image since the ray from a source at a higher altitude is reflected by the main reflector to a lower point on the focal plane array FPA . Since a prime focus system a radio frequency optical system with a single reflector is used in this case the image will be inverted. Since the angle of reflection with respect to the ground for this source is a steeper angle than for the primary source the secondary multipath ray due to ground reflection will also be higher and its image in the focal plane is denoted D .

J The number of sources. The algorithm is herein defined for a two source j1 j2 case though any number of sources is possible.

yj i k The signal from source j observed in FPA channel i. This is a delayed phase shifted and attenuated version of xj k which may also contain a multipath component depending on the geometric situation.

The key advantages of this invention can be illustrated via the following example where we assume idealized conditions for clarity. Suppose there are two sources such as airplanes within the receiving antenna s field of view FOV flying close to the ground at a great distance from the antenna thus producing multipath signals also assumed to be within the antenna s FOV. Here we denote the signals received directly from the two sources as s t s t and their respective multipath components as s t s t 0 1. Clearly the multipath components are attenuated and delayed versions of the directly received signals. If a single horn in the focal plane is used to communicate with the desired source without additional signal processing to recombine the direct and multipath signals from the desired source then this receiver observes the sum of the desired signal the interference signal and their respective multipath components all in the presence of additive noise. After sampling the received samples in the digital receiver are of the form s 

where n k are zero mean AWNG samples with variance . If the receiver is tuned to the first direct source signal then it own multipath plus the interfering signal and that signal s multipath serve as sources of noise along with the inevitable AWGN receiver noise. If both sources and their multipath components are independent and of equal strength i.e. the delays are sufficiently large so that there is no correlation between each signal and its delayed version then we have s 1 i 1 2 then the signal to interferer plus noise ratio for this case is 

On the other hand if we were able to separate out the sources and their multipath components via a focal plane array as proposed in this invention then the SINR to the array channel receiving the desired signal would become SINR E s k . This demonstrates the following it result for the assumed conditions 

In other words the upper bound for the SINR of the single horn receiver merely or 4 8 dB due to interference whereas the SINR of the FPA receiver is limited only by additive thermal noise. For the realistic case where the FPA receiver is operating at an SINR of 10 dB the SINR of the single horn receiver is merely 1 3.1 or 4.9 dB. The FPA receiver is better than the non processing single horn receiver by 14.9 dB which is a very significant margin.

Even if we assume perfect combining of the desired signal and its multipath component properly delayed and phased to add coherently and assuming all delayed versions to be independent of the desired signal a similar argument shows that the SINR of the processing single horn receiver becomes 4 6.1 0.656 or 1.8 dR which is still approximately 12 dB worse than the FPA receiver proposed in this invention.

Unfortunately the ideal conditions of perfect spatial separation described above cannot always be obtained in practice hence more complicated processing and somewhat reduced gain must be accepted. The following development addresses the general case where the above ideal model cannot be assumed.

In the basic CMA algorithm presented by Haykin supra the operation of the single source filter shown in would be described by the following equation 1 1 Furthermore the CMA weight updates would be given by the following equation 2 1 1 2 

However when multiple J sources are present the actual received signal vector at the array is given by the following equation 3 3 

Hence there is a need to use an adaptive interference cancellation scheme to help separate these sources. If the CMA algorithm were to be run on the array signal Y k it would tend to converge to the source with the highest received power under many conditions. However if the desired source and the interferer have the same received power then the basic CMA algorithm may exhibit only a 50 chance of acquiring the correct source. Hence equations 1 and 2 are an important part of IC CMA but they do not provide a complete picture. An interference cancellation step is the key. For this purpose we make the following assumptions 

1. Each signal has zero mean which is true of SOQPSK TG signals and of many other types of signals and interference. Hence E Y k 0 and E x k 0.

2. The transmitted signals are independent of each other. Independent zero mean transmitted signals must satisfy E xj1 n x j2 n 0 for all j1 j2.

3. As a result the received signals are also independent of each ether and will therefore satisfy E Y k Y k 0 for all for all j1 j2.

We now define X k Y k x k to be the instantaneous approximation to the cross correlation between signal x k and the received signal vector Y k The cross correlation is used to cancel the contribution of source j. Since we have assumed for each transmitted SOQPSK TG signal that x k 1 we now have x k x j k 1. This allows us to write Y k X k x k .

However we do not have x k at the receiver. Instead we have an estimate z k at the receiver. Furthermore we cannot compute the true expected value in equation 4 in the receiver instead we will replace x k with our best estimate which is z k . Again since all sources transmit a constant modulus SOQPSK TG signal each z k tends to correspond to a single source with all other sources suppressed. Furthermore we will replace the expected value with the instantaneous sample. The approximation that results is shown in equation 5 5 

Hence the contribution of source k to the total signal Y k in equation 3 can be estimated and subsequently subtracted from the array sum if X k and x k are known. In practice the approximation in equation 6 will be sufficiently accurate to remove most of the contribution of source j from the overall signal vector Y k . This lies at the heart of the improved IC CMA algorithm of the present invention.

Here Z k is the received vector signal with the contributions of the first j 1 sources subtracted out. By convention for the first source we have 

Since we only have the estimate zj k of the original signal xj k we could use the following approximation of equation 6 

However the approximation in equation 6 is not always reliable especially if there is a significant amount of noise present. Instead it is appropriate to replace the term Xi k with an interference cancellation weight term 

Equation 7 provides a real time adaptive method for estimating the necessary cross correlation for interference cancellation and Wis taken as an estimate of E Y k x k 

Using the above described definitions we can now describe the IC CMA algorithm of the present invention. To receive up to J signals the algorithm must contain J stages. Each stage is described by the following equations circumflex over Z 8 

Since the interference cancellation stage which is designed to remove the effects of previous signals works with approximate correlations there will be some residual portions of the interference signals left over even after adaptive cancellation. As a result BER performance will often be worse than in the pure non interference case.

In the interference cancellation case one may simply ignore the output signals z k that are believed to correspond to undesired interferers. It there is only one desired source and if the desired source has the highest received power then the CMA algorithm without the additional interference cancellation capability is often sufficient. However if the desired source has the same or less received power than the interfering source IC CMA provides a useful cancellation capability IC CMA is also useful in those cases in which telemetry from more than one source is desired.

Simulations have been performed to test the performance of IC CMA with two SOQPSK TG sources at equal received power. Since in the equal power case the first CMA stage may lock on to either source with equal likelihood IC CMA is useful either for cancelling a second source or for receiving its telemetry stream. Since SOQPSK TG is a constant envelope modulation a single stage of the IC CMA algorithm stages are defined later will tend to converge on just one of the multiple signals effectively cancelling the effects of the other signals. The basic CMA algorithm without interference cancellation would ordinarily have only a fifty percent probability of locking on to the primary desired source in this case.

The geometric situation involving two static sources is described as follows. All coordinates are Cartesian and are given in meters. The z coordinate is assumed to refer to altitude above the ground which is treated as a flat plane. Major simulation assumptions are described below.

1. The antenna is located at point 0 0 550 . That is the antenna is on a hill 550 meters above the origin of the coordinate system.

2. The first source is located at 30000 0 550 . This means the first source is 30 km away from the antenna along the x axis and is also 550 meters above the ground.

3. The second source is located at 30000 900 1150 . This means the second source is at an altitude of 1150 meters which is 600 meters higher than the first. It is also offset in the y direction by 900 meters.

6. We assume worst case multipath and have assigned the multipath ray an amplitude of 0.96 times that of the main ray and a phase of 180 degrees with respect to the main ray.

The resulting focal plane field is as shown in . Given that the focal plane array now sees signals from two sources rather than only one the basic CMA algorithm without interference cancellation would not be guaranteed to lock on to the desired source which is source 1. Furthermore if both telemetry streams are desired the use of two independent CMA based equalizers could result in both of them locking onto source 2 or both of them locking onto source 1. The IC CMA algorithm permits the system to lock onto both. The overall BER performance averaged over both sources is shown in .

In sum the use of an array of receiving elements provides two advantages over a single one. First it enables constructive addition of the incoming multipath ray resulting in improved bit error rate BER performance under a range of operating conditions. Second the presence of multiple elements in the focal plane enables real time extraction of pointing information that can be used to identify both the main ray and the ground reflection ray. This enables reliable real time pointing correction and target tracking even in the presence of multipath. It is important to distinguish the focal plane tapped delay line approach proposed above as fundamentally different horn the phased array approaches described in the background section since with the focal plane processing approach multipath signals and other interfering sources can be separated out without complicated signal processing under favorable conditions. This is an added bonus of using focal plane arrays instead of conventional phased array antennas.

Benefits other advantages and solutions to problems have been described herein with regard to specific embodiments. However the benefits advantages solutions to problems and any element s that may cause any benefit advantage or solution to occur or become more pronounced are not to be construed as critical required or essential features or elements of the invention. All structural chemical and functional equivalents to the elements of the above described exemplary embodiments that are known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the invention.

