---

title: Management of enterprise systems and applications using three-dimensional visualization technology
abstract: An approach that manages enterprise systems and applications using three-dimensional visualization technology is described. In one embodiment, a system for streaming visual representations of an enterprise in near-real time. A multitude of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters are each configured to obtain event data from hardware and software elements in the enterprise. A virtual command center is configured to receive the event data, aggregate the event data into a composite dataset representative of the current operation of the enterprise, compare the composite dataset to at least one three-dimensional model representative of the operation of the geographically distributed enterprise, and provide a visualization of the composite data and any difference that may exist. The visualization is a composite of a three-dimensional visual image of the current operation of the geographically distributed enterprise.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07839401&OS=07839401&RS=07839401
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07839401
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070510
---
This disclosure relates generally to enterprise systems and applications and more specifically to using three dimensional 3D visualization technology to provide an enterprise manager with streaming visual representations of aspects of an enterprise in near real time.

Currently an enterprise manager uses a large collection of disparate two dimensional 2D software tools such as web pages and client server applications depending on the middleware that has been deployed. These 2D software tools generally limit the amount of information available to enterprise managers and other personnel that will use the tools. In addition the disparate use of 2D software tools requires the users to learn many tools in order to manage the enterprise. As a result it is very difficult for enterprise managers and other personnel that use these 2D software tools to quickly assimilate data and interact with the enterprise. Better software tools that can quickly assimilate data and enable users of the tool to effectively interact with the enterprise are therefore desirable.

In one embodiment there is a method for streaming visual representations from a plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters in near real time. In this embodiment the method comprises receiving event data from the plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters wherein the event data is representative of hardware and software elements that each datacenter is managing transforming the event data from each of the plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters into a visual representation of the hardware and software elements that each datacenter is managing and placing each visual representation into a three dimensional space that provides a single operational visualization of the geographically distributed enterprise.

In a second embodiment there is a method for streaming visual representations from a plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters in near real time. In this embodiment the method comprises receiving event data from the plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters aggregating the event data into a composite dataset representative of the current operation of the geographically distributed enterprise comparing the composite dataset to at least one three dimensional model representative of the operation of the geographically distributed enterprise ascertaining differences between the composite dataset and the at least one three dimensional model wherein the differences are indicative of potentially troubling operation and providing a visualization of both the composite data and any difference that may exist wherein the visualization comprises a three dimensional composite visual image of the current operation of the geographically distributed enterprise.

In a third embodiment there is a system for streaming visual representations of an enterprise in near real time. In this embodiment the system comprises a plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters each configured to obtain event data from hardware and software elements in the enterprise. A virtual command center is configured to receive the event data aggregate the event data into a composite dataset representative of the current operation of the enterprise compare the composite dataset to at least one three dimensional model representative of the operation of the geographically distributed enterprise and provide a visualization of the composite data and any difference that may exist. The visualization comprises a composite a three dimensional visual image of the current operation of the geographically distributed enterprise.

In a fourth embodiment there is a computer readable medium storing computer instructions which when executed enables a computer system to stream visual representations from a plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters in near real time. In this embodiment the computer instructions comprises receiving event data from the plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters aggregating the event data into a composite dataset representative of the current operation of the geographically distributed enterprise comparing the composite dataset to at least one three dimensional model representative of the operation of the geographically distributed enterprise ascertaining differences between the composite dataset and the at least one three dimensional model wherein the differences are indicative of potentially troubling operation and providing a visualization of both the composite data and any difference that may exist wherein the visualization comprises a three dimensional composite visual image of the current operation of the geographically distributed enterprise.

In a fifth embodiment there is an enterprise visualization tool for use in a computer system that streams visual representations of an enterprise in near real time. In this embodiment a computer infrastructure is provided and is operable to receive event data from the plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters aggregate the event data into a composite dataset representative of the current operation of the geographically distributed enterprise compare the composite dataset to at least one three dimensional model representative of the operation of the geographically distributed enterprise ascertain differences between the composite dataset and the at least one three dimensional model wherein the differences are indicative of potentially troubling operation and provide a visualization of both the composite data and any difference that may exist wherein the visualization comprises a three dimensional composite visual image of the current operation of the geographically distributed enterprise.

Embodiments of this disclosure are directed to a technique for streaming three dimensional 3D visual representations in near real time of hardware and software elements in an enterprise. The visual representations of the hardware elements includes items such as servers racks networking equipment and power and cooling whereas software elements are visualized in terms of the structure of the underlying software or in logical terms of their business function. These elements are structurally organized into a 3D space known as a virtual command center. This virtual command center provides platform s for equipment observation decks and catwalks display screens and various infrastructures such as the in world communications gear.

A holographic enterprise interface is deployed at datacenter . In one embodiment the holographic enterprise interface is a plugin based component where the plugins connect to the system management software or more specifically to each of the back end enterprise systems. In operation the holographic enterprise interface transforms information from the application programming interfaces of the back end enterprise systems into event data which is subsequently dispatched to the manager of the holographic enterprise interface . In one embodiment the plugins are subclassed from a plugin base class which contains interfaces for managing the plugin instances.

The plugin manager within the holographic enterprise interface routes the plugin generated events to the underlying communications systems within the holographic enterprise interface. The plugin manager also parses an XML configuration file that is the plugin descriptor defining what plugins to load. The communications system within the holographic enterprise interface contains components for encoding event data from the plugins into a Holographic Protocol Architecture. The Holographic Protocol Architecture HPA is a protocol specification that defines packet types and conversation patterns necessary to interact with a virtual command center via a communications network and gateway . The HPA comprises a packet header detailing the packet type 4 bytes sequence number 2 bytes total packets 2 bytes and a location id 2 bytes .

After the packet header is a tuple based data payload of varying length based on constraints that may be introduced by the underlying transport. The communications system within the holographic enterprise interface includes a protocol handler that encodes the data from an event system into the HPA. It also decodes the protocol and dispatches events to plugins when receiving communications from the virtual command center . In addition there is a packet driver that uses a pluggable cipher component to encrypt the packet. It then interfaces with a pluggable transport provider such as XML RPC to dispatch the communications to the virtual command center .

The following configuration enables the virtual command center to operate in synchronous or asynchronous mode with the holographic interface element depending on the underlying transport. In synchronous mode queuing mechanisms are used to batch transmissions inbound to the holographic interface element from the virtual command center . In the event of a stateless synchronous transport the queued data is encoded into the response to the XML RPC call and processed by the communications system within the holographic interface element .

Referring back to the virtual command center which in one embodiment is a 3D simulator grid that structurally organizes elements of the enterprise into a 3D space. Although shows the 3D simulator grid separate from the datacenters the simulator grid may exist at one of the datacenters or at another third party location such as a hosting provider.

The 3D simulator has the characteristics of managing a 3D vector space in which objects are placed. These objects are based on elementary geometric shapes and conic sections. They can be manipulated by applying transforms. They can be linked together to form composite objects. Objects can have scripts that are attached to them and govern their behavior. Objects can listen on 65535 channels for messages coming from the simulator environment. Objects can manage their own state.

In addition the 3D simulator manages the state script execution in world communications and off world communications to multiple 3D clients. In one embodiment multiple simulators can be run on a grid in a parallel processing configuration. In this embodiment grid infrastructure services manage the quality of service provisioning and deployment of simulator instances.

Referring back to for more details of the virtual command center i.e. the 3D simulator there is a channel bank that receives the event data generated from each of the datacenters via the communications network and gateway . The communications gateway routes data to simulator instances that contain the object possessing the UUID of the recipient identified in the message header. Each channel bank is assigned a channel to a datacenter based on the UUID of the channel bank. As a result each channel bank receives data from the gateway based on its UUID.

An aggregator receives the event data from the channel bank . The aggregator aggregates the event data into a composite dataset representative of current operation of the hardware and software elements that are managed by each datacenter .

A communications hub receives the composite data from the aggregator and decrypts and decodes the packets represented by the composite data. In addition the communications hub receives communications from other sources such as an in world virtual network 3D equipment models that mimic real world equipment and software or other sources. These communications are dispatched to an outbound queue for immediate transmission to the holographic enterprise interface or dispatched on the response string of a stateless synchronous transport.

In one embodiment the equipment models are placed within proximity to a repeater. In this embodiment the equipment models listen on assigned frequencies for messages of interest. The applicability of a particular message to a model such as a server can be based on its name IP address or another token. As a result the models can be built from the event data received from the datacenter. Instead of learning the models it is possible to import the 3D models from other sources. In any event the models are used to compare to the composite event data received by the communications hub . Any differences determined by the hub are indicative of potentially troubling operation of the datacenter hardware and middleware system management software or holographic enterprise interface . In one embodiment equipment models and software visualizations can dispatch messages to repeaters by speaking on the appropriate channel. Ultimately these messages are sent to the communications hub for processing and are handled in world or sent to a holographic enterprise interface

The communications hub is then configured to generate a visualization of both the composite data received from the datacenters and any differences that may exist with the 3D models . The visualization comprises a 3D composite visual image s of the current operation of the enterprise. This visual representation is transmitted to users assigned to manage the enterprise via a communications network and computing units . A rendering client operating on the computing units then renders the visualization generated by the visual command center . In particular this rendering client connects to a simulator instance and transmits a protocol which allows the client to render the state of the virtual command center 3D simulator . The protocol includes information such as position and size of objects textures images and animations and other details necessary to render the 3D world. Those skilled in the art will recognize that different simulators use different protocols and that the virtual command center of this disclosure is not dependent on any specific protocol type or implementation.

The foregoing flow chart shows some of the processing functions associated with the virtual command center . In this regard each block represents a process act associated with performing these functions. It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order noted in the figure or for example may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or in the reverse order depending upon the act involved. Also one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that additional blocks that describe the processing functions may be added.

In another embodiment of this disclosure the virtual command center could be used as a service to charge fees for streaming visual representations from a plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters in near real time. In this embodiment the provider of the virtual command center or even the system could offer these systems as a service by performing the functionalities described herein on a subscription and or fee basis. In this case the provider can create deploy maintain support etc. the virtual command center or the system that performs the processes described in the disclosure.

In still another embodiment the methodologies disclosed herein can be used within a computer system to stream visual representations from a plurality of geographically distributed enterprise datacenters in near real time. In this case the system including the virtual command center can be provided and one or more systems for performing the processes described in the disclosure can be obtained and deployed to a computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as a computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the infrastructure to enable the infrastructure to perform the process actions of the disclosure.

In the computing environment there is a computer which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with an exemplary computer include but are not limited to personal computers server computers thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The exemplary computer may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that performs particular tasks or implements particular abstract data types. The exemplary computer may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in the computer in the computing environment is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

The computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

In the system memory includes computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as ROM . A BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on by processor .

Computer may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are each connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces .

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable media which can store data that is accessible by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks RAMs ROM and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including by way of example and not limitation an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of the system shown in for streaming visual representations of an enterprise in near real time.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through optional input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish serial port scanner camera or the like. These and other input devices are connected to the processor unit through a user input interface that is coupled to bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

An optional monitor or other type of display device is also connected to bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers which may be connected through output peripheral interface .

Computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote server computer . Remote computer may include many or all of the elements and features described herein relative to computer .

Logical connections shown in are a local area network LAN and a general wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet. When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to LAN via network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN . The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism.

In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the personal computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on a memory device of remote computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown and described are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

An implementation of an exemplary computer may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communications media. 

 Computer storage media include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

 Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier wave or other transport mechanism. Communication media also includes any information delivery media.

The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

It is apparent that there has been provided with this disclosure an approach for management of enterprise systems and applications using three dimensional visualization technology. While the disclosure has been particularly shown and described in conjunction with a preferred embodiment thereof it will be appreciated that variations and modifications will occur to those skilled in the art. Therefore it is to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

