---

title: Authoring tool sharable file format
abstract: Systems and methods which provide a markup language based file format for storing authoring tool content are shown. The markup language based file format of embodiments provides an aggregated content object containing various assets. A container structure is preferably provided for a plurality of assets comprising the aggregated content object. The assets of embodiments of the present invention include different types of assets, including content assets which contain content and packaging assets which contain aggregated content object information. Content assets may comprise various types or forms of media, such as graphics, video, audio, text, etc. Packaging assets may be in a markup language format, such as may be utilized to provide robust information regarding the aggregated content object and assets thereof. The markup language based file format of embodiments of the invention facilitates access to all or portions of the aggregated content by various authoring tools.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08161389&OS=08161389&RS=08161389
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08161389
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
The present invention is directed generally to data file formats and more particularly to providing sharable data file formats.

Various authoring tools are widely used for creating editing presenting and or publishing content for presentation. Such content may be textual graphical still moving multimedia interactive etc. as well as combinations thereof. Particular authoring tools may be uniquely tailored to provide authoring functionality specifically for creating and or editing one or more particular type or form of content. Thus a particular authoring tool may be best suited for use depending upon the particular type or form of content.

For example the ILLUSTRATOR graphic editor software available from Adobe Systems Incorporated of San Jose Calif. the assignee of the present invention and referred to herein as Adobe provides an authoring tool uniquely tailored to facilitate creating editing presenting and publishing drawings and illustrations. The PHOTOSHOP graphic editor software available from Adobe provides an authoring tool uniquely tailored to facilitate creating editing presenting and publishing photographs films and videos. The WAVEPAD sound editor software available from NCH Swift Pty. Ltd. of Canberra Australia provides an authoring tool uniquely tailored to facilitate creating editing presenting and publishing sound tracks.

Often the content being created edited presented and or published is not limited to one type or form. For example rich multimedia content often providing a combination of video sound graphics and text has become pervasive. Accordingly authoring tools have been developed to facilitate creating editing presenting and or publishing such multimedia content. For example the FLASH development software available from Adobe provides an authoring tool for creating and delivering interactive multimedia content. The FLEX development software also available from Adobe provides an authoring tool for creating rich Internet applications. Such multimedia content authoring tools although providing features uniquely tailored to facilitate combining media of various types or forms into multimedia content often do not provide a full feature set with respect to authoring content of any particular type or form.

Multimedia content authoring tools have heretofore utilized proprietary binary file formats to store individual assets e.g. content of various types used to create the multimedia content as a single object during authoring. For example although perhaps originally provided as individual files of various file formats associated with a particular type or form of content e.g. PEG MPEG FLY WMV MP3 WAV PNG GIF TXT etc. the authoring tool will aggregate the assets forming the multimedia content into the same binary file. Although such a binary file may follow a published standard such as a structured storage standard e.g. COM structured storage or OLE structured storage the particular format of the binary file is proprietary. For example the location of particular assets in the binary file the order of assets in the binary file metadata associated with the assets in the binary file etc. is proprietary to the authoring tool.

The foregoing binary files often provide advantages in efficiently storing the content. However these files are typically not directly accessible by software such as other authoring tools other than the authoring tools that created them. Not only is the binary file not compatible with other software but the assets within the binary file are likewise not accessible to other software. Accordingly it often is very time consuming and difficult for an author of the content to edit an asset of multimedia content created using a multimedia authoring tool. For example assuming the author wishes to edit an asset in a way not supported by the multimedia authoring tool e.g. to remove red eye from a photograph used in a multimedia presentation the author often must load an original or native copy e.g. JPEG file for the photograph in this example into an authoring tool providing the desired authoring feature make the desired edits save the edited asset in the original or native format and then re import the asset into the multimedia content using the multimedia authoring tool.

The present invention is directed to systems and methods which provide a markup language based file format for storing authoring tool content. The markup language based file format of embodiments of the invention provides an aggregated content object containing various content. Such content may comprise various types or forms of media such as graphics video audio text etc.

An aggregated content object preferably provides a container structure for a plurality of assets. The assets of embodiments of the present invention include different types of assets including content assets which contain content and packaging assets which contain aggregated content object information. The assets may be in any of a number of forms and or formats. For example content assets may be in a format native to an authoring tool creating the aggregated content object content assets may be in a format native to another authoring tool or other software application content assets may be in a format adapted to be readily accessible to a number of authoring tools or other software application and or content assets may be in one or more standardized or open formats such as may be directly accessible by a plurality of authoring tools or other software applications. Packaging assets may be in a markup language format e.g. using extensible markup language XML such as may be utilized to provide robust information regarding the aggregated content object and assets thereof.

The foregoing aggregated content object preferably defines a hierarchy of assets. For example one or more packaging assets may be provided at a highest level of the hierarchy wherein the markup language thereof identifies the aggregated content object identifies the assets associated therewith and defines links and interaction among and between the assets. Various content assets may be provided in a hierarchy such as to provide a higher level content asset which includes one or more lower level content assets.

The markup language based file format of embodiments of the invention facilitates access to all or portions of the content such as the entire aggregated content object or individual assets by various authoring tools. For example although an aggregated content object may have been created using a particular multimedia authoring tool another multimedia authoring tool may be utilized to access the aggregated content object such as for creating editing presenting and or publishing content. Similarly although an aggregated content object may have been created using a multimedia authoring tool an authoring tool uniquely tailored to provide authoring functionality specifically for creating and or editing one or more particular type or form of content may be utilized to access a content asset of the aggregated content object.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the invention will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiment disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The novel features which are believed to be characteristic of the invention both as to its organization and method of operation together with further objects and advantages will be better understood from the following description when considered in connection with the accompanying figures. It is to be expressly understood however that each of the figures is provided for the purpose of illustration and description only and is not intended as a definition of the limits of the present invention.

Directing attention to a high level block diagram of a system adapted according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In the embodiment of multimedia authoring tool such as may comprise a version of the FLASH development software adapted according to the present invention is utilized to create edit present and or publish multimedia content for presentation using various source content. The source content utilized by multimedia authoring tool such as source content may be created by one or more other authoring tools such as authoring tools . Additionally or alternatively content included in the multimedia content may be originally sourced by multimedia authoring tool . The foregoing content may comprise various types or forms of media such as graphics e.g. images of source content and video e.g. video of source content audio e.g. sound of source content text etc.

Irrespective of the original source of the content multimedia authoring tool provides aggregated content object comprising a markup language based file format according to embodiments of the invention containing various content. Although various markup languages may be utilized in implementing embodiments of the invention embodiments of aggregated content object will be described herein with reference to use of extensible markup language XML . Aggregated content object preferably provides a container structure for a plurality of assets ones of which correspond to the aforementioned various content. Detail with respect to a preferred embodiment configuration of aggregated content object is provided below with reference to .

The markup language based file format of embodiments of the invention facilitates access to all or portions of the content such as the entire aggregated content object or individual assets by various authoring tools. For example although aggregated content object may have been created using multimedia authoring tool multimedia authoring tool such as may comprise the FLEX development software available from Adobe may be utilized to access aggregated content object for creating editing presenting and or publishing content. Similarly portions of aggregated content object may accessed by authoring tools uniquely tailored to provide authoring functionality specifically for creating and or editing one or more particular type or form of content. For example authoring tool adapted to provide graphic authoring functionality may be utilized to directly access assets of aggregated content object corresponding to images of source content and source content . Authoring tool adapted to provide video authoring functionality may be utilized to directly access assets of aggregated content object corresponding to a video of source content . Authoring tool adapted to provide video authoring functionality may be utilized to directly access assets of aggregated content object corresponding to sound of source content .

According to embodiments of the invention the markup language based file format facilitates the foregoing access to portions of aggregated content object simultaneously by multiple ones of the authoring tools. For example although multimedia authoring tool may be presently operated by a user thereof in creating or editing aggregated content object one or more of authoring tools may concurrently access an asset thereof for editing.

Directing attention to detail with respect to an embodiment of markup language based file format of aggregated content object is shown. Specifically aggregated content object of is shown to include a plurality of assets here assets and associated to form an aggregated object. Such an object may be packaged using a universal container format UCF technique wherein the container format particular asset contents container libraries and or the like are defined such that a plurality of different software applications may readily access the container and or portions thereof. Embodiments of the invention utilize a compressed zip container file format e.g. a file object consistent with that resulting from operation of the PKZIP or WINZIP file compression software applications in providing a plurality of assets as an aggregated content object as described herein. Of course other container formats may be utilized according to embodiments of the invention such as a file folder structure linked list object linking and embedding OLE etc. if desired.

The assets of embodiments of aggregated content object preferably include different types of assets. For example asset of the illustrated embodiment comprises a packaging asset whereas assets and comprise content assets. One or more of the foregoing packaging assets may be provided at a highest level of the hierarchy wherein the markup language thereof identifies the aggregated content object identifies the content assets associated therewith and defines links and interaction among and between the content assets. One or more of the foregoing content assets preferably provide content portions utilized in forming desired content. Other types of assets such as meta assets may additionally or alternatively be utilized according to embodiments of the invention.

Packaging assets of embodiments of the invention preferably include information regarding the aggregated content object and or assets thereof. For example asset of the illustrated embodiment comprises a manifest of assets which comprise aggregated content object . Packaging asset may comprise for example XML code providing reference pointers or links to each of assets and thereby identifying each of these assets with aggregated content object . Packaging asset and or other packaging assets not shown of aggregated content object may comprise XML code defining hierarchical relationships between the various assets such as to utilize one or more asset as a library asset to facilitate use and reuse of various content assets as desired in the resulting multimedia content. Additionally or alternatively packaging asset and or other packaging assets of aggregated content object may comprise XML code defining use and or interaction of the various content assets in order to aggregate these content assets into desired multimedia content.

Content assets of embodiments of the invention preferably include content which when aggregated provides desired multimedia content. Such content assets may be in any of a number of forms and or formats. According to an embodiment of the invention content assets may be in a format native to an authoring tool creating the aggregated content object content assets may be in a format native to another authoring tool or other software application content assets may be in a format adapted to be readily accessible to a number of authoring tools or other software application and or content assets may be in one or more standardized or open formats such as may be directly accessible by a plurality of authoring tools or other software applications.

For example although aggregated into aggregated content object by multimedia authoring tool content assets provide content in a standardized format which is directly accessible by various authoring tools. Specifically content assets and of the illustrated embodiment comprise images in the PG format as is well known in the art which remain directly accessible to such authoring tools as graphic authoring tool such as may comprise the PHOTOSHOP graphic editor software available from Adobe. Content asset of the illustrated embodiment comprises sound in the MP3 format as is well known in the art which remains directly accessible to such authoring tools as sound authoring tool such as may comprise the WAVEPAD sound editor software available from NCH Swift Pty. Ltd. Content asset of the illustrated embodiment comprises video in the FLV format as is well known in the art which remains directly accessible to such authoring tools as multimedia authoring tool such as may comprise the FLASH development software.

Content assets and of the illustrated embodiment comprise content native to multimedia authoring tool . For example content assets and may comprise symbols such as graphics buttons animations etc. generated by multimedia authoring tool which can be reused throughout the multimedia content provided by aggregated content object . Such symbols may additionally provide library assets which may be utilized in other multimedia content not shown .

Content assets and of embodiments may comprise content which is created using multimedia authoring tool . For example content assets and or may comprise graphics comprised of vector graphics bitmaps etc. created using multimedia authoring tool . Additionally or alternatively content assets and or may incorporate and or link to additional content.

Directing attention to content asset is shown as defining a combination of content assets and to provide logical content asset . For example content asset of the illustrated embodiment comprises a manifest of assets which comprise logical content asset . Content asset may comprise for example XML code providing reference pointers or links to each of assets and thereby identifying each of these assets with logical content asset . Accordingly content asset and or other content assets of aggregated content object may comprise XML code defining hierarchical relationships between various assets such as to utilize one or more asset as a library asset to facilitate use and reuse of various content assets as desired in the resulting multimedia content. Additionally or alternatively content asset and or other content assets of aggregated content object may comprise XML code defining use and or interaction of the various content assets in order to aggregate these content assets into desired symbols or other composite content.

Content which is native to an authoring tool such as multimedia authoring tool is often provided in a proprietary format of the authoring tool e.g. the FLA format utilized for symbol content by the FLASH development software . However content assets and and their associated logical content assets e.g. logical content asset of the illustrated embodiment are provided in a format adapted to be readily accessible to a number of authoring tools or other software application here a markup language format. For example as with the markup language based file format of aggregated content object content assets and of embodiments of the present invention implement a markup language manifest to facilitate access to the logical content asset by various authoring tools. Additionally the markup language of content assets and may define links and interaction among and between the assets forming the logical content assets. Accordingly although content assets and may have been created using multimedia authoring tool one or more of authoring tools may be utilized to the logical content assets or portions thereof. That is one or more authoring tools in addition to multimedia authoring tool may be utilized to access logical content asset as well as content assets and thereof.

Asset configurations utilized according to embodiments of the invention are not limited to the single object e.g. content assets and hierarchical object e.g. logical content asset configurations shown above. For example embodiments of the present invention may provide a multiple format asset configuration. Directing attention to logical content asset is shown comprised of content assets and . Content assets and provide dual formats for particular content. That is although providing the same content e.g. text image sound etc. content asset is provided in a first format e.g. the aforementioned markup language based format providing accessibility to a number of software applications and content asset is provided in a second format e.g. a binary or optimized format such as the FLA format used by the FLASH development software . Such dual formats may provide the subject content in a format which is accessible to a number of authoring tools e.g. authoring tools while retaining advantages associated with the use of particular proprietary or optimized formats. For example the FLA format used by the FLASH development software may provide optimized loading and processing in multimedia authoring tool and thus may be preferred for use therewith. Additionally or alternatively the FLA format may provide backward compatibility with respect to earlier versions of the FLASH development software. However many of authoring tools may not be adapted to access the FLA format. Accordingly this content may also be provided in aggregated content object in an open format as content asset .

The foregoing multiple format content assets are preferably treated as a single logical content asset by multimedia authoring tool and or aggregated content object . For example aggregated content object of embodiments operates to store content updates in each content asset of a multiple format logical asset when content is edited using multimedia authoring tool . Additionally to ensure edits to content made by other authoring tools are synchronized upon multimedia authoring tool accessing aggregated content object the assets of a multiple format asset may be analyzed for synchronization. According to one embodiment multimedia authoring tool directly analyzes the multiple format assets of a logical asset to identify an out of synchronization status and to cause a most recent version of the content as present in one of the assets to be propagated into the other assets of the logical asset. Additionally or alternatively multimedia authoring tool may analyze packaging or other aggregated content object information to identify an out of synchronization status.

Although the foregoing example is given with reference to dual formats embodiments of the invention may utilize any number of asset formats in forming a multiple format logical asset. For example embodiments may utilize a multiple format configuration in which multiple open formats are used in order to optimize the number of authoring tools that may access the content in addition to one or more binary or optimized formats being used in a multiple format logical asset.

It should be appreciated that various asset configurations may be used in combination according to embodiments of the invention. For example the foregoing multiple format content asset configuration may be used to provide multiple format logical content asset including content asset which itself comprises a hierarchical configuration in which content assets and are combined into logical content asset .

Moreover the form and or format of various content assets aggregated as part of aggregated content object are not limited to those shown in the illustrative embodiments. Content assets utilized according to embodiments of the invention may comprise any number of forms and formats such as PEG MPEG SWF FLA FLY WMV MP4 MP3 WAY PNG GIF AI TXT etc. For example a content asset utilized according to embodiments of the present invention may comprise graphics in the AI format as is well known in the art which is directly accessible to such authoring tools as graphic authoring tool such as may comprise the ILLUSTRATOR graphic editor software. Likewise a content asset utilized according to embodiments of the present invention may comprise video in the MP4 format as is well known in the art which is directly accessible to such authoring tools as video authoring tool such as may comprise the VIDEOREDO video editor software available from DRD Systems Inc. Mendham N.J.

It should be appreciated that form and format of content assets utilized according to embodiments of the invention are not limited to access by any particular authoring tool or even any particular type of authoring tool provided such authoring tool is compatible with the particular format. For example content asset is discussed above as being accessible to another multimedia authoring tool here multimedia authoring tool which may additionally directly access one or more of content assets and or . Likewise one or more of sound authoring tool video authoring tool graphic authoring tool and graphic authoring tool may directly access content asset as well as other ones of the content assets according to embodiments of the invention.

Having described an aggregated content object and its associated assets provided according to an embodiment of the invention operation of authoring tools in creating and editing such an aggregated content object according to embodiments will be described. It should be appreciated that when implemented in software elements of the present invention are essentially the code segments to perform the tasks or functions described herein. The code segments can be stored in a computer readable medium or transmitted by a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave or a signal modulated by a carrier over a transmission medium Such a computer readable medium may include any medium that can store or transfer information. Examples of a computer readable medium include an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a ROM a flash memory an erasable ROM EROM a floppy diskette a compact disk CD ROM an optical disk a hard disk a fiber optic medium etc. The computer data signal may include any signal that can propagate over a transmission medium such as electronic network channels optical fibers air electromagnetic radio frequency RF links etc. The code segments may be downloaded via computer networks such as the Internet an intranet a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a wireless network the public switched telephone network PSTN etc.

Bus is also coupled to input output I O controller adaptor communications adapter adaptor user interface adaptor and display adaptor . I O adapter adaptor connects to storage devices such as may comprise one or more of a hard drive a CD drive a floppy disk drive a tape drive to the computer system. I O adapter is also connected to printer which would allow the system to print paper copies of information such as document photographs articles etc. Note that the printer may be a printer e.g. dot matrix laser etc. a fax machine or a copier machine. Communications adaptor is adapted to couple computer system to network such as may comprise one or more of the PSTN the Internet a LAN a MAN a WAN a wireless network etc. User interface adaptor couples user input devices such as keyboard pointing device and microphone to the computer system. User interface adaptor also provides sound output to a user via speaker s . The display adaptor is driven by CPU to control the display on display device .

Directing attention to a method providing operation of authoring tools in creating and editing such an aggregated content object using a computer system such as computer system is shown. At block of the illustrated embodiment an operator uses an authoring tool to create access and or edit content to create desired aggregated content. For example an operator may load multimedia authoring tool on computer system and interact with multimedia authoring tool to access various source content such as source content and or create various native content to be aggregated. Multimedia authoring tool may be adapted to access source content of various forms and or formats using application programming interfaces APIs or other code configured to interface with desired source content. Once loaded or provided within multimedia authoring tool the content source and native content becomes assets of the aggregated content. Various relationships and interactions may be defined among and between these assets using multimedia authoring tool in providing the aggregated content.

At block of the illustrated embodiment the aggregated content is packaged as an aggregated content object. For example an operator may interact with multimedia authoring tool to save the aggregated content such as to store the aggregated content on storage device for later editing or revision. In operation according to a preferred embodiment of the invention multimedia authoring tool is adapted to create a container structure for the assets of the aggregated content such as using a universal container format UCF . According to one embodiment multimedia authoring tool is adapted to create aggregated content object comprising a plurality of assets such as assets and using a compressed zip container file format e.g. creating a file object consistent with that resulting from operation of the PKZIP or WINZIP file compression software applications . The foregoing packaging of the assets into a single object may be utilized as a native storage mode of the authoring tool or as an optional storage mode such as may be used for scenarios when additional authoring tool compatibility is desired.

Using such a container format according to embodiments of the present invention the plurality of assets forming aggregated content object may continue to be identifiable and accessible as individual assets although aggregated content object may readily be treated as a single object. Accordingly multimedia authoring tool preferably includes APIs or other code configured to interface with assets of various forms and formats and to provide such assets in such forms and formats within aggregated content object created thereby. Accordingly any number of authoring tools or other software applications which are compatible with the form or format of particular assets such as content assets and or may access such assets within the container structure of aggregated content object of embodiments.

In packaging aggregated content into aggregated content object embodiments of the invention operate to include more than the aforementioned content assets therein. For example embodiments of the invention operate to create one or more packaging assets useful in creating accessing managing editing and or revising an aggregated content object. According to a preferred embodiment multimedia authoring tool is operable to create and or edit a packaging asset such as packaging asset comprising a manifest of assets which comprise aggregated content object . Additionally or alternatively multimedia authoring tool is operable to create and or edit a packaging asset such as packaging asset comprising information defining links and interaction among and between the assets. Accordingly various relationships and interactions defined by an operator using multimedia authoring tool among and between the assets in providing the aggregated content are stored as part of aggregated content object of embodiments. The information provided in such packaging assets may additionally or alternatively define hierarchical relationships of the assets define logical assets etc.

At block of the illustrated embodiment one or more authoring tools accesses the aggregated content and or portions thereof to create access edit etc. content thereof. For example multimedia authoring tool may access aggregated content object to enable an operator to aggregate additional content edit content which has previously been aggregated create new content view or play the aggregated content or portions thereof etc. Thereafter the aggregated content or affected portions thereof may again be saved in aggregated content object as shown in block .

In operation according to embodiments of the invention any of authoring tools may be used at block to access aggregated content object or particular portions thereof to edit content which has previously been aggregated view or play the aggregated content or portions thereof etc. For example where content asset comprises a photograph an operator may access graphic authoring tool such as may comprise the PHOTOSHOP graphic editor software utilize a feature thereof to remove red eye from the photograph. Such edits to content asset may be saved directly to aggregated content object at block thereby avoiding an operator having to re import a revised copy of source content into aggregated content object using multimedia authoring tool . Moreover because the assets are maintained somewhat independently within the container structure of aggregated content object of embodiments various different assets may be accessed simultaneously such as by different authoring tools or other software applications.

In addition to providing advantages such as authoring tool compatibility ease of editing and simultaneous editing of multiple assets the aggregated content objects of embodiments of the present invention provide a robust storage technique which has improved tolerance to data corruption. For example a typical binary file used to store aggregated content is often rendered completely inaccessible when only a portion thereof is corrupted. However because the assets are maintained somewhat independently within the container structure of an aggregated content object of embodiments of the present invention various portions of the aggregated content object may become corrupted while assets thereof remain undamaged and fully accessible. Accordingly such portions of a corrupted aggregated content object may be recovered and used to provide a new aggregated content object.

Moreover embodiments of the present invention provide additional benefits such as facilitating cross compiling capabilities. For example each of multimedia authoring tools and may provide a compile function wherein aggregated content is complied into binary code for execution by a corresponding multimedia runtime player such as the FLASH player or a browser. Because aggregated content object of embodiments provides the aggregated content in a format which is accessible by both multimedia authoring tool e.g. FLASH development software and multimedia authoring tool e.g. the FLEX development software either or both such authoring tools may be utilized to provide a compiled rendition of aggregated content object .

Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

