---

title: Method and system for an architecture of DCR DTV receiver SoC with embedded reprogrammable security
abstract: A security processor may be embedded within a digital cable ready (DCR) digital TV (DTV) system-on-chip to performing content protection operations during digital TV signal processing. The embedded security processor may be used to perform operations that are currently performed by an external entity, such as, for an example, a CableCard. The embedded security processor maybe configured to use a conditional access function including, but not limited to, CableLabs® Downloadable Conditional Access System (DCAS) based function. The security processor may be reprogrammable to enable the system-on-chip to be reconfigured with a different function and/or to allow operation with a new cable service provider. The security processor may enable secure reprogrammability of the system-on-chip utilizing security algorithms and/or other mechanisms including use of chip-specific identification information. The SoC may be enabled to operate with a CableCard whenever the security processor may be disabled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08959327&OS=08959327&RS=08959327
owner: 
number: 08959327
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20070427
---
Certain embodiments of the invention relate to Digital Television DTV . More specifically certain embodiments of the invention relate to a method and system for a secure reprogrammable system on a chip SoC for a digital cable ready DCR Digital Television DTV receiver.

Digital Television DTV has gained increased popularity in recent years more and more service providers transitioned and or are transitioning from providing analog based services to digital based ones.

In most DTV services the DTV receivers need to include content protection technologies for example Conditional Access Receiver Digital Right Management DRM for copy protection. To satisfy such need a lot of operators provide their customers with set top boxes that incorporate functionality to account for such content protection application. However there has been a push toward moving away from such requirement for set top box and toward Digital Cable Ready DCR DTV. With the DCR DTV the Digital TV set would simply plug into a cable jack and thus the operator network and would be able to function without set top box.

In order to help smooth the transition to DTV for millions of users The Federal Communications Commission FCC has adopted plug and play rules to ensure that most cable systems are compatible with DTV receivers and related consumer electronics equipment. This is crucial toward building products developing services and maintaining a market friendly environment for HDTV. The cable plug and play rules are important to the DTV transition because they facilitate direct connection of digital navigation devices or customer premises equipment such as Television receivers set top boxes and digital recorders that are purchased from retail outlets to cable Television systems. These plug and play capabilities are generally aimed at promoting integrated DTV products that is Digital TV sets that may run without use of actual set top box. The users may simply plug such integrated Digital TV set into their cable jack and using a security module called CableCard provided by the cable operator receive DTV programming and related services. From a security point of view CableCard removes the conditional access of the DTV programming and re scramble the programming by using a standard copy protection mechanism.

While the use of CableCard permits forgoing of use of physical set top boxes it also has draw backs of its own. CableCard devices are generally expensive and the burden of costs would have to be borne by either the providers or the customers. Furthermore the CableCard solution is inflexible because providers would require different and unique CableCard devices that is specifically configured to these providers content protection technologies. Therefore whenever a customer changes providers or even in some situations where a provider may change their content protection technologies the CableCard devices in current use may need to be replaced. Other approaches to satisfy the FCC s plug and play rules are considered because of the potential limitations and issues related to use of CableCard.

One new approach is to develop a downloadable conditional access CA function DCAS as described in by major US cable operators. DCAS proposes a cost effective network agnostic solution for interactive two way devices that connect to cable systems allowing cable operators to download their conditional access CA function s of choice to devices connected to the cable network. However DCAS also has its limitations. Because DCAS is aimed at allowing cable providers to change content protection technologies a considerable control by the cable operator at the head end side would be requires. In other words the product using the DCAS must be configured to work specifically with a specific cable operator. Therefore while the DCAS may be ideal for products that still use set top boxes it may not be practical for integrated Digital TV sets because it would require these sets to be designed specifically to conform to a certain set of content protection technologies. In other words DCAS requires very restricted production processes which are specified by the cable industry and these processes may not be suitable to the DTV production process because DTV manufacturers may not want to have their DTV SoC be limited by specific cable provider.

Further limitations and disadvantages of conventional and traditional approaches will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such systems with some aspects of the present invention as set forth in the remainder of the present application with reference to the drawings.

A system and or method is provided for a secure reprogrammable system on a chip SoC for a digital cable ready DCR Digital Television DTV receiver substantially as shown in and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

These and other advantages aspects and novel features of the present invention as well as details of an illustrated embodiment thereof will be more fully understood from the following description and drawings.

Certain embodiments of the invention may be found in a method and system for a secure reprogrammable system on a chip SoC for a digital cable ready DCR Digital Television DTV receiver. A security processor may be embedded within a digital cable ready DCR digital TV DTV system on chip to perform content protection operations during digital TV signal processing. The embedded security processor may be used to perform operations that are currently performed by an external entity such as for an example a CableCard. The embedded security processor may be configured to use a conditional access function including but not limited to CableLabs Downloadable Conditional Access System DCAS based function. The security processor may be reprogrammable to enable the system on chip to be reconfigured with a different function and or to allow operation with a new cable service provider. The security processor need be certified with certain security level to satisfy the robustness rules specified by service providers or the protection profile specified by a security standard to facilitated secure operations and reprogramming subsequently the security processor may enable secure reprogramming of the system on chip utilizing security algorithms and or other mechanisms comprising use of chip specific identification information. The SoC may be enabled to operate with a CableCard in instances when the security processor is disabled.

The DTV SoC may comprise a host CPU an analog signal processor a DTV terrestrial processor a digital multimedia processor and a post multimedia processor and suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable reception and processing operations of TV signals. The host CPU may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable various processing operations. The invention may not be limited to a specific processor but may comprise for example a general purpose processor a specialized processor or any combination of suitable hardware firmware software and or code which may be enabled to provide secure reprogrammability of system on chip. The host CPU may configure and control various other processors in the DTV SoC including but not limited the analog signal processor the DTV terrestrial processor the digital multimedia processor and the post multimedia processor .

The analog TV signal processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable processing of an analog TV signal. The invention is not limited to a specific type of analog TV signal but may comprise for example NTSC or PAL signal processor. The DTV terrestrial processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable processing of a terrestrial DTV signal. The invention is not limited to a specific type of DTV signal but may comprise for example VSB ATSC signal processor. The digital multimedia processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable performing digital transport processing. The invention is not limited to a specific type of digital transport processing but may comprise for example MPEG 2 multimedia processing MPEG 2 video decoder Dolby Digital AC3 decoder . . . etc. The post multimedia processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable performing digital audio and video processing to facilitate suitable output signals within a Digital TV set.

In operation the host CPU may perform various general processing operations including but not limited to configuring and controlling various other processors in the DTV SoC which may include the analog signal processor the DTV terrestrial processor the digital multimedia processor and the post multimedia processor . The analog TV processor may perform process analog TV signals. This may include performing demodulation and A D analog digital conversion decoding composite video to digital components BTSC stereo decoding and other types of operations. The analog TV signal processor ensures that the DTV SoC and the Digital TV set in general is backward compatible. In instances where an analog TV signal may be received the analog TV signal processor may perform necessary processing operation on the signal to ensure that it may be displayed. The analog TV signal processor may be configured and controlled by the host CPU during such operation.

The DTV terrestrial processor may process DTV signal received over terrestrial link. The DTV terrestrial processor may be enabled to perform such operations as RF conversion signal demodulation de interleaving decoding an other operations according to pre determined standard such as for example VSB and ATSC. The DTV terrestrial processor may produce a digital transport stream that corresponds to the received DTV signal. The resulting transport stream may be sent to the digital multimedia processor .

The digital multimedia processor may perform digital transport processing. This may comprise extracting the digital and audio content of the digital transport stream and perform necessary decoding processing on the video and or audio content of the digital transport stream. Once the video and audio digital contents are decoded the post multimedia processor may perform any necessary processing to ensure that the video and audio contents may be output via a Digital TV set.

The TV head end may comprise suitable hardware and or software that may enable TV signal transmission and communication via one or more distribution networks such as the distribution network . The TV head end may transmit an analog or digital TV signal. The distribution network may comprise suitable distribution system that may enable communication between the TV head end and the set top box and or the Digital TV set . The set top box may comprise suitable hardware and or software that may enable processing DTV transmission from a TV head end transmitting encrypted digital TV signals with some content protection technology. The Digital TV set may comprise suitable hardware and or software that may enable outputting TV video and audio. The Digital TV set may comprise the DTV SoC .

In operation the TV head end may communicate with the distribution network to transmit TV signals. The transmitted signal may be a digital TV signal and may be subject to some content protection technologies. The distribution network may transmit the DTV signals to the set top box and or the Digital TV set . In the instance that the TV head end is transmitting analog signal or un encrypted digital signal the signal may be transmitted directly into the Digital TV set . Alternatively in instances when the TV head end may be transmitting encrypted digital TV signal the set top box may decrypt the received DTV signal by applying proper content protection operations. The set top box may be pre configured or configured to apply content protection operations that are specific to a service provider. The Digital TV set may process the signal either received directly from the distribution network or from the set top box . The Digital TV set may utilize the DTV SoC in order to output the corresponding video and audio components of the received DTV signal.

The DCR DTV SoC may comprise the host CPU the analog signal processor a DTV terrestrial processor the digital multimedia processor and the post multimedia processor as disclosed in . The DCR DTV SoC may also comprise a digital cable processor and suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable reception and processing operations of TV signals. The digital cable processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable one way and or two way communication with cable TV head end . The digital cable processor may comprise a QAM receiver that receives QAM analog signal centered at the standard TV IF frequencies amplifies and digitizes this signal with a gain amplifier and A D converter. The digital receiver demodulates matched filters and then filters the signal to remove multi path propagation effects and narrowband inter channel interface. The trellis code and Reed Solomon code decoders may support ITU T J.83 Annex A B C standard. The digital cable processor may also comprise Out Of Band QPSK receiver that may digitize the IF signal and demodulate the signal with recovered clock and carrier timing filters and equalize the data and may also include a forward error correction FEC decoder. The digital cable processor may also comprise a QPSK transmitter for two way cable communications. The CableCard may comprise suitable hardware and or software that may enable processing DTV transmission applying necessary content protection operations.

In operation the digital cable processor may process a digital cable signal. The control processor may process the received signal when necessary transmit. Where necessary the digital cable processor may utilize the CableCard to decrypt the received signal by applying proper content protection applications. The CableCard may be pre configured or configured to apply content protection operations that are specific to a cable operator. The CableCard may interact with the digital multimedia processor to ensure that the encrypted signal was decrypted and may be processed by the digital multimedia processor . The host CPU may additionally configure and control the CableCard and the digital cable processor . Subsequently the final transport stream may be sent to the digital multimedia processor wherein the signal may be processed as disclosed in .

The digital cable head end may comprise suitable hardware and or software that may enable digital cable signal transmission and communication via one or more distribution networks such as the distribution network . The distribution network may comprise suitable distribution system that may enable communication between digital cable head end and the DCR DTV . The DCR Digital TV set may comprise suitable hardware and or software that may enable processing DTV signals including digital cable. The DCR Digital TV set may comprise the DCR DTV SoC .

In operation the digital cable head end may communicate with the distribution network to transmit digital cable signals. The transmitted signal may be subject to some content protection technologies. The distribution network may transmit the signals to DCR Digital TV set . The DCR Digital TV set may process the DTV signal utilizing the DCR DTV SoC . The DCR DTV SoC may decrypt the received DTV signal by applying proper content protection operations utilizing the CableCard . The CableCard may be pre configured or configured to apply content protection operations that are specific to a cable operator. Subsequent to the decryption of the DTV signal the DCR DTV SoC may process the decrypted signal in order to output the corresponding video and audio components of the received DTV signal.

The DCR DTV SoC may comprise the host CPU the analog signal processor a DTV terrestrial processor the digital multimedia processor the post multimedia processor and the digital cable processor as disclosed in . The DCR DTV SoC may also comprise a modem and suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable reception and processing operations of TV signals. The modem may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable data transmission and communication services between the DCR DTV SoC and a head end. This may include for example DSL service.

In operation the modem may enable the DCR DTV SoC to establish a data link a peer to peer link for example with a head end to facilitate transmission and reception of data communication. The modem may utilize the digital cable processor to perform two communication with a digital cable head end. The modem may also utilize the CableCard to decrypt the received signal by applying proper content protection applications. The CableCard may be pre configured or configured to apply content protection operations that are specific to a cable operator. The host CPU may additionally configure and control the modem . When receiving a TV signal the DCR DTV SoC may operate as disclosed in .

The DCR DTV SoC may comprise the host CPU the analog signal processor a DTV terrestrial processor the digital multimedia processor the post multimedia processor and the digital cable processor and the modem as disclosed in . The DCR DTV SoC may also comprise a security processor and suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable reception and processing operations of TV signals. The security processor may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable performing content protection operations.

In operation the digital cable processor may process a digital cable signal. The control processor may process the received signal. Where necessary the digital cable processor may interact with the security processor to decrypt the received signal by applying proper content protection applications. Subsequently a transport stream may be sent to the digital multimedia processor and the security processor may configure and control the digital multimedia processor and the post multimedia processor to ensure that the signal may be processed as disclosed in .

The security processor may be configured to apply content protection operations that are specific to a cable operator. However the security processor may not be limited to a specific cable operator or to a specific content protection operation and or technology. The security processor may be reprogrammed or configured to perform new content protection operations that are either specific to a new cable operator or to a different system. The security processor may enable reprogrammability utilizing the modem and the digital cable processor to establish and perform two way communication with a digital cable head end. The security processor may also enable performing the reprogramming in secure manner utilizing a combination of security algorithms and or other mechanism to ensure authenticity of reprogrammability. For example the security processor my use a symmetric security algorithm for example AES based algorithm or an asymmetric security algorithm for example RSA based algorithm. The security processor my use other mechanism to further improve security during reprogrammability including but not limited use of chip specific identification information. The security processor may store security related information internally to further improve security during said reprogrammability. This security related information may comprise for example the chip specific identification information and or keys signatures and similar information necessary for use of a security algorithm.

The security processor may comprise the processing unit the one time programmable random access memory OTP ROM the reprogrammable non volatile memory reprogrammable NVM the execution random access memory Execution RAM and suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable performing operations such as content protection operations and or reprogramming functions as disclosed in .

The processing unit may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable performing operations that enable performing content protection operations and reprogrammability functions. The OTP ROM may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable one time programming of data and or code that may be read and used by the processing unit during two stage code reprogramming. The reprogrammable NVM may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may non permanent but secure storage and use of date and or code by processing unit during content protection and reprogrammability operations. The execution RAM may comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable non permanent storage and use of date and or code used by processing unit during content protection and reprogrammability operations.

In operation the processing unit may perform security processor operations. The processing unit may utilize the execution RAM to ensure secure operability independent of the host CPU especially during reprogramming of DCR DTV SoC . The processing unit may utilize the reprogrammable NVM to load and store code and or data utilize to perform content protection operations. The data and or code in reprogrammable NVM may be reprogrammed during reprogrammability of DCR DTV SoC . The OTP ROM may be utilized to store permanent data and or code that may be read and used during such operations as reprogrammability of DCR DTV SoC . For example the OTP ROM may be utilized to store such information as for example chip specific identification information. In an exemplary reprogramming scenario the processing unit may fetch data and or code stored in the OTP ROM to use that information for authentication purpose to improve security of reprogrammability of DCR DTV SoC .

The DCR DTV SoC may comprise the host CPU the analog signal processor a DTV terrestrial processor the digital multimedia processor the post multimedia processor and the digital cable processor the modem and the security processor as disclosed in . The DCR DTV SoC may also comprise suitable logic circuitry and or code that may enable the DCR DTV SoC to utilize a CableCard .

In operation in the event that the security processor is disabled the DCR DTV SoC may be enabled to utilize CableCard to operate as disclosed in .

Returning to step the determination of the type of signal received is TERRESTRIAL the process may proceed to step . In step a terrestrial TV signal processing is performed. This may include but is not limited to performing such operations as RF conversion signal demodulation de interleaving decoding an other operations according to pre determined standard such as for example VSB and ATSC. In step a digital multimedia processing is performed. This may comprise extracting the digital and audio content of the digital transport stream and perform necessary decoding processing on the video and or audio content of the digital transport stream. This may include but is not limited to performing digital transport processing and may comprise for example MPEG 2 multimedia processing MPEG 2 video decoder Dolby Digital AC3 decoder. In step post multimedia processing may be performed. This may comprise performing digital audio and video processing to facilitate suitable output signals within a Digital TV set.

Returning to step when the determination of the type of signal received is DIGITAL CABLE the process may proceed to step . In step a determination of whether a network communication is sent may be performed. In instances when it may be determined that no network communication is sent the process may proceed to step . In step digital cable processing may be performed. This may comprise performing one way and or two way communication with cable TV head end . This may also comprise application of necessary conditional access information. The security processor may comprise information necessary to performing such conditional access functions. When this step is complete the process may proceed to step .

Returning to step in instances when it may be determined that network communication is sent the process may proceed to step . In step modem processing may be performed. This may comprise performing data transmission and communication services including but limited to DSL services. Step may comprise performing digital cable processing as described in step . When this step complete the process may proceed to step .

Returning to step in instances when the outcome is FAILURE the process may proceed to step . In step the system sets to CableCard mode and the security processor is disabled. In step the CableCard interface is CableCard interface is enabled components of the SoC may interact with the CableCard while performing conditional access procedures.

Returning to step in instances when the determination whether a reprogramming command was sent is NO the process may proceed to step . In step Protected Operation mode is initiated by reading the operation mode of system stored in the reprogrammable NVM . In step a determination whether the system is in CableCard mode is made. In instances when the determination the system is in CableCard mode is NO the process may proceed to step . In step the CableCard interface is disabled components of the SoC may not interact with the CableCard while performing conditional access procedures. In step the SoC initiate performing conditional access procedures utilizing the security processor.

Returning to step in instances when the determination the system is in CableCard mode is YES the process may proceed to step . In step the security processor is disabled and the process proceeds to step as described above.

Various embodiments of the invention may comprise a method and system for performing content protection operations pertaining to digital cable TV signal processing within a digital cable ready DCR digital TV DTV system on chip. An embedded security processor may be used to perform operations that are currently performed by an external entity such as for an example a CableCard. The security processor may be reprogrammable to enable the system on chip to be reconfigured with a different content protection function and or to allow compatibility with a new cable service provider. The security processor may enable secure reprogrammability of the system on chip utilizing security algorithms and or other mechanism. The security processor may internal store information that is necessary to enable secure reprogrammability of the system on chip. The system on chip may be enabled to operate with a CableCard whenever the security processor may be disabled.

Accordingly the present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention may also be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While the present invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the present invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

