---

title: Method and apparatus for providing fulfillment services
abstract: Method and apparatus for providing inventory fulfillment services to customers who have small quantities of heterogeneous items to sell. A self-service registration interface for generating lists of items to sell via the inventory fulfillment service is provided. The inventory fulfillment service may provide pricing suggestions to the customer. The inventory fulfillment service may determine whether a listed item satisfies one or more listing rules. Shipping information for a list of items may be automatically generated and provided to the customer. The customer may ship the items in one shipment to a specified facility. The customer is the seller of record for all items listed. The customer may not be charged for services until an item is sold. A listing period may be specified for which listed items will be carried. If an item does not sell within the period, option(s) for disposal of the item may be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189768&OS=09189768&RS=09189768
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09189768
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070531
---
This invention relates to computer implemented registration for inventory management services and more particularly to computer implemented techniques for offering inventory fulfillment services.

In order to offer customers a variety of items readily available for delivery many merchants whether engaging in electronic or conventional brick and mortar commerce hold various quantities of such items within inventory facilities. Keeping items in inventory may serve to buffer variations in customer demand or a manufacturer or distributor s ability to supply various items. For example different items offered for sale by a merchant may have different manufacturer lead times. Holding quantities of such items as inventory may enable a merchant to offer consistent availability of these items to customers despite the different lead times.

However in some circumstances holding inventory may present various costs or disadvantages to a merchant. For example inventory storage facilities may be expensive to provision and maintain particularly for smaller merchants who may not be able to efficiently and profitably distribute the fixed costs of such facilities across a limited quantity of inventory. Moreover should the need arise scaling an inventory system to accommodate increased demand or volume may be an expensive proposition requiring substantial investment in technology facilities and or staffing.

A merchant s holding of its own inventory may also present disadvantages to customers. As electronic commerce grows in popularity many merchants increasingly list their offerings along with other merchants via electronic marketplaces that provide a common interface through which customers may search for items and place orders. However if different merchants are ultimately responsible for fulfilling their own respective orders through such a marketplace the customer s ordering experience for a given item may vary considerably depending on the merchant from which the item is ordered. For example a merchant that has little skill or poor processes for order fulfillment may be slow to ship an item may ship the wrong item may deliver damaged goods or may otherwise create a negative customer experience. Such a negative experience may reflect not only on the merchant from which the customer ordered but also on other merchants in the electronic marketplace possibly decreasing customer confidence in the marketplace itself.

In addition individuals small merchants such as resale shops or other entities may have single units of items or small quantities of possibly heterogeneous items possibly but not necessarily used items which they wish to sell via an electronic commerce channel. Conventional electronic commerce channels that allow customers to list items for sale may require a separate listing process to list each item with the electronic commerce channel and require the selling customer to handle most or all aspects of shipping each sold item to the particular customer that purchases the item. For example if an individual wants to list twenty items for sale via an electronic commerce channel the individual may have to complete twenty different listing processes one to list each item and then the individual may potentially have to make as many as twenty separate trips to a carrier or delivery service drop off to ship the items to fulfill orders or requests for the items. The individual may also have to create shipping labels for each package shipped.

Various embodiments of a method and apparatus whereby inventory fulfillment services may be provided by a fulfillment services provider to customers who may be individuals or merchants and who have single units of items or small quantities of possibly heterogeneous items that they wish to sell via the inventory fulfillment services of the fulfillment services provider are described. In embodiments the process for listing items for sale via an electronic commerce channel may be simplified via a self service registration interface to an inventory management system and additional services may be provided to the customer via the self service registration interface that may reduce the effort required of the customer to take advantage of inventory fulfillment services offered by the fulfillment services provider. In one embodiment a fulfillment services provider via the fulfillment services registration interface may automatically generate shipping information for one or more possibly heterogeneous items specified by a listing customer. The shipping information may include a packing slip that lists or indicates the one or more possibly heterogeneous items specified by the listing customer to be sent to the fulfillment services provider carried in inventory of the fulfillment services provider offered for sale and sold to purchasing customer s on behalf of the listing customer. The shipping information may also include one or more package labels that specify at least the ship from and ship to addresses for the shipment.

A listing customer may have a collection of one or more items to be sold. The listing customer may generate a list of the items via the fulfillment services registration interface. Shipping information may be generated and provided to the listing customer and the collection of items may be shipped as one shipment to and listed for sale by the fulfillment services provider. Two or more of the items in a listing customer s collection of items may be units of the same item for example two or more copies of a book or a CD. A listing customer s collection of items may include two or more heterogeneous items. Heterogeneous as used herein in relation to two or more items that may be listed by a listing customer includes the notion of two or more different items in a category of item e.g. two different books three different CDs etc. and the notion of two or more items in different categories e.g. books CDs DVDs personal electronic devices video games appliances etc. . Heterogeneous items may also include two or more similar but not identical items e.g. two copies of a book with different covers an earlier and later edition of the same book two different versions of a CD two electronic devices from different generations of the device etc. or even two or more units of the same item in different conditions e.g. a used book in poor condition and a copy of the same version of the book in like new condition several copies of a CD in varying conditions etc. 

In one embodiment the listing customer is the seller of record for all items listed for sale with the fulfillment services provider. In one embodiment any fees or charges to the listing customer may be backloaded. In other words the listing customer may not be charged for any fees related to a particular item until the item is sold. In one embodiment a listing period may be specified for example 90 days for which items listed by a listing customer with the fulfillment services provider will be carried. If an item does not sell within that period one or more options for disposal of the item may be provided to the listing customer. In one embodiment for any item that has not sold by the end of the listing period the fulfillment services provider may begin charging stocking and possibly other applicable inventory fulfillment services fees to the customer. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may reduce the sale price of an item that has not sold within the listing period. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may after the listing period for an item expires without the item being sold reduce the sale price of the item by some amount e.g. 10 and then reduce the price again after a period e.g. two days or a week if the item does not sell at that price and continue periodically or aperiodically reducing the price until the item sells or if the item does not sell otherwise disposing of the item. In one embodiment for any item that has not sold by the end of the listing period the fulfillment services provider may liquidate the item for example by selling the item to a wholesaler at a wholesale price. Other options for disposal are possible.

In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may determine whether a listing customer s request to receive inventory fulfillment services for one or more items satisfies one or more listing rules of the fulfillment services provider. In one embodiment to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may determine that a sales price specified by the customer for the given item is within a suggested price range which may for example be determined from an evaluation of historical sales data. In one embodiment to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may estimate the listing customer s expected profit for the given item if the given item sells. In one embodiment the expected profit may be determined as the customer specified sale price for the item minus any expected inventory fulfillment services transaction costs or fees for the given item. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may reject a request to receive inventory fulfillment services for the given item if the determined profit for the given item if sold is less than a specified threshold. The specified threshold may be but is not necessarily zero. In one embodiment the listing customer may be provided with the opportunity to adjust the sale price of the item upwards if desired or to list a given item even though the expected profit is zero or negative if desired.

In other embodiments to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may filter the given items according to one or more other listing rules. For example the fulfillment services provider may choose not to accept out of date items items with poor sales history and or certain categories or types of items certain titles of various media products. In general the listing rules may be used to filter items that the fulfillment services provider will not accept according to any set of criteria that the fulfillment services provider requires or desires.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

One embodiment of a fulfillment center configured to store inventory items for customer order fulfillment is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment an enterprise includes a fulfillment center that in turn includes an inventory storage facility as well as an inventory management system . Storage facility may be configured to store an arbitrary number of inventory items . As described in greater detail below system may be configured to receive customer orders for various ones of items from one or more customers via one or more of an arbitrary number of different merchants . Additionally system may be configured to initiate and or coordinate actions resulting in the shipment of ordered items to corresponding customers .

Generally speaking fulfillment center may be configured to receive and store different kinds of items from various sources such as wholesalers distributors or merchants for example. Items may generally encompass any type of tangible object or substance that may be received for storage. For example and without limitation items may include media items e.g. books compact discs videotape and or DVDs electronic devices computers and related peripherals and equipment consumer or commercial appliances clothing prescription and or over the counter pharmaceuticals cosmetics food or other suitable items. It is noted that items may be stocked managed or dispensed in terms of discrete countable units or multiples of units such as packages cartons crates pallets or other suitable aggregations. Alternatively some items such as bulk products commodities etc. may be stored in continuous or arbitrarily divisible amounts that may not be inherently organized into countable units. Such items may be managed in terms of measurable quantities such as units of length area volume weight time duration or other dimensional properties characterized by units of measurement. Generally speaking a quantity of an item may refer to either a countable number of individual or aggregate units of an item or a measurable amount of an item as appropriate.

Items received at fulfillment center for storage may be stored within inventory storage facility which may include any suitable combination or arrangement of item storage structures. For example facility may include racks bins pallets or other types of storage apparatus arranged in a grid or other fashion. In some embodiments facility may include different types of storage suitable for items having special storage requirements. For example certain types of items may be perishable fragile or volatile and may require storage under controlled temperature atmospheric or other conditions. Correspondingly facility may include refrigerated or other types of storage areas configured to satisfy special environmental requirements of certain items . It is contemplated that in some embodiments items may be stored within facility in different configurations than in which they are received. For example units of items may be received in boxes on pallets or in other aggregate units and may be unpacked or otherwise disaggregated for storage as individual units within bins on shelves or in other storage structures within facility .

Inventory management system may generally be configured to track and control the status and movement of inventory items through fulfillment center . In one embodiment as described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of system may include computer accessible media configured to store instructions that are executable e.g. by a processor or computer system to detect events that relate to items and to generate or initiate actions in response to such events. For example system may detect events relating to the arrival of inventory items from a supplier or merchant and may responsively instruct an agent e.g. a mechanical agent or human agent to process the received items and store them appropriately within storage facility . Similarly system may be configured to detect orders for various items that may arrive from merchants on behalf of customers . Responsively system may be configured to instruct an agent to select the appropriate item s for a received order from storage facility and prepare the selected item s for shipping or other conveyance to a corresponding customer . In some embodiments whenever units of a given item are stored within or selected from storage facility system may update an indication corresponding to the given item to reflect its inventory status. For example such an indication may reflect the number of units currently stored within facility the number of units that have been selected from facility but that have not yet left fulfillment center the number of units of given item that are on order and or any other suitable item status information. System may also be configured to process events relating to the processing of damaged or defective items returns received from customers or other exceptional events.

Merchants may arrange to offer various ones of items in commerce to customers . Generally speaking an item may be offered in commerce by a merchant according to any suitable business model. For example an item may be offered in commerce on the basis of a sale rental lease auction barter credit licensing royalty or any other type of transaction. Merchants may offer items in commerce through any of a variety of channels. For example a given merchant may present offers of items via electronic commerce e commerce portals accessible by customers . Such e commerce offerings may variously include listing items via a web based entity e.g. a web site or page hosted by the given merchant and presented as an offering entity distinct from enterprise or listing items via a web based entity hosted by enterprise on behalf of the given merchant .

In some embodiments a merchant may list items via a general web based entity hosted by enterprise such as a marketplace or forum in which many merchants may list offerings. Generally speaking a marketplace e commerce channel may generally refer to a web based entity through which multiple merchants may offer items to customers via one or more web pages. For example a marketplace may be organized to present to customers one or more web pages listing the various merchants offering a particular item in commerce according to various terms e.g. price availability condition etc. . Alternatively a marketplace may be organized to present to customers one or more web pages corresponding to respective virtual storefronts of merchants where each storefront indicates the various offerings of a corresponding merchant . In some embodiments a marketplace may be implemented via a web services application programming interface API described below rather than as one or more web pages. For example catalog information ordering functions and other aspects of a marketplace may be implemented as web services functions that may be invoked by various parties to present items in commerce to customers . Other configurations of e commerce marketplaces are possible and contemplated.

A merchant s e commerce offerings may also include listing items via a third party web entity distinct from enterprise and the merchant such as a third party auction web entity. It is also contemplated that a merchant may present e commerce offerings through entities other than web based entities. For example a merchant may present such offerings through electronic mail electronic bulletin boards or other electronic channels.

In some embodiments merchants may also offer items in commerce to customers through non electronic channels such as catalog telephone or physical storefront channels for example. Alternatively some merchants may offer items in commerce through a combination of different channels. It is also noted that some merchants such as merchant may be affiliated with the enterprise that provides fulfillment services to merchants in general although in other embodiments enterprise may provide fulfillment services for items without operating as a merchant for those items.

Generally speaking customer s may include any entity that may place an order for one or more items via one or more merchants . For example a customer may include an individual institution corporation business organization or other entity. Customers may place orders with merchants via any suitable channel such as one of the e commerce channels described above or via a non electronic order channel. A customer may be an entity that is ultimately legally and or fiscally responsible for an order but need not be such an entity. Similarly a customer may or may not be the intended recipient of items associated with a given order. For example a customer may place an order for items on behalf of another entity that may bear liability for payment or may be the intended recipient. In some embodiments a customer may include multiple individuals or entities that consent to have their ordered items shipped together. For example a customer may correspond to a group of individuals in the same household or business.

After a given customer places an order for one or more items the order may be fulfilled. Generally speaking the fulfillment process may include selecting from storage the item s specified in the order packaging selected item s appropriately for the mode in which they will be conveyed to the customer or other intended recipient and conveying the package or packages to the recipient. For example selected item s may be packaged in one or more boxes envelopes or other types of containers along with protective material promotional materials e.g. advertising leaflets or brochures a packing slip or invoice. The packing container may then be sealed appropriately labeled and tendered to a common carrier e.g. the United States Postal Service or another carrier or another type of carrier or delivery service for delivery to the intended recipient.

As shown in the embodiment of fulfillment center may be configured to offer fulfillment services to a variety of merchants that may be internal or external to the enterprise associated with fulfillment center . In general fulfillment services may include any actions relating to the storage and processing of items within fulfillment center as well as the fulfillment of specific customer orders for various ones of items . For example fulfillment services may include those tasks involved in receiving items into inventory such as taking physical receipt of units or quantities of items examining and or evaluating the condition of received items unpacking or repackaging items if necessary and storing items within storage facility . Fulfillment services may also include selecting or picking items from storage facility in response to a customer order as well as the packaging and shipping tasks described above. In some embodiments fulfillment services may include other tasks undertaken on behalf of a merchant such as inspecting or monitoring the quantity and or condition of items while stored in storage facility receiving and processing items returned from customers processing and disposing of items that are unmarketable for various reasons e.g. items that are surplus damaged expired spoiled etc. engaging in customer service activities e.g. responding to complaints inquiries etc. with customers or other types of tasks. Embodiments of fulfillment center configured to provide fulfillment services to merchants may also be referred to as fulfillment services providers.

In some instances fulfillment center may provide fulfillment services to merchants with greater economies of scale than if merchants were to perform their own fulfillment services. For example the incremental cost of providing a square foot of storage area in a large fulfillment center e.g. one comprising hundreds of thousands of square feet of storage area may be significantly lower than the cost incurred by a small merchant which may have limited space for storage or may be forced by local market conditions to retain more space than required for that merchant s inventory. Similarly fulfillment center may implement sophisticated inventory tracking and management techniques that might be costly and cumbersome to implement on the scale of an individual merchant such as RFID Radio Frequency Identification of items dynamic scheduling and optimization of item selection across multiple orders real time inventory tracking with respect to order receiving and shipping activity or other inventory management techniques. As described in greater detail below in some embodiments fulfillment center may be configured to consolidate a single customer s orders from several merchants which may realize additional economies of scale e.g. by reducing packaging item handling and shipping costs.

Arranging the provision of fulfillment services to various merchants may present challenges however. For example merchants may operate as distinct enterprises having methods and systems for inventory management and accounting that differ from one another as well as from enterprise . As a result merchants and enterprise may lack a uniform way of identifying inventory items . For example a given merchant may identify and manage a particular item by that item s Universal Product Code UPC whereas the same item may be identified within fulfillment center by a proprietary unique identification number. Further merchants may wish to dynamically change the fulfillment services they receive for various items . For example a particular merchant may wish to expeditiously transition from performing its own fulfillment for an item to receiving fulfillment services for that item from fulfillment center or vice versa. If such a transition were to require manual approvals e.g. of the merchant s eligibility or the item s suitability for fulfillment services and or a manual integration of relevant aspects of the particular merchant s inventory and order management systems with those of fulfillment center the overhead of arranging for fulfillment services may significantly erode the savings or efficiencies provided by such services. For example if enterprise were condition processing of fulfillment services requests on manual lookup and entry of data provided by a merchant days or weeks might elapse.

In one embodiment fulfillment center may be configured to provide a registration interface through which a merchant may register to receive fulfillment services for one or more items where operation of the registration interface to process a request for fulfillment services does not require human intervention. For example the interface may provide an automated process through which a merchant may complete those tasks necessary to initiate fulfillment services for various items . As described in greater detail below in various embodiments such an automated process may include evaluating the credentials of a merchant e.g. whether the merchant is known to enterprise in good financial status etc. assessing the items for which fulfillment services have been requested e.g. whether the items qualify for the requested services and providing the requesting merchant with the information needed to complete the fulfillment services request e.g. providing labels to be applied to items for fulfillment center inventory control shipping labels for shipping items to a fulfillment center instructions status reports or other information . The fulfillment center s portion of each of these tasks may be performed automatically and without human intervention as detailed below.

One embodiment of a fulfillment services registration interface is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment inventory management system of fulfillment center is shown to include a registration interface configured to interact with a database . In one embodiment registration interface may be configured to present an interface through which a given merchant may specify a request for fulfillment services enter data related to the requested services and engage in those processing actions deemed necessary by enterprise for given merchant to receive the requested services. For example in one embodiment interface may be configured to present to a merchant one or more web pages accessible via the public Internet or a private intranet e.g. a private network maintained by or on behalf of enterprise requiring some level of authentication or secured connection for access . Such a web page may include fillable forms menus executable applications e.g. applications coded in Java Javascript or another language suitable for web based execution or other web based interface elements.

In another embodiment interface may be configured to present a proprietary or non web based registration interface to merchants . For example interface may be accessible through a dialup or non web based Internet connection such as via a terminal emulation program such as telnet or via another type of standard or proprietary application suitable for transmitting information between a merchant and inventory management system . In yet another embodiment interface may include a web services interface for merchant fulfillment services registration as described in greater detail below. In some embodiments interface may include other types or modes of interface implementations including various combinations of the aforementioned techniques configured for communicating with merchants to perform activities related to registering for or managing use of fulfillment services.

In the illustrated embodiment interface may be configured to store fulfillment services registration data received from merchants or other data that is derived from or produced as a result of or in relation to a merchant s fulfillment services registration activity within database . Generally speaking database may include any suitable type of application or data structure that may be configured as a persistent data repository. For example database may be configured as a relational database that includes one or more tables of columns and rows and that may be searched or queried according to a query language such as a version of Structured Query Language SQL . Alternatively database may be configured as a structured data store that includes data records formatted according to a markup language such as a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML . In other embodiments database may be implemented using one or more arbitrarily or minimally structured data files managed and accessible through any suitable type of application.

Database may generally be configured to store any kind of data related to merchants items and or requests for fulfillment services in various stages of processing. For example database may be configured to store identifying information about merchants such as names and address of merchant personnel or departments merchant billing and shipping address information merchant banking or other financial information or other identifying information. Database may also be configured to store current and or historical status information regarding inventory or sales transactions of merchants such as a merchant s order history payment history the status of a merchant s inventory items within fulfillment center the status of any pending fulfillment services requests for a merchant or other types of status information. In some embodiments database may also be configured to store identifier mapping information for items . For example database may store records that relate a given merchant s identifier for a particular item e.g. a merchant s stock keeping unit SKU identifier with an identifier that may be specific to enterprise or to fulfillment center . Such mapping information may be used for example to associate a merchant s fulfillment services request

It is noted that database need not be integrated within inventory management system or even within fulfillment center . In some embodiments merchant and or inventory data may be stored in a number of different data stores distributed throughout enterprise . For example merchant financial data may be stored in an accounting database associated with an accounting department of enterprise that may be distinct from a fulfillment department such as fulfillment center . Similarly in some embodiments interface may be configured to interact with a variety of systems applications or databases within or external to inventory management system in addition to or instead of database .

One embodiment of a method through which a fulfillment services provider or simply provider such as fulfillment center may receive and process a request for inventory fulfillment services from a merchant is illustrated in . It is contemplated that in various embodiments the illustrated method or a suitable variant thereof may be implemented via computer executed instructions stored on a computer accessible medium as described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of or via dedicated computing hardware devices that may be state dependent e.g. state machines but which may not execute discrete instructions per se. It is further contemplated that in some embodiments some or all of the illustrated method may be implemented by decision logic included within interface while in other embodiments interface may be configured to relay merchant state information e.g. inputs or outputs of the fulfillment services registration process to and from other executable components systems or devices within inventory management system or fulfillment center . In such other embodiments some or all of the illustrated method may be implemented by components other than interface . It is noted that in various embodiments a merchant may submit a single fulfillment services request applicable to multiple different items or may submit respective requests for each of several items . Although examples discussed hereinafter may refer to processing of a single item it is understood that the method may be applicable to the concurrent fulfillment services request processing of multiple different items .

In the illustrated embodiment operation begins in block where a request for inventory fulfillment services is received by a fulfillment services provider from a merchant . For example such a request may be received via one embodiment of registration interface as a result of a merchant signing into a secure web page using a merchant identifier and an appropriate credential e.g. a login name and password or any other suitable type of credential and subsequently selecting an option to request fulfillment services e.g. a link button etc. displayed via the secure web page. In other embodiments such a request may be received via web services calls or via a mode of communication that does not employ web based protocols.

Upon receiving a fulfillment services request from a merchant the provider may determine whether the requesting merchant is eligible to receive fulfillment services block . In some embodiments merchant eligibility for fulfillment services may depend on the merchant s historical behavior. For example the current status or history of the merchant s prior transactions with the provider or another enterprise may be examined to determine whether the merchant has engaged in fraudulent or questionable transactions with customers vendors the provider or other parties. In some embodiments a merchant s creditworthiness customer service history or any other data related to the merchant or in some cases related to fiscally responsible entities or individuals associated with the merchant such as guarantors principals executives etc. may be taken into account when considering a merchant s eligibility for fulfillment services and such data may include data obtained from third parties such as credit reporting agencies business references customers and the like.

In various embodiments the provider may implement decision models of varying complexity taking into account any of the foregoing types of merchant data or other types not specifically mentioned in order to render a decision as to whether the requesting merchant is eligible for fulfillment services. For example in one embodiment any history of fraudulent behavior may disqualify a merchant whereas in other embodiments a more sophisticated risk analysis model may consider such behavior in the context of other data points. It is contemplated that in some embodiments eligibility for fulfillment services may depend on the type or volume of services requested. For example a merchant having little history or questionable history may be allowed access to fulfillment services on a trial or probationary basis with such access restricted to certain types quantities or value of items or restricted on some other basis.

If the requesting merchant is determined to be ineligible for fulfillment services the merchant may be prevented from proceeding with automated fulfillment services request processing block . In some embodiments the merchant may be directed to contact a fulfillment services agent e.g. a customer service representative for further information or assistance in processing the fulfillment services request for example to receive an explanation of the reasons for disqualification and of actions that may be taken if any to remedy the situation.

If the requesting merchant is determined to be eligible for fulfillment services the provider may determine whether the merchant is already registered to receive fulfillment services block . In one embodiment determining a merchant s registration status may include determining whether the merchant has supplied data that the provider deems necessary to perform fulfillment services on behalf of the merchant. For example registration may be contingent upon a merchant agreeing e.g. electronically or in writing to a fulfillment services participation agreement that details obligations and expectations of the provider and the merchant relating to fulfillment services such as the merchant s agreeing to abide by various financial procedural customer service or other policies . Registration may also be contingent upon a merchant providing sufficient identifying information as set forth below. In some embodiments determining whether a merchant is registered may include determining whether the merchant has previously registered for fulfillment services and if so assuming that the merchant is registered without checking each data item required of the merchant for registration. Also in some embodiments if the previous registration or any previous fulfillment services activity on behalf of the merchant occurred more than a threshold period of time prior to the current fulfillment services request the merchant may be required to provide some or all of the registration data once again. It is noted that in some embodiments determination of a merchant s registration status may occur prior to determination of the merchant s eligibility for fulfillment services.

If the requesting merchant is determined not to be registered the provider may request registration data from the merchant block . For example a fillable web form or other request for merchant input may be provided or displayed to the merchant via interface . Requested input may include information such as the merchant s name phone number address bank name bank routing number and account number taxpayer identification information and or any other suitable information. Additionally if necessary or appropriate a participation agreement may be conveyed to the merchant via interface along with a solicitation for the merchant to expressly accept or refuse the agreement. The merchant may then enter or supply the requested data in a manner suitable to the mode in which the request was delivered e.g. by filling out a web based form.

The provider may then attempt to validate the registration data provided by the merchant block . For example the provider may check to see that all required data has been provided and may corroborate certain data items with third parties e.g. by checking contact or banking information against a public address database or the specified bank respectively. The provider may also check to see whether the merchant indicated acceptance of the participation agreement if applicable. If any portion of the provided data fails to validate the merchant may request that the merchant reenter the data or may terminate automated fulfillment services request processing and request that the merchant contact an agent for further assistance block .

If the provided data is valid or the merchant is determined to have already registered the provider may request identifying information associated with the item s for which the merchant is requesting fulfillment services block . For example interface may display another web based form through which the merchant may provide item identifying information. In some embodiments item identifying information may be supplied along with the initial request for fulfillment services and a separate request for this information may not be made by the provider. Also in some embodiments a merchant may specify a quantity of the item for which fulfillment services are requested in addition to item identifying information.

The provider may then determine whether it has sufficient information about the item as identified by the requesting merchant to process the fulfillment services request for that item block . In one embodiment the provider may make this determination by first determining whether the item is known to the provider e.g. whether the provider has some record of information associated with the item . For example as noted previously an item may be identified by a merchant in a different manner than by fulfillment center . In one embodiment the merchant may provide the merchant s own unique identifier such as a merchant specified SKU identifier as identifying information for an item . In response the provider may determine whether there exists a mapping from the merchant s unique identifier to an identifier known to the provider for example by querying database using the merchant s identifier to determine whether a corresponding record includes the provider s identifier. In another embodiment when supplying identifying information for an item the requesting merchant may provide an identifier known to the provider instead of or in addition to a merchant specified identifier.

If the provider has insufficient information to process the fulfillment services request for the identified item the provider may solicit additional information from the merchant block . For example if the provider could not locate a record for item on the basis of a merchant specific identifier such as a merchant s SKU the provider may solicit the requesting merchant for a provider specific identifier or a generic identifier such as a Universal Product Code identifier if available. In some embodiments the provider may provide item search capabilities via interface in order to allow a requesting merchant to determine whether the item for which fulfillment services have been requested is known to the provider. For example the provider may provide a keyword search feature to allow the requesting merchant to enter keywords relevant to an item . Alternatively the provider may allow the requesting merchant to navigate a hierarchy of item categories to ascertain whether the item identified by the merchant is included in the hierarchy and in some embodiments to determine the most similar item in the hierarchy if the item is not included.

In some circumstances the provider may have no information corresponding to an item for which fulfillment services have been requested. For example the provider may never have provided fulfillment services for the item before either for the requesting merchant or any other merchant. In some embodiments the provider may be configured to request the necessary information in this case. For example the provider may request that the requesting merchant provide information such as item dimensions weight item type or class information e.g. according to a taxonomy or hierarchy defined by the provider item special characteristics e.g. whether the item is liquid perishable a hazardous material requires special handling or storage conditions etc. or any other information deemed necessary by the provider to identify the item to determine whether the item is eligible for fulfillment services and or to facilitate the provision of fulfillment services.

Once the provider has sufficient information about the identified item the provider may determine whether the item is eligible for the requested fulfillment services block . For example in one embodiment the provider may disallow fulfillment services for certain types of items such as hazardous items. In another embodiment a merchant may be restricted from requesting fulfillment services for certain items according to its participation agreement or fee structure current business relationship with the provider the current state of the merchant s other inventory with respect to the provider or any other suitable criterion. For example a merchant may contract with a provider to receive fulfillment services for a certain quantity of an item over a given period of time such that fulfillment requests for additional quantities of that item may be disallowed.

If the fulfillment services request cannot be processed owing to ineligibility of the item the provider may notify the requesting merchant via interface and automated fulfillment services request processing may terminate block . Otherwise the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to convey some specified quantity of item to the provider such as a quantity that may have been specified by the requesting merchant in or subsequent to the request for fulfillment services block .

In one embodiment in instructing the merchant to convey item the provider may provide the requesting merchant with data to be used by the merchant to identify individual units of item . For example the provider may convey a document file to the merchant via interface such as a Portable Document Format PDF file or another type of document file which includes alphanumeric bar code or other information indicative of identifying information that may be used to manage units of the item within fulfillment center . In various embodiments such identifying information may uniquely identify each individual unit of the item may generically identify the units as being identical instances of the kind or type of item or may combine information generic to the item with information specific to a particular unit of the item . For example the provided identifying information may include a serial number that is unique to a particular unit of an item a UPC or similar product code that is generic to all units of an item or a code that identifies the product type of item as well as the condition of a particular unit e.g. new used damaged etc. . Any suitable type or combination of identifying information may be employed. The provided document may be used to generate labels to be respectively affixed to individual units of item . For example the requesting merchant may upon receiving the document print its contents on label stock and affix the labels to units of item as appropriate.

The provider may also provide the requesting merchant with data to be used by the merchant to convey item to the provider. In one embodiment the provider may convey a document file such as a PDF document or other type of document file to the merchant via interface that includes data indicative of shipping information. For example the document file may include address information bar code data and or other data that may be used to generate a shipping label. Such a shipping label may be a generic shipping label suitable for tendering a package to any type of carrier. Alternatively the shipping label data may be tailored to a particular carrier for example by including bar code geographic code or other routing or handling information specific to the particular carrier. In some embodiments shipping information data may be included in the same document used to convey unit identifying information as described above while in other embodiments shipping information data may be conveyed in a separate document. It is noted that in various embodiments the provider may convey unit identifying information shipping information both or neither to the requesting merchant .

In some embodiments shipping related data provided to the requesting merchant may reflect the number of discrete shipments or packages expected from the requesting merchant . For example the merchant may indicate that the specified quantity of item for which fulfillment services have been requested may be divided among a certain number of packages. Alternatively the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to divide the specified quantity among shipments in a particular way. In some embodiments the shipping data provided to the requesting merchant in the case of multiple shipments or packages of a particular item may uniquely identify each shipment or package for example by including bar code or other information to be included on shipping labels generated from the shipping data. It is contemplated that in some embodiments the provider may instruct the requesting merchant to ship different quantities of item to different fulfillment centers and shipping data conveyed to the requesting merchant may reflect this distribution. For example the provider may specify the distribution according to available storage resources at various fulfillment centers . Alternatively the provider or the requesting merchant may wish to ensure a particular geographical distribution of item among different fulfillment centers for example to satisfy expected patterns of demand.

In many cases upon receiving instructions to convey the specified quantity of item to the provider the requesting merchant may appropriately package and ship item to the provider according to the received instructions. For example the requesting merchant may print item labels and affix them to units of item pack the units in one or more packages for shipment print shipping labels and affix them to the package s and tender the package s to a shipper or carrier for shipment to the provider. However the requesting merchant need not be in actual possession of item . In some embodiments the requesting merchant may arrange with a third party such as a manufacturer distributor vendor or other type of supplier to convey the specified quantity of item to the provider. For example the requesting merchant may forward item identifying and or shipping information to the third party which may arrange to convey item to the provider on behalf of the requesting merchant .

Subsequent to instructing the requesting merchant to convey the specified quantity of item the provider may receive item block and store item into inventory block . For example one or more packages including units of item may arrive at fulfillment center . In various embodiments the package s may be scanned unpacked inspected and or otherwise processed and units of item may be stored within storage facility . Inventory management system may also be appropriately updated to reflect the status of received units of item and in some embodiments the requesting merchant may be notified that item is available for fulfillment.

In some embodiments the provider may receive a notification of shipment from the requesting merchant before item arrives. In some such embodiments either the provider or the requesting merchant may update an indication of availability of item in response to such a notification. For example the requesting merchant may offer item in commerce via an e commerce channel maintained by enterprise such as a web based storefront or a marketplace. In response to a notification of shipment received from the requesting merchant enterprise may update an offering display or listing of item to indicate an expected lead time or other indication of availability taking into account factors such as expected time in transit from the requesting merchant to the provider processing time to receive and store item at the provider and or other factors affecting availability of item .

It is noted that in some embodiments a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center may operate to allow a merchant to request fulfillment services for an item to conduct those actions necessary to validate the eligibility of the merchant and the item for the requested services and to convey to the merchant the data necessary for the merchant to prepare item for the requested services and convey item to the provider. In particular it is noted that fulfillment center may perform these tasks in an entirely automated manner such that if the requesting merchant and the item satisfy the provider s eligibility requirements the fulfillment services request may be processed without human intervention. For example by interacting with fulfillment center via registration interface a merchant may complete a fulfillment services request for an item ship item to fulfillment center and begin relaying customer orders for item to fulfillment center for fulfillment as detailed below without depending on the actions of an agent of fulfillment center external to registration interface . Such an automated fulfillment services request processing system may also be referred to as a self service system in that a merchant may interact with the system entirely on its own initiative.

In one embodiment in addition to providing a self service registration interface through which merchants may request inventory fulfillment services for various items a fulfillment services provider may provide a management interface through which merchants may manage various aspects of the fulfillment services applicable to their items . illustrates an embodiment of inventory management system similar to that of with the addition of a management interface that may be configured to interact with database as well as merchant .

Management interface may be configured to present an interface through which a given merchant may perform any of a variety of functions described below with respect to items for which the given merchant may have previously requested fulfillment services e.g. via registration interface . Like registration interface in one embodiment management interface may be configured to present to a merchant one or more web pages accessible via the public Internet or a private intranet e.g. a private network maintained by or on behalf of enterprise requiring some level of authentication or secured connection for access . Such a web page may include fillable forms menus executable applications e.g. applications coded in Java Javascript or another language suitable for web based execution or other web based interface elements. In other embodiments management interface may be configured to present a non web based management interface or a web services based management interface to merchants in a manner similar to that described above with respect to registration interface .

In some embodiments it is contemplated that both registration interface and management interface may be implemented as distinct or integrated portions of a web based fulfillment services portal. For example functionality associated with both registration interface and management interface may be implemented via respective web pages or groups of web pages presented to merchants as aspects of a centralized fulfillment services website. Alternatively such functionality may be presented through respective sets of web services calls presented to merchants as a general web services API for registration for and management of fulfillment services.

As described above in one embodiment after a merchant has registered an item for fulfillment services the item may be placed under the physical custody and management of fulfillment center . In such an embodiment the supply chain for items may be extended to encompass items in transit from the merchant to fulfillment center and from fulfillment center to customers in addition to the status of items within fulfillment center . In some cases the general supply chain for an item may also account for the reverse supply chain reflecting the flow of returned units from customers and or units removed from fulfillment center and conveyed back to a merchant . In some embodiments management interface may be configured to provide a given merchant with visibility into the status of the general supply chain with respect to its registered items . For example management interface may provide an indication or display of the quantity of units of a given item that are in transit between given merchant fulfillment center and or customers at any given time e.g. including tracking information for units in transit if available or applicable .

In one embodiment management interface may also provide an indication of the status of units of given item held in inventory within fulfillment center such as identifying units committed to orders but not yet picked or shipped identifying units that are spoiled or damaged or identifying any other relevant inventory status information. In some embodiments management interface may provide to a merchant explanatory information regarding problems or exceptions that arise in the supply chain for an item . For example if units of an item were damaged upon arrival at fulfillment center from merchant or were otherwise in a state or condition different from that expected from or indicated by merchant when fulfillment services were requested for the units e.g. used rather than new condition management interface may be configured to display such information to merchant and allow the merchant to specify an action to resolve the problem. For example management interface may allow the merchant to instruct that damaged items be disposed of or returned to the merchant to allow the merchant to arrange to convey additional units to fulfillment center e.g. to cover outstanding orders or to take another suitable action. More generally management interface may allow merchant to request on its own initiative that units of an item be withdrawn from inventory e.g. for return to merchant repositioned among different fulfillment centers or disposed of.

Generally speaking management interface may be configured to provide any type of function suitable for monitoring or altering the status of a given item within the extended supply chain encompassing a merchant fulfillment center and customers . In some embodiments the supply chain and management interface functionality may be extended to other third parties such as manufacturers distributors wholesalers or other parties that may be involved in transactions pertaining to given item .

In other embodiments management interface may be configured to provide functions that may not be directly related to supply chain monitoring or management. In one embodiment management interface may be configured to provide an interface through which a merchant may receive notice of customer service issues raised on behalf of customers and to participate in their resolution. For example inventory management system may be configured to receive reports of customer service issues raised with respect to particular orders and to identify the merchant s associated with those orders or specific items included in the orders . System may then direct such customer service reports associated with a given merchant to an inbox forum or other repository accessible by the given merchant via management interface . Alternatively management interface may forward such reports directly to the given merchant for example via email. In response to a given report the given merchant may participate in resolving the issue via management interface for example by arranging for an item to be returned or replaced arranging for a refund or credit to be issued to a customer or indicating another suitable action.

As mentioned previously a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center of enterprise may perform fulfillment services for a variety of items offered in commerce by a number of different merchants . A merchant may request such services via a self service registration interface as described above with respect to .

Once a merchant has arranged to receive fulfillment services for an item from a provider the provider may proceed to fulfill customer orders. In one embodiment a customer may place an order for an item directly with a merchant via a channel through which the merchant offers the item in commerce e.g. through e commerce or other types of channels as described above . In one such embodiment customer orders may be conveyed to fulfillment center from a merchant via inventory management system either via interface or via a different interface configured for order processing. In other embodiments customer orders may be conveyed to fulfillment center through a third party. For example a merchant may present its own order entry interface to customers and assume responsibility for conveying the order to fulfillment center for fulfillment. Alternatively a merchant may arrange for enterprise to host a commerce channel including an order entry interface on behalf of the merchant such that the merchant may not be directly involved in receiving and processing the order but may be fiscally and or legally responsible for the order.

In some circumstances a given customer may place an order for two or more different items offered in commerce by different respective merchants . For example the given customer may place separate orders with each one of the merchants ordering a first item or group of items from a first merchant a second item or group of items from a second merchant and so on in any suitable combination. Alternatively the given customer may place one or more orders via an e commerce channel that allows the given customer to concurrently view the offerings of more than one merchant . For example the given customer may use a virtual shopping cart into which items offered by different merchants can be placed for order processing. Such a shopping cart may allow the given customer s item selections for a particular order to persist across different e commerce channels. For example the contents of a customer s shopping cart may persist as the customer browses from one merchant s web site or listing page to a channel associated with another merchant . In some embodiments a virtual shopping cart may simplify the customer s ordering experience for example by allowing a customer to submit one payment transaction for all items in the cart rather than submitting separate payment transactions for each merchant associated with those items. A virtual shopping cart may also facilitate identification of opportunities to consolidate items ordered from multiple different merchants by a given customer as described in greater detail below.

In a conventional model of order fulfillment items ordered from different merchants would be fulfilled separately which may increase overall costs of fulfillment. For example packaging and shipping a group of items separately may cost more than packaging and shipping those items together. However in some embodiments a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center may be configured to consolidate items ordered by a single customer from multiple merchants such that at least some items ordered from different merchants are packaged and shipped as a single shipment while each merchant remains the merchant of record for its respective item . In shipping certain items together costs of fulfillment may be reduced and the resulting savings passed along to the customer or retained as profit by merchants and or enterprise . At the same time each merchant may remain the merchant of record for items it offers in commerce retaining the fiscal legal and or other obligations and benefits associated therewith. That is although the fulfillment services provider may have physical custody of items for which it provides fulfillment services on behalf of merchants the provider may simply function as an intermediary rather than a principal in transactions between merchants and customers . In various embodiments the role of the provider in fulfilling an order may or may not be visible to a customer .

One embodiment of a method of fulfilling orders for items on behalf of a number of different merchants is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where a fulfillment services provider such as fulfillment center receives one or more orders placed by a customer for at least two different items offered in commerce by different respective merchants . In some embodiments one or more of the merchants may have requested fulfillment services for its corresponding ordered item via a self services fulfillment services interface such as interface as described above with respect to . As described previously the order s may be received from merchants directly from the customer or via a third party. In embodiments where a virtual shopping cart is employed the relationship among the different items the different merchants and the ordering customer may be explicit or implicit in the data records generated as a result of processing the virtual shopping cart contents. For example the virtual shopping cart may assign a common order identifier to each item that forms a component of the customer s order which may facilitate the provider s combining of items into shipments as described below.

In some embodiments if multiple distinct orders are received from a single customer either from the same or different merchants the orders may be linked by the provider for example on the basis of a common customer identifier or a common order identifier that may be coordinated among merchants and the provider. Once identified as linked or related the multiple orders may be processed as a single order for the fulfillment processes described below to the extent possible. In some such embodiments the provider may only link orders that are placed or received within a given interval of time such as orders placed within one hour one day etc. The interval may depend on the mode of delivery specified by the customer. For example if a customer requests expedited shipping for a given order the interval of time for linking the given order to other orders may be relatively short to prevent delay in shipping the given order.

Subsequent to receiving the order s the specified items may be retrieved from storage block . For example in one embodiment customer orders may be processed by inventory management system to generate instructions for a human or mechanical picker to select the specified items from within inventory storage facility . It is contemplated that in some embodiments the specified items may be retrieved along with other items destined for unrelated orders. For example system may divide a number of orders up among multiple pickers in order to optimize picker efficiency particularly in instances where the items specified in a given order are widely distributed throughout fulfillment center .

At least two of the retrieved items corresponding to two different merchants may then be packaged block . For example the retrieved items may be delivered to a packaging area within fulfillment center to be appropriately packaged for shipment which may include selection of appropriate boxes or other enclosures insertion of protective packing materials and or inclusion of a packing slip invoice manifest promotional materials or other materials. In some embodiments if all items corresponding to the customer s order s are present in the fulfillment center they may be packaged as a single package for shipment or divided among multiple packages if cost item characteristics or shipper requirements dictate. In some cases fulfillment of ordered items may be distributed across different fulfillment centers for example depending on item availability.

Subsequently a package including at least two items corresponding to two different merchants may be shipped to the customer block . For example the package or packages may be tendered to a common carrier for shipping.

One embodiment of a packing slip that may be included in a package fulfilled according to the method of is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment packing slip indicates that four items are included within a shipment to the identified customer. Items A and B are indicated as having been offered by Merchant A. Item C is indicated as having been offered by Merchant B. Item D is indicated as having been offered by Merchant C. Thus Merchants A C are indicated as the merchants of record for their corresponding items A D yet the identified customer may receive items A D as a single shipment. Other situations involving different numbers of items and merchants are possible and contemplated. It is noted that various embodiments packing slip may correspond to a customer invoice billing document bill of lading or other document formatted to summarize order information.

It is further noted that in some embodiments packing slip may include multiple pages or components formatted in a variety of ways. For example items corresponding to different merchants of record may be indicated on different pages or sections of packing slip . In some cases packing slip may also include information or data in addition to information identifying merchants of record. For example such information may include terms and conditions that may apply to a given item or a transaction involving given item with respect to the merchant of record warranty information customer service information e.g. contact information for complaints returns exchanges etc. marketing or promotional information e.g. offers of future discounts coupons etc. or other types of information. In some embodiments the information included by packing slip may be customized or formatted to suit requirements or customs pertinent to the location of a customer. For example different documentation requirements may apply to transactions involving customers located in different legal jurisdictions e.g. states countries etc. . Packing slip may be appropriately formatted to take such requirements or other factors into account.

Consolidation of items ordered from multiple merchants into fewer shipments may result in lower fulfillment costs as noted above. For example by virtue of volume fulfillment center may have preferential access to discounted shipping rates relative to those available to individual merchants . Thus by allowing its items to be combined for shipment with items from another merchant a given merchant may enjoy lower costs of shipping and packaging. Moreover customer goodwill may be increased through more a timely and or convenient shopping experience. For example a customer s order may be completed more quickly through fulfillment from fulfillment center than if each merchant involved in the order fulfilled its portion separately. Moreover in addition to the possibility of reduced shipping costs to the customer fewer shipments may reduce customer inconvenience in taking delivery of items for example if the customer or the customer s agent must be present at the time of delivery.

It is noted that while order consolidation as described above may be sufficient to reduce fulfillment costs such consolidation may not be necessary to do so. In some circumstances the cost of fulfilling a single item through fulfillment center may be lower than if a merchant were to perform its own fulfillment. For example fulfillment center may benefit from greater economies of scale better infrastructure for inventory and supply chain management or other advantages that result in reduced fulfillment costs relative to a merchant performing its own fulfillment on a smaller scale.

In some instances a merchant s registration of a given item for fulfillment services via registration interface may render that item eligible for various services or promotional opportunities available to items fulfilled by fulfillment center such as a reduced cost or expedited shipping promotion in which the customer may receive free standard shipping free expedited shipping reduced cost standard or expedited shipping etc. Other promotional opportunities may include discounts against a current order credits against future orders loyalty program points discounts or credits with partner merchants or other types of promotions. Such eligibility may apply even to instances in which a customer orders a single unit of the given item without combining the given item with other items in the order. For example in one embodiment the eligibility for a promotional shipping arrangement or other promotional opportunity of items fulfilled by fulfillment center may depend on the total price of a customer s order. In such an embodiment if the given item has a price sufficient to meet the eligibility criterion the customer may receive promotional consideration upon ordering a single unit of the given item alone or in combination with other items fulfilled by fulfillment center .

In some embodiments the cost savings resulting from a merchant s self service registration for fulfillment services as described above and or the cost savings resulting from efficiencies of fulfillment center may be used to fund promotional opportunities offered to customers such as opportunities to receive reduced cost or expedited shipping item discounts or other types of promotions. In other cases such cost savings may be offered to merchants as a discount or credit against charges for fulfillment services as profit sharing or cooperative marketing funding or in another suitable fashion. Such savings may also be retained by enterprise or distributed among enterprise merchants and or customers in any combination of the foregoing ways.

As described previously various aspects of the methods and techniques described above e.g. various aspects of registration interface and or management interface may be presented to merchants or customers through the use of web pages. Generally speaking a web page may include data content as well as metadata content that may be configured to control the presentation of the data content. For example a web page may include text still images video content navigable links or other types of data content as well as metadata or instructions that may control the placement appearance interactive behavior or other presentation aspects of the data content.

Often the data and metadata contents of a web page may be coded in a language such as a version of Hypertext Markup Language HTML or any other suitable language for web based content implementation. Web page contents may be conveyed from a content source such as a web host implemented by or on behalf of fulfillment center or enterprise to a client such as a merchant or a customer over a network e.g. the Internet or a private network using a suitable transport protocol such as a version of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP for example. The contents may then be interpreted or processed as indicated by the coding language and metadata content by a suitable client application such as a web browser. Some exemplary types of web browsers include but are not limited to Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox and Opera . In addition to presenting the web page to a client the web browser may also collect and process input data from the client. For example the browser may detect the selection or activation of navigable links menu items buttons or other types of input devices that may be presented to a client and may operate in response to such selection or activation by conveying data back to the content source or another entity or system navigating to a different content source or performing another suitable action.

One embodiment of a generic web page is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment a browser window is shown to include web page . Among the various types of content included in web page are text content image content input features and navigable links although in other embodiments web page may include more or fewer types of content in various combinations including types not specifically enumerated above. Although the various content types are illustrated as segregated features they may be interspersed or combined in any suitable fashion according to the capabilities of the browser and language used to implement web page . In one embodiment browser window may be generated and managed by a web browser such as those mentioned above.

In one embodiment the content and placement of various content features of web page may be generated for example by or on behalf of interface to implement a web page through which a merchant may invoke the self service fulfillment services registration process described above with respect to . For example text content image content and input features may be configured to present a fulfillment service provider s request for input data to a merchant and to provide a technique for allowing merchant to enter and convey such data in response such as through presenting a form with fields in which data may be inserted by the merchant .

In another embodiment web page may be configured to implement an e commerce channel suitable for presenting offers in commerce of items to customers as well as other data potentially of interest to customers . For example a merchant may operate its own e commerce hosting facilities generating its own content and conveying it to customers via web pages . Alternatively a merchant may arrange with another party such as enterprise to present such web pages on its behalf. In another embodiment enterprise or another party may implement an e commerce marketplace such as described above via one or more web pages . For example a number of offers from various merchants for a particular item or for multiple items may be displayed to a customer via web page .

The above describes embodiments of a computer implemented system and method whereby a fulfillment services provider may perform inventory fulfillment services for a variety of items offered in commerce by a number of different merchants. A merchant may request such services via a self service registration interface as described above with respect to and . Generally the above described embodiments are applicable to merchants that have quantities of like items that they wish to sell via the fulfillment services provider and the provided inventory. However individuals small merchants such as resale shops or other entities may have single units of items or small quantities of possibly heterogeneous items possibly but not necessarily used items which they wish to sell via the inventory fulfillment services provided by a fulfillment services provider.

The following describes embodiments of a method and apparatus whereby inventory fulfillment services may be provided by a fulfillment services provider to customers who may be individuals or merchants and who have single units of items or small quantities of possibly heterogeneous items that they wish to sell via the inventory fulfillment services of the fulfillment services provider. In embodiments the general process for listing items for sale via a self service fulfillment services registration interface provided by an inventory management system of the fulfillment services provider may be simplified or streamlined and additional services may be provided to the customer via the self service registration interface that may reduce the effort required of the customer to take advantage of the inventory fulfillment services offered by the fulfillment services provider. In one embodiment a fulfillment services provider via a fulfillment services registration interface to an inventory management system may automatically generate shipping information for one or more items specified by a listing customer. The shipping information may include a shipping list or packing slip that lists one or more possibly heterogeneous items specified by the listing customer to be sent to the fulfillment services provider carried in inventory of the fulfillment services provider offered for sale and sold to purchasing customer s on behalf of the listing customer. The shipping information may also include one or more package labels that specify at least the ship from and ship to addresses for the shipment.

In one embodiment the listing customer is the seller of record for all items listed with the fulfillment services provider. Thus for tax or other purposes the fulfillment services provider is not the seller of record. In one embodiment any fees or charges to the listing customer may be backloaded. In other words the listing customer may not be charged for any fees related to a particular item until the item is sold. In one embodiment any inventory fulfillment services fees related to a particular item may be assessed to the listing customer by deducting the fees from the sale price of the item when and if sold. Thus the listing customer s profit for sale of a particular item may be the sale price minus any inventory fulfillment services fees for that particular item. Thus the listing customer may not pay any fees for listing items with the fulfillment services provider until the listed items are sold. In one embodiment after a specified period unsold items may be disposed of via one or more methods and the fulfillment services provider may assess appropriate fees for the disposal of unsold items. Alternatively the fulfillment services provider may begin assessing appropriate inventory fulfillment services fees for example inventory storage fees to the listing customer for unsold items after the specified period.

In one embodiment a listing period may be specified for example 90 days for which items listed by a listing customer with the fulfillment services provider will be carried. If an item does not sell within the listing period one of one or more disposal methods may be used to dispose of the item. In one embodiment if an item does not sell within the listing period one or more options for disposal of the item may be provided to the listing customer for example via email notification prior to or after the item s listing period expires. In one embodiment the listing customer may be allowed to select from two or more disposal options. In one embodiment the item may be returned to the listing customer. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may assess one or more fees to the listing customer for returned items. In one embodiment for any item that has not sold by the end of the listing period the fulfillment services provider may continue to carry the item but may begin charging stocking and possibly other applicable inventory fulfillment services fees to the listing customer. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may reduce the sale price of an item that has not sold within the listing period. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may after the listing period for an item expires without the item being sold reduce the sale price of the item by some amount e.g. 10 and then reduce the price again after a period e.g. two days or a week if the item does not sell at that price and may continue periodically or aperiodically reducing the price until the item sells or if the item does not sell otherwise disposing of the item. In one embodiment for any item that has not sold by the end of the listing period the fulfillment services provider may liquidate the item for example by selling the item to a wholesaler or some other entity at a wholesale price or alternatively by purchasing the item from the listing customer at a liquidation price that is lower than the listing customer s sale price. In one embodiment item that has not sold by the end of the listing period may be donated to a charity or other not for profit organization. Other disposal methods are possible. In one embodiment an item that has not sold during the listing period may be recycled or otherwise disposed of. If an item does not sell within the specified period the listing customer may be charged an appropriate amount to cover whatever disposal method is used for the item.

The term listing customer may be used herein to describe a customer of the fulfillment services provider that uses embodiments to list items for sale via the fulfillment services provider. A listing customer may for example be an individual person with a collection of one or more heterogeneous used items at home that they wish to sell or a small merchant that wish to sell units or small quantities of items but do not require all of the functionality described above or in general any entity with a collection of one or more possibly heterogeneous items that the entity desires to sell via the fulfillment services provider. The term purchasing customer may be used herein to describe a customer of the fulfillment services provider that purchases items possibly including items listed by a listing customer from the fulfillment services provider.

A listing customer may have a collection of one or more items to be sold. The listing customer may generate a list of the items via the fulfillment services registration interface. Shipping information may be generated and provided to the listing customer and the collection of items may be shipped as one shipment to and listed for sale by the fulfillment services provider. Two or more of the items in a listing customer s collection of items may be units of the same item for example two or more copies of a book or a CD. A listing customer s collection of items may include two or more heterogeneous items. Heterogeneous as used herein in relation to two or more items that may be listed by a listing customer includes the notion of two or more different items in a category of item e.g. two different books three different CDs etc. and the notion of two or more items in different categories e.g. books CDs DVDs personal electronic devices video games appliances etc. . Heterogeneous items may also include two or more similar but not identical items e.g. two copies of a book with different covers an earlier and later edition of the same book two different versions of a CD two electronic devices from different generations of the device etc. or even two or more units of the same item in different conditions e.g. a used book in poor condition and a copy of the same version of the book in like new condition several copies of a CD in varying conditions etc. 

In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may determine whether a listing customer s request to receive inventory fulfillment services for one or more items satisfies one or more listing rules of the fulfillment services provider. In one embodiment to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may determine that a sales price specified by the customer for the given item is within a suggested price range which may for example be determined from an evaluation of historical sales data. In one embodiment to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may estimate the listing customer s expected profit for the given item if the given item sells. In one embodiment the expected profit may be determined as the customer specified sale price for the item minus any expected inventory fulfillment services transaction costs or fees for the given item. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may reject a request to receive inventory fulfillment services for the given item if the determined profit for the given item if sold is less than a specified threshold. The specified threshold may be but is not necessarily zero. In one embodiment the listing customer may be provided with the opportunity to adjust the sale price of the item upwards if desired or to list a given item even though the expected profit is zero or negative if desired.

In other embodiments to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may filter the given items according to one or more other listing rules. For example the fulfillment services provider may choose not to accept out of date items items with poor sales history and or certain categories or types of items certain titles of various media products. In general the listing rules may be used to filter items that the fulfillment services provider will not accept according to any set of criteria that the fulfillment services provider requires or desires.

The listing customer may via the fulfillment services registration interface provide an item description e.g. an ISBN of a book a UPC or some other identifier a title or keyword etc. for each of one or more items . In one embodiment a search function may be provided via the fulfillment services registration interface that enables the listing customer to search for items in particular categories according to keyword or identifier and that allows the listing customer to select from a list of one or more items found via the search in a catalog of the fulfillment services provider a particular item description that best matches an item that the listing customer wishes to list for sale. A catalog of item descriptions may be maintained by the inventory management system in database . Note that database may include but is not limited to one or more databases data stores collections of files of various types one or more catalogs of item descriptions pricing information listing or other rules tables and lists web pages and associated web page data information and graphics textual and or graphical files for display via various interfaces historical information such as historical sales information or any other data and information that may be maintained and used by inventory management system . In other words database may include and therefore is representative of any and all data and information that may be used by inventory management system as described herein.

In one embodiment in response to the listing customer providing or selecting an item description for a particular item the inventory management system via the fulfillment services registration interface may provide a recommended price or price range at or within which the particular item may likely be sold within a reasonable period which may or may not be as long as the listing period e.g. 90 days in accordance with historical sales information for the particular item and or for similar items to the particular item gathered and maintained by the fulfillment services provider . In one embodiment the listing customer may via the fulfillment services registration interface specify a price at which the customer is willing to sell the item and may receive guidance via the fulfillment services registration interface regarding the likelihood of sale of the item at a particular sale price which may be determined from the historical sales information maintained by the fulfillment services provider . Once the listing customer has provided or selected a sale price for a particular item in one embodiment the inventory management system via the fulfillment services registration interface may provide to the listing customer an expected profit if that particular item sells at that price. The expected profit is the sale price minus any charges or fees assessed to the listing customer by the fulfillment services provider for providing the listing and inventory fulfillment services as described herein.

In various embodiments one or more fees or charges or combinations thereof may be assessed to the listing customer by the fulfillment services provider for providing the listing and inventory fulfillment services as described herein. As noted these fees and charges may be backloaded and thus not charged directly to the listing customer being assessed when item s listed by the customer are sold or after the listing period e.g. 90 days for the item s expires. For example the fulfillment services provider may charge one or more fees for selling an item listed via the fulfillment services registration interface . As an example for a media item e.g. a book CD DVD tape computer or video game etc. the fulfillment services provider may charge a commission on the price of an item. For example the fulfillment services provider may charge a listing customer 10 of the gross selling price a book as commission for selling the book. Different percentages may be charged as commission for different types categories and or price ranges of items .

In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may charge a flat fee for at least some categories of items for example for media items which allows the fulfillment services provider to at least collect some reasonable amount for items in spite of the possibly low sale price of the items. Listing customers may price items very low but via the flat fee the fulfillment services provider will still receive a set amount for each sale. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may assess a transaction fee for each item for example 0.99 for each sold item. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may assess order fulfillment fees. For example for something that sells under 25.00 and weighs less than a pound the listing customer may be charged approximately 0.90.

The handling of charges that may be assessed for shipping packages containing items from listing customer to the fulfillment services provider are described below.

A listing customer may thus lose money for sales of items that are priced below a certain point as one or more of the above fees may be deducted from the sale price at the time of sale and thus the sale price needs to be at least high enough to cover all applicable fees for the customer to break even and higher still for the customer to realize a profit. Thus one embodiment may provide one or more filters that may alert the customer on items for which the customer may or will lose money at the specified sale price. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may refuse to accept any items that the listing customer attempts to list at such a low price that the customer will lose money or break even at best. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may specify a profit threshold below which either the customer will be alerted or the fulfillment services provider will refuse to accept the listing of the item . The profit threshold may be but is not necessarily set to 0.00. The fulfillment services provider may for example choose to set the threshold higher than 0.00.

The listing customer may based on the pricing information provided via the fulfillment services registration interface select whether they want to ship the item to the fulfillment services provider and list the item for sale via a sales listing service for example via a sales listing services interface to the inventory management system provided by the fulfillment services provider or via another entity e.g. an electronic commerce channel whereby purchasing customers may browse for and select various items carried in inventory by the fulfillment services provider for purchase. For example if the expected profit is low or negative the listing customer may decide not to list the item or alternatively may choose to raise the price. In one embodiment the inventory management system may be configured to refuse to accept a listing of an item from a listing customer if the expected profit for sale of the item is below a specified threshold. For example the threshold may be but is not necessarily specified as zero indicating that the customer would make no money from sale of the item.

In one embodiment the inventory management system may include listing rules data and logic that may be used to filter the items for which an item description is provided by a listing customer so that particular items that the fulfillment services provider specifies are not to be accepted from listing customers may be rejected. For example the fulfillment services provider may not wish to carry books or other items that rarely sell out of date items such as older versions of textbooks and or older generation personal electronic devices that are unlikely to sell and so on. Other reasons for rejecting particular items may be specified by the fulfillment services provider . For example fulfillment services provider may reject any items not listed in its catalog. In one embodiment the inventory management system may include one or more editable lists or tables in which the fulfillment services provider may add or remove identifiers titles descriptions and so on of items that the fulfillment services provider will not accept. The listing rules and logic may be applied to these lists or tables and thus may be used to reject the listing of particular items specified in the lists or tables. If a customer enters a title identifier etc. for an item that the listing rules and logic determine the fulfillment services provider will not accept the listing customer may be informed via the fulfillment services registration interface that the item will not be accepted. As another example fulfillment services provider may via listing rules reject or refuse to accept listings for items that are or are suspected to be pirated or otherwise illegal our unauthorized copies of items for example pirated CDs or DVDs. As another example fulfillment services provider may via the listing rules refuse to accept at least some items not in their original carton or container for example CDs or DVDs not in the original jewel case or container. As another example some states or other municipalities may have or may enact laws or statutes for example intrastate or interstate transport and sale restrictions that control or restrict the sale of certain items and the fulfillment services provider may thus include listing rules to conform to legal restrictions.

In one embodiment the inventory management system of fulfillment services provider may via the fulfillment services registration interface provide a method and interface for a listing customer to add to the catalog of the fulfillment services provider one or more item descriptions for items that are not currently listed in the catalog. Using this method and interface the fulfillment services provider may accept listings for items that the fulfillment services provider does not typically carry and or listings for items that are not in the catalog. This method and interface may allow a listing customer to create custom items for example batches or sets of two or more items that the listing customer preferably wants to sell together as one item .

The above process may be completed by the listing customer for any number of items via the fulfillment services registration interface . Once all the items have been processed the listing customer may complete the listing via the fulfillment services registration interface . The inventory management system may then automatically generate shipping information for the listing customer . The shipping information may include a shipping list or packing slip that lists one or more possibly heterogeneous items specified by the listing customer to be sent to the fulfillment services provider carried in inventory of the fulfillment services provider e.g. in materials handling facility offered for sale and sold to purchasing customer s on behalf of the listing customer . The shipping information may also include one or more package labels that specify at least a ship from address the address from which the listing customer will ship a package containing the item s and a ship to address the address of the facility to which the package is to be shipped . The ship from address may be automatically pulled from account information of the listing customer or alternatively the listing customer may be allowed via the fulfillment services registration interface to select from among two or more ship from addresses and or to enter a different ship from address.

The inventory management system may provide the shipping information to the listing customer via the fulfillment services registration interface . The shipping information may for example be electronically transmitted to the listing customer in printable form. For example the shipping information may be provided to the listing customer on a printable web page via an email message as message text or as an attachment or via some other electronic communications channel. Alternatively shipping information may be mailed to the listing customer . In one embodiment either one or both of the packing slip and package label may include scannable or otherwise readable information that may be used by the carrier or delivery service and or by the fulfillment services provider upon receiving the package. In one embodiment shipping information provided to listing customer may also include information on one or more carriers or delivery services for example street addresses drop off locations phone numbers and or schedules that are available near the listing customer s address to deliver shipments to the ship to address specified by the fulfillment services provider .

The packing slip and each item may then be placed by the listing customer into a package the packing label may be applied to the outside of the package and the package may be shipped to a facility of the fulfillment services provider as specified by the package label such as materials handling facility which may for example be an order fulfillment center. Package may be any of a variety of shapes sizes and configurations of boxes envelopes or other types of containers appropriate for packing and shipping the item s of the listing customer to the fulfillment services provider.

In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may via the fulfillment services registration interface provide an option whereby the listing customer may select to have a packing container or box or alternatively a packing kit containing a box tape and possibly other packing accessories provided to the customer by the fulfillment services provider for shipping a specified list of one or more items to the fulfillment services provider . The fulfillment services provider may for example in response to the listing customer selecting the option to have a packing kit sent to the customer mail or otherwise ship a packing kit to the customer.

The items listed by the listing customer may be entered into and tracked by inventory management system as a pending incoming shipment from the listing customer . The shipment may be tracked by the scannable or otherwise readable information printed on the package label s .

Any of a variety of carriers or delivery services may be used to ship package to a facility of the fulfillment services provider as specified by the package label as long as package meets the shipping criteria e.g. weight limit size limit content restrictions etc. of the carrier or delivery service and the carrier or delivery service provides delivery from the shipping address to the destination address specified on the packing label of the package . For example the postal service or a package delivery service such as UPS may be used to ship package if package meets the criteria for allowable packages. The listing customer may deliver the package to a facility of the carrier or delivery service may have the package picked up and delivered to a facility of the carrier or delivery service e.g. by a courier service or alternatively the carrier or delivery service may pick the package up from the listing customer . In one embodiment the inventory management system may be configured to automatically notify the carrier or delivery service that the listing customer has a package to be picked up and may also notify the listing customer of a pickup time at which the carrier or delivery service is going to pick up the package .

In one embodiment the packing label may be specific to a particular carrier or delivery service for example the packing label may be a postal service label or a UPS label. In one embodiment shipping costs may be prepaid and the packing label may thus indicate that the shipping costs are prepaid. Alternatively the listing customer may pay shipping costs at the time of pickup by or delivery to the carrier or delivery service. If shipping costs are prepaid the listing customer may be charged by the fulfillment services provider up front for shipping or alternatively the shipping charges may be backloaded and thus not charged to the customer until the item s are sold or otherwise disposed of if the listing period e.g. 90 days for the item s expires. In one embodiment if there are two or more items the shipping charges may be spread across the items and thus a portion of the shipping charges may be deducted from the proceeds of selling each of the items if sold. If some items sell but one or more do not sell and are thus otherwise disposed of any remaining shipping charges may be applied to the listing customer along with any other fees for disposal of the item s .

While the above describes packing labeling and shipping all items in a single package a listing by a listing customer that includes two or more items may require two or more packages . In one embodiment during the listing process the listing customer may specify or alternatively the inventory management system may determine the number of packages required. In this embodiment the inventory management system may provide to the listing customer enough packing labels to label all packages .

The package s including the items listed by the customer may be delivered by the carrier or delivery service to a facility of the fulfillment services provider as specified by a ship to address on the package label for example to the exemplary materials handling facility shown in . Inventory management system may include interfaces to the facility e.g. to materials handling facility for directing operators in the facility in receiving incoming shipments and stocking received items to inventory storage in the facility and for directing operators in picking processing packing and shipping items to fulfill requests e.g. purchase orders received from purchasing customers for example via sales listing services interface . As noted above the items listed by the listing customer may be entered into and tracked by inventory management system as a pending incoming shipment from the listing customer . The shipment may be tracked by the scannable or otherwise readable information printed on the package label s . Once the package arrives at a receiving operation of the facility the package label on the package may be scanned which identifies to the inventory management system that the shipment from the listing customer has arrived.

In one embodiment at the facility the package may be opened and the packing slip may be removed. The packing slip may include scannable or otherwise readable information about the shipment. For example the packing slip may include a bar code that may be scanned to obtain information about the shipment. Alternatively or in addition the packing slip may include a list of items and quantities of items included in the shipment. An operator may scan or otherwise read the information from the packing slip. The scanned or read information may be communicated to inventory management system which may verify that the package includes all of the items listed by the customer . In one embodiment the operator may be instructed to print and apply materials handling facility item labels over existing barcodes or other marks on the received items or alternatively the inventory management system may automatically print the item labels for application by the operator. In one embodiment since the items are not regular inventory items but are instead items received for handling by the inventory fulfillment services the shipment of items may be received under a special purchase order type.

Optionally the operator may inspect the items contained in the package to ensure the quality of the items is as specified and also to inspect for any damage that may have occurred during shipping. In one embodiment some types of items such as CDs and DVDs may be inspected to insure that the items are not pirated or otherwise illegal copies of items and or inspected to insure that the items are acceptable for legal or other reasons to be carried in inventory of the materials handling facility and offered for sale via one or more electronic commerce channels. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may choose not to inspect items or to verify the quality of items provided by listing customers and may instead depend upon quality assessments performed by purchasing customers that purchase and receive items provided by listing customers to monitor the quality of items and to police listing customers . In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may through inventory management system provide one or more methods for purchasing customers to provide feedback on satisfaction with received items from listing customers and this feedback information may be provided to potential purchasing customers when deciding whether to purchase items from particular listing customers . Thus a listing customer that gets a bad reputation may have difficulty in selling items via the fulfillment services provider in the future.

Upon receiving the scanned or read information from the packing slip inventory management system may in response provide instructions as to the disposition of the items contained in the associated package in the facility. For example the inventory management system may provide instructions that direct the operator or some other operator to put or place each item into a particular location bin slot or other receptacle in inventory storage of the facility. In one embodiment the facility may have an area or areas in inventory storage that are specifically for stocking items received in packages from listing customers via customer interactions with fulfillment services registration interface as described above. Alternatively items received in packages from listing customers may be stocked with items received from other sources in the inventory storage. In one embodiment upon receiving the scanned or read information from the packing slip inventory management system may in response print item labels for each of the items in the package . The operator may then apply the printed item labels to each item and may forward the item s along with stocking instructions to be placed or put into inventory storage. The item labels applied to the item s may include information about the item s themselves e.g. proprietary item identifiers used by fulfillment services provider other item identifiers such as UPC or ISBN identifiers etc. and may also include information identifying the listing customer as the seller of record for the item s . For example the listing customer may have a unique customer account identifier issued to the listing customer upon registration to receive an account with the fulfillment services provider . The information may be included on an item label in a scannable or otherwise readable format such as a bar code.

In one embodiment sales listings for items provided by listing customer s may be provided via one or more electronic commerce channels which may or may not be provided by the fulfillment services provider . By way of example access via a sales listing services interface to an electronic commerce channel provided by the fulfillment services provider is described but it is to be noted that this example is not intended to be limiting and that other electronic commerce channels may be used to list items from listing customers for purchase by purchasing customers .

In one embodiment a purchasing customer may access a sales listing services interface to inventory management system for example using a web browser on purchasing customer system . Alternatively the purchasing customer may access inventory management system via a different electronic commerce channel for example an electronic commerce web site that accesses inventory management system via a web services interface. In one embodiment the purchasing customer may be required to register for an account with the fulfillment services provider before accessing the sales listing services interface . The purchasing customer may for example via the sales listing services interface browse various items in various categories offered for sale by the fulfillment services provider . Items presented to the purchasing customer for sale may include one or more items which were listed by listing customer and shipped to a facility of the fulfillment services provider as described above. Information on an item listed by listing customer may be displayed to the purchasing customer via sales listing services interface . This displayed information may include graphical and or textual information. For example a graphical image of the item may be displayed along with a title artist or writer if applicable item description and pricing information. Specifically the sale price specified by the listing customer may be displayed with the associated item . Information on one or more other items including one or more other same or similar items offered for sale by the fulfillment services provider by other listing customers or by other entities such as one of the merchants described above in reference to may be displayed via the sales listing services interface .

The purchasing customer may select for purchase for example via the sales listing services interface a particular item from the list of one or more items displayed. The item may be added to a virtual shopping cart for the customer . The purchasing customer may but does not necessarily further browse the offerings of the fulfillment services provider and may select one or more other items for purchase which are also added to the shopping cart for the customer for example via the sales listing services interface . When the purchasing customer is ready to check out the customer completes the purchase for example via interaction with the sales listing services interface . A purchase order for the item s selected by the customer may be generated by the inventory management system which may include one or more items listed by the listing customer and possibly one or more other items listed by other listing customers or by other entities including but not limited to the fulfillment services provider and selected for purchase by the purchasing customer . In one embodiment the listing customer is the seller of record for any item purchased by the purchasing customer on a purchase order. Other items on the purchase order if any will have other sellers of record.

In one embodiment rather than listing an item from a listing customer separately on a display presented to a purchasing customer for example via sales listing services interface the item may be included in a group of two or more similar items listed at the same price. For example the listing customer may list a particular used book to be sold at 5.00. One or more other listing customers may list the same used book at the same sale price or the same used book from other sources may be offered at the same price. As an example sales listing services interface may thus display something like Ten used copies of that book are listed at 5.00. Click here to select one of the used books at that price. Thus the purchasing customer may simply select to purchase any one of the books. Which particular book is selected and sent to the customer may be determined by any of a variety of methods that may be implemented by the inventory management system . For example a FIFO method may be used in which an item that has been listed the longest is the next item selected. Alternatively an item with the highest quality may be the next book selected. As another alternative an item may be selected using some randomizing algorithm. As an alternative to or in addition to the purchasing customer selecting any one of the used books essentially selecting the item at random from the point of view of the customer the sales listing services interface for example may provide a method for the purchasing customer to further browse the items for example to determine the condition of the used books as specified by the listing customers and may allow the purchasing customer to select a particular one of the used books or other types of items for purchase at that price. Note that books are used by way of example the same or similar methods may be used for other types or categories of items .

In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may through inventory management system provide one or more methods for purchasing customers to provide feedback on satisfaction with received items from listing customers and this feedback information may be provided to potential purchasing customers . Thus the good or bad reputation of listing customer may be made available to purchasing customer for consideration when the purchasing customer is deciding whether to purchase an item provided by the listing customer or possibly from some other source. Further if the purchasing customer purchases one or more items provided by listing customer the purchasing customer may choose to enter feedback on the purchase. Thus purchasing customer s may through feedback help to insure that the quality of merchandise provided by listing customers is as indicated by the listing customer . Listing customers that gather a bad reputation may have a hard time selling listed items in the future which may be a motivation for listing customers to be honest in any description of an item provided via the fulfillment services registration interface .

Once a purchase order including at least one of the items listed by the listing customer has been generated for the purchasing customer by inventory management system the purchase order may be sent to the facility e.g. materials handling facility of the fulfillment service provider to be processed. Note that the fulfillment service provider may have two or more facilities in which inventory is stored picked and processed for shipping and therefore it is possible that portions of a purchase order may be forwarded to and fulfilled at two or more such facilities. However for the sake of simplicity it will be assumed in this example that all items listed on the purchase order are fulfillable in facility .

At facility in an order fulfillment process an operator or operators may be tasked with picking items to fulfill the purchase order generated by purchasing customer . The operator s may then pick the item s from inventory storage to fulfill the purchase order including the one or more items that were listed for sale by the listing customer which may be picked from the location in inventory where the items were stored according to the instructions provided by the inventory management system and deliver the picked item s to one or more processing stations for processing. At the processing station s collections of mixed picked items from various orders may be sorted into their respective orders if necessary and additional processing may be performed on the sorted orders if necessary. Once the order for purchasing customer is ready for packing the items in the order which may include one or more items listed by listing customer and one or more other items may be packed into one or more boxes or other shipping containers or receptacles for shipping as a shipment to the purchasing customer . It is possible that all of the items to fulfill the purchasing customer s order may not have been available in the facility and therefore the shipment may be a partial shipment to satisfy the customer s order with the missing items on backorder to be picked and shipped to the purchasing customer at a later date.

In one embodiment the inventory management system may determine if the purchase order received from the purchasing customer is eligible for a particular shipping option or program for example for a discount shipping program free shipping program for purchases over a certain amount or some promotional or special shipping opportunity. If the purchase order is eligible for a particular shipping option or program the inventory management system may notify the purchasing customer at the time of purchase and may instruct the operators at the facility that the shipment is to be shipped to the purchasing customer under terms of the particular shipping option or program.

The item label on an item listed and provided by listing customer may be scanned or otherwise read at least once during the order fulfillment process. For example an operator upon picking an item may scan for example using a hand held scanner the item label from the item. Thus the information on the picked item which may include information identifying the particular listing customer may be communicated to the inventory management system .

The item s on the purchase order or at least a portion of the items including one or more items listed by listing customer and possibly one or more other items may then be shipped to the purchasing customer as shipment . The listing customer is listed as the seller of record for items that were listed and provided by the customer . Other entities are listed as the sellers of records for other items if any. Once the purchasing customer receives the shipment the customer may examine the items contained therein including the item s listed and provided by listing customer . As noted above in one embodiment the inventory management system may provide a method and interface for the purchasing customer to provide feedback on the purchase of item s if desired. For example if the item s provided by listing customer are of much poorer quality than was indicated by the listing customer the purchasing customer may provide feedback that indicates the quality of item s provided by listing customer is poor. Conversely if the item s provided by listing customer are of high quality the purchasing customer may provide feedback that the listing customer provides high quality items .

As noted above some or all fees and charges may be backloaded so that the listing customer does not have to pay the fulfillment service provider for the services provided until after an item is sold. At some point either after a purchase order including an item listed by listing customer is generated or alternatively after the item is actually picked and processed for shipping the listing customer is paid for the sale of the item . In one embodiment the customer is paid the sale price of the item minus any charges or fees assessed by the fulfillment service provider . In one embodiment the payment may be an electronic payment made as an electronic transfer to an account of the listing customer . The account may be a bank account or some other account as specified by the customer. In one embodiment alternative payment methods may be offered for example the listing customer may choose to be paid by a check that is mailed or otherwise delivered to the customer . In one embodiment the inventory management system may via the fulfillment services registration interface provide a method for the listing customer to specify a particular account or some other payment method for all of the listed items . In one embodiment the inventory management system may via the fulfillment services registration interface provide a method for the listing customer to specify a particular account or some other payment method for all of the listed items or alternatively for each item listed separately.

In one embodiment the fulfillment service provider may provide through the inventory management system one or more other options for dispersal of profits from sales by listing customers . For example the fulfillment service provider may provide through the inventory management system an option to donate a portion or all of the profits to a charity or charity fund or to some other non profit organization which may be specified by the fulfillment service provider or optionally specified by the listing customer . In one embodiment the fulfillment service provider may provide an option to the listing customer to have the profit from a sale of item s credited to a purchasing account maintained by the fulfillment service provider and thus the listing customer can use the funds in that account to apply to future purchases from the fulfillment service provider .

The inventory management system may provide notifications for example via email to the listing customer . As an example a email may be sent to the listing customer to inform the listing customer that an item or items listed by the customer has sold and that the profits from the sale are to be electronically transferred to the account specified by the customer or otherwise dispersed . As another example an email may be sent to the customer to notify the customer that an item is about to or has expired its listing period e.g. 90 days without selling. In one embodiment this email may request a reply from the customer selecting from among two or more options as to what to do with this item e.g. return liquidate recycle reduce price etc. Any additional handling charges or fees for an item that has expired may be communicated to the customer and the listing customer s account may be charged for the fees via an electronic transfer. Other emails may be sent for example to notify the customer of the status of a shipped package e.g. to notify the customer that the package has been received and that the package contains or does not contain if that is the case all of the items indicated by the packing slip.

In one embodiment the inventory management system may provide a web page or pages specific to the listing customer whereby the listing customer can log on with appropriate identification and password information and check the status of shipped packages the status of listed items in inventory the status of sales of the listed items and so on. The inventory management system may also provide via the customer s web page or pages the ability for the customer to modify information on listed items s for example the ability for the customer to increase or decrease the requested sale price of listed item s and to change the description of listed item s . The inventory management system may also provide via the customer s web page or pages recommendations on adjusting the price of listed item s based on historical sales information for the specific item s or similar item s .

As illustrated at the fulfillment services provider may provide to the listing customer for example via the fulfillment services registration interface suggested pricing information for the one or more items in response to the request to receive inventory fulfillment services for the one or more items. In one embodiment to provide the suggested pricing information to the listing customer for a given item the fulfillment services provider may evaluate historical sales data corresponding to the given item and generate a suggested price range for the given item in accordance with the historical sales data.

As illustrated at the fulfillment services provider may determine whether the listing customer s request to receive inventory fulfillment services for the one or more items satisfies one or more listing rules of the fulfillment services provider. In one embodiment to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may determine that a sales price specified by the customer via the fulfillment services registration interface for the given item is within a suggested price range which may for example be determined from an evaluation of historical sales data.

In one embodiment to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may estimate the listing customer s expected profit for the given item if the given item sells. In one embodiment the expected profit may be determined as the asking sale price for the item which may be specified by the listing customer via the fulfillment services registration interface minus any expected inventory fulfillment services transaction costs or fees for the given item. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may reject a request to receive inventory fulfillment services for the given item if the determined profit for the given item if sold is less than a specified threshold. The specified threshold may be but is not necessarily zero. In one embodiment the listing customer may be provided with the opportunity to adjust the sale price of the item upwards if desired or to list a given item even though the expected profit is zero or negative if desired.

In other embodiments to determine that the listing customer s request satisfies a particular one of the one or more listing rules with respect to a given item the fulfillment services provider may filter the given items according to one or more other listing rules. For example the fulfillment services provider may choose not to accept out of date items e.g. older versions of textbooks older generations of personal electronic equipment etc. items with poor sales history and or certain categories or types of items certain titles of various media products. In general the listing rules may be used to filter items that the fulfillment services provider will not accept according to any set of criteria that the fulfillment services provider requires or desires.

As illustrated at if the fulfillment services provider determines that the request satisfies the one or more listing rules the fulfillment services provider may provide to the listing customer information for conveying the one or more items to the fulfillment services provider. This information which may be referred to as shipping information may be provided to the customer via the fulfillment services registration interface. For example the shipping information may be displayed via the fulfillment services registration interface in printable form. Alternatively the shipping information may be emailed to the listing customer or provided via some other communications channel or method. As indicated above one or more items may be rejected by the fulfillment services provider or alternatively may be removed from the original request by the listing customer if necessary or desired. Thus the shipping information may only specify ones of the one or more items that are accepted by the fulfillment services provider and by the listing customer.

In one embodiment the shipping information may include a shipping list or packing slip that lists accepted ones of the one or more possibly heterogeneous items. In one embodiment the shipping information may also include one or more package labels that specify at least the ship from and ship to addresses. In one embodiment shipping costs may be prepaid and thus the package label s may specify prepaid shipping. In one embodiment the shipping information provided to the listing customer may also include information on one or more carriers or delivery services for example street addresses drop off locations phone numbers and or schedules that are available near the listing customer s address to deliver shipments to the ship to address specified by the fulfillment services provider. In one embodiment either one or both of the packing slip and package label may include scannable or otherwise readable information that may be used by a carrier or delivery service and or by the fulfillment services provider upon receiving the package s .

The packing slip and each item may be placed by the listing customer into a package or packages the packing label s may be applied to the outside of the package s and the package s may be shipped to a facility of the fulfillment services provider as specified by the ship to address on the package label. The facility may be a materials handling facility for example an order fulfillment center. Upon arriving at the facility as specified by the ship to address on the package label an inventory management system of the fulfillment services provider such as inventory management system illustrated in may detect that the package s have been received at the facility. For example the package label on the package may be scanned which identifies to the inventory management system that the shipment from the listing customer has arrived. In one embodiment the package may be opened and the packing slip may be removed. The packing slip may include scannable or otherwise readable information. For example the packing slip may include a bar code. An operator may scan or otherwise read the information from the packing slip. Upon receiving the scanned or read information from the packing slip and or from the packing label the inventory management system may in response provide instructions as to the disposition of the items contained in the associated package in the facility. For example the inventory management system may provide instructions that direct the operator or some other operator or operators to put or place each item in the package into a particular location bin slot or other receptacle in inventory storage of the facility. In one embodiment the items may be commingled with other items that are not associated with the listing customer within inventory storage of the facility.

As illustrated at if the fulfillment services provider determines that the request satisfies the one or more listing rules the fulfillment services provider may generate respective sales listings for the one or more items within one or more electronic commerce channels. In one embodiment an electronic commerce channel may be provided by the fulfillment services provider for example via a sales listing services interface such as sales listing services interface illustrated and described for or as another example via an electronic commerce web site that accesses the inventory management system of the fulfillment services provider in accordance with a web services interface. As indicated above one or more items may be rejected by the fulfillment services provider or removed from the original request by the listing customer if necessary or desired. Thus sales listings may only be generated for ones of the one or more items that are accepted by the fulfillment services provider and by the listing customer. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may provide via the fulfillment services registration interface an option and interface e.g. a web page for the listing customer to remove the sales listing for an item if desired and or to modify a sales listing for example by changing the sales price or editing listing customer comments. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may reserve the right to remove any sales listing for an item and or to modify a sales listing if necessary or desired.

In one embodiment if a given one of the one or more items listed by the listing customer sells via the sales listings on the electronic commerce channel s the fulfillment services provider may assess any charges and fees to the listing customer for inventory fulfillment services related to the given item. In one embodiment the charges and fees are backloaded that is the listing customer pays the fees when the item actually sells and thus the profit for the sale is the sales price minus the fees. In one embodiment the listing customer is the seller of record for each item sold via the sales listings on the electronic commerce channel s .

In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may specify a listing period or expiration period after which sales listings on the electronic commerce channel s may expire. For example the fulfillment services provider may expire sales listings after 90 days. In one embodiment different lengths of listing periods may be applied to different types or categories of items. In one embodiment if a given item does not sell prior to the expiration of its corresponding sales listing the fulfillment services provider may not assess fees to the listing customer for the costs of inventory fulfillment services incurred prior to the expiration of the corresponding sales listing. In one embodiment at least a portion of the fees for the costs of inventory fulfillment services incurred prior to the expiration of the corresponding sales listing may be assessed to the listing customer for given items that do not sell before the listing period for the corresponding sales listing expires.

In one embodiment after expiration of a sales listing the corresponding item may be returned to the listing customer. In other embodiments the corresponding item may be disposed of via one of one or more other methods. In one embodiment the item may be reduced in price and the sales listing accordingly adjusted for an extended listing period. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may after the listing period for an item expires without the item being sold reduce the sale price of the item by some amount e.g. 10 and then reduce the price again after a period e.g. two days or a week if the item does not sell at that price and may continue periodically or aperiodically reducing the price until the item sells or if the item does not sell otherwise disposing of the item. In one embodiment for any item that has not sold by the end of the listing period the fulfillment services provider may continue to carry the item but may begin charging stocking and possibly other applicable inventory fulfillment services fees to the listing customer. In one embodiment the item may be liquidated for example by selling the item to a wholesaler at a wholesale or liquidation price. In one embodiment the item may be thrown away or recycled if possible. In one embodiment the item may be donated to a charity or other not for profit organization. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may notify the listing customer for example via email or via a web page provided via the fulfillment services registration interface when a sales listing for an item is about to or has expired. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may via the fulfillment services registration interface or via some other communications channel provide the listing customer with two or more options for disposal of an item for which the corresponding sales listing has expired and the listing customer may thus select a desired disposal option. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may assess appropriate fees to the listing customer in accordance with the method of disposal of the item. If there is any profit from the disposal of the item for example if the item is sold at a reduced price that provides a profit after assessment of any applicable fees the listing customer may be paid the profit by the fulfillment services provider for example via an electronic funds transfer to an account of the listing customer. If there is no profit but instead a negative profit or loss due to the fees for handling and disposal of the item after expiration of the corresponding sales listing the listing customer may be assessed for the charges. Assessment of any fees or charges for the handling and disposal may also be performed via electronic funds transfer from an account of the listing customer.

After the items are listed on the one or more electronic commerce channels and received into the inventory storage of the facility as described above the inventory management system of the fulfillment services provider may receive an order from a purchasing customer for a given one of the items provided by the listing customer and possibly also specifying one or more other items not provided by the listing customer. The order may be received for example via one of the one or more electronic commerce channels. In response to receiving the order from the purchasing customer the inventory management system may issue instructions to the operators at the facility that direct the operators in picking packing and shipping the given item along with other items if any to the purchasing customer. In one embodiment the listing customer is the seller of record of the given item and only of the given item. In response to receiving the order from the purchasing customer the inventory management system may credit to the listing customer the sales price for the given item less any inventory fulfillment services fees assessed to the listing customer for the given item.

In one embodiment the inventory management system may determine if the order received from the purchasing customer is eligible for a particular shipping option or program for example for a discount shipping program or promotional shipping opportunity. If the order is eligible for a particular shipping option or program the inventory management system may instruct the operators at the facility that the order including the given item is to be shipped to the purchasing customer under terms of the particular shipping option or program.

Display may include but is not limited to a search area and a list area. Search area may be used by the listing customer to search for and select particular items in a catalog of the fulfillment services provider that match items that the listing customer desires to list with the fulfillment services provider. Search may include a search category user interface element that enables the listing customer to select a category for an item to be searched for. Categories may include but are not limited to various media categories e.g. books music subcategories of music or books DVDs movies subcategories of movies video and or computer games etc. and various other categories e.g. personal electronic devices appliances tools electric tools etc. . In general any type or category of item listed in a catalog of the fulfillment services provider may be entered or selected in search category . In one embodiment search category may be a menu from which a particular category may be selected. In one embodiment search category may be a text entry box that accepts alphanumeric input.

Search may also include a search for user interface element. In one embodiment search for may be a text entry box that accepts alphanumeric input. In one embodiment search for may accept one or more of but is not limited to an ISBN of a book a Universal Product Code UPC a proprietary item identifier used by the fulfillment services provider some other identifier associated with items a title or portion of a title an artist or author s name or some other keyword. In one embodiment one or more logical operators may be entered to construct a search expression for example the user may enter Smith AND Blues to search for titles that include both the words Smith and Blues. Search may also include a Go user interface element for example a button to initiate a search for a specified search for in the specified search category .

List is where particular items selected by the listing customer are to be listed. List may include a summary of the listed items which may display the total number of units listed and the estimated total profit if all of the units are sold. List may also include a complete user interface element that the listing customer may select when the customer has completed the listing of items.

In the listing customer has selected a category of Popular music specified a search string and selected Go . At least three items have been located in the catalog that meet the specified search criteria. These items are displayed horizontally in search area as items A B and C. Items may provide graphical and or textual descriptions of and information about the items in the catalog. For example an item may display a graphical image of an item such as a CD and may display an ISBN UPC or some other code or identifier associated with the item. One or more user interface elements e.g. More may be provided to scroll or otherwise view other items that have been located via the search but that are not currently displayed. In one embodiment each item may be user selectable for example by hovering a cursor over an item and left clicking a mouse to add the item to list . In one embodiment a Select 812 user interface element may also or instead be provided with each item whereby the listing customer may select the associated item . At this point the listing customer has not yet selected a particular item that best matches an item that the customer wants to list.

In the listing customer has selected item A and item A has been added to list . List may include one or more other user interface elements associated with item A. For example list may include item information that displays additional textual and or graphical information related to item A such as the title weight type or category identifier s and so on. List may also include one or more user interface elements in which the listing customer may select or enter information related to the particular item in the listing customer s possession that the listing customer wishes to list for sale. In one embodiment list may include a Condition user interface element which may for example be a selectable menu item via which the listing customer may select an approximate condition from a range of two or more conditions for the particular item in the listing customer s possession. For example selectable conditions may include something like like new very good average and poor. In one embodiment list may include a Condition notes user interface element in which the listing customer may enter text further describing the condition or other aspects of the particular item. In one embodiment list may include a quantity user interface element in which the listing customer may specify how many units of the particular item A one or more the listing customer is listing for sale.

In one embodiment list may include a price user interface element. In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may automatically determine a price for the selected item and may enter the price in price user interface element. In one embodiment the listing customer may enter a desired sale price in price user interface element. In one embodiment list may include a user interface element that shows an estimated profit if the item is sold at the specified sales price. The profit is calculated from the specified sale price minus any appropriate inventory fulfillment service fees assessed to the listing customer upon sale of the associated item. Note that the profit if sold may be negative if the estimated fees are greater than the sale price specified in price . In one embodiment list may include a user interface element that shows current and or historical asking sale prices for item A In one embodiment as shown user interface element may show the number of new items A currently in inventory of the fulfillment services provider and the minimum sale price for the item A as new and the number of used items A currently in inventory of the fulfillment services provider and the minimum sale price for the item A as used. In one embodiment list may also show a range of sale prices from the minimum sale price to the maximum sale price. In one embodiment list may also show more detailed pricing information for example sale prices for used items in various conditions. In one embodiment the more detailed pricing information may also include an estimated amount of time to sell the item as listed by the listing customer at one or more sale prices. Thus the fulfillment services provider via the user interface provided in display may coach the listing customer in selecting an appropriate sale price for particular items in particular conditions.

In one embodiment list may include an Add user interface element that may be selected to add the associated item A displayed in list area to an actual list of items that the listing customer wishes to sell. In one embodiment Add may be disabled until the listing customer completes one or more required fields associated with the item A. In the listing customer has not yet completed the fields associated with item A and therefore the item A while listed has not yet been added. Note that the summary of listed items still shows zero units and zero total profit.

In the listing customer has entered information in the various fields of list associated with item A and has added item A by selecting Add of . The listing customer has specified a sale price of 30.00 for the single unit of item A that the customer wishes to sell. An expected profit if sold of 22.58 is displayed by Profit if sold user interface element. The summary of listed items now shows one unit and 22.58 total profit. A Remove user interface element is displayed for item A which the listing customer may select to remove item A from the list. Note that the Search area has been cleared or reset to its default condition of not displaying any items in response to the listing customer selecting Add associated with item A.

In the listing customer has selected a category of Books specified a search string and selected Go . At least three items have been located in the catalog that meet the specified search criteria. These items are displayed horizontally in search area as items D E and F. At this point the listing customer has not yet selected a particular item that best matches an item that the customer wants to list and thus another item has not been added to list .

In the listing customer has selected item E and item E has been added to list . The listing customer has not yet entered information in the various fields of list associated with item E and has not yet selected Add for item E. The summary of listed items still shows one unit and 22.58 total profit.

In the listing customer has entered information in the various fields of list associated with item E and has selected Add for item E. Note that the sale price for item E is 1.50 and the Profit if sold for item E is 0.99. The listing customer will lose money if the item E is sold at the asking sale price. The summary of listed items now shows two units and 21.59 total profit if all units are sold. If the expected profit if sold for an item is negative the Profit if sold user interface element may display the negative profit in bold and or in color e.g. red or may use one or more other methods to highlight the negative profit. Alternatively the display may alert the listing customer via some other mechanism or mechanisms that sale of the item at the specified sale price may result in a negative profit. The listing customer may choose to raise the price to at least a break even level in response or may choose not to list the item e.g. by selecting the remove user interface element.

In one embodiment the fulfillment services provider may refuse to accept a listing for an item that will result in a negative profit or loss. In this embodiment the fulfillment services provider may via the user interface presented on display or via some other mechanism alert the listing customer that the item will not be accepted at the specified price. In this embodiment the Add user interface element may be disabled for an associated item that will result in a negative profit if sold at the specified price. The listing customer may choose to raise the price to at least a break even level in response or may choose not to list the item.

In the listing customer has removed item E and searched for and selected two other items items G and H. The listing customer has entered information in the various fields of list associated with items G and H and has selected Add for items G and H. The summary of listed items now shows three units and 32.72 total profit. If the listing customer is done with the listing of items that the customer wishes to sell the listing customer may select the complete user interface element. Otherwise the listing customer may continue to work on the list searching for and adding other items and possibly editing or removing listed items .

Display may also include a user interface element e.g. a print button which the listing user may select to print the packing slip . Display may also include a user interface element e.g. a continue button which the listing user may select to go to a next display.

While illustrate separate displays for the packing label s and packing slip in an alternative embodiment a single display may be used to display the packing label s and packing slip to the listing customer.

It is contemplated that in some embodiments any of the methods or techniques described above may be implemented as program instructions and data capable of being stored or conveyed via a computer accessible medium. Such methods or techniques may include for example and without limitation the functions of inventory management system interface and or database as well as the methods illustrated in or any suitable variations or portions thereof. Such methods or techniques may include for example and without limitation the functions of inventory management system interfaces and and or database illustrated in as well as the method illustrated in or any suitable variations or portions thereof Such program instructions may also be executed to perform computational functions in support of the methods and techniques described above for example to instantiate operating system functionality application functionality and or any other suitable functions.

One exemplary embodiment of a computer system including computer accessible media is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface . In some embodiments it is contemplated that inventory management system and or inventory management system may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems may be configured to host different portions or instances of inventory management system and or inventory management system . For example in one embodiment some data sources or services e.g. purchasing management services may be implemented via instances of computer system that are distinct from those instances implementing other data sources or services e.g. order entry fulfillment services . It is noted that in some embodiments the functions of inventory management system and or inventory management system as variously described hereinabove may be partitioned in any suitable fashion into a number of distinct modules procedures or other functional portions. The resulting portions of inventory management system and or inventory management system may then be implemented as a unified or distributed system among one or several instances of computer system for example as instructions executable by one or more of processors .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be a general purpose or embedded processor implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by process . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD ROM coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Program instructions and data stored via a computer accessible medium may be transmitted by transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals which may be conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Additionally it is contemplated that any of the methods or techniques described above and illustrated for example in and in may be implemented as a web service that may be performed on behalf of clients requesting such a service. Generally speaking providing a function or service as a web service may encompass providing any of a variety of standardized APIs configured to allow different software programs to communicate e.g. to request services and respond to such requests in an autonomous web based and typically platform independent manner. For example an enterprise may choose to expose certain enterprise data e.g. catalog data inventory data customer data or other types of data and or certain enterprise functions e.g. fulfillment service request processing functions query functions electronic commerce functions generic data storage or computational functions etc. to external clients e.g. merchants or customers via a web services interface. Applications could then access the exposed data and or functions via the web services interface even though the accessing application may be configured to execute on an entirely different platform e.g. a different operating system or system architecture than the platform hosting the exposed data or functions. For example a merchant may perform self service registration of an item for fulfillment services or may inform fulfillment center of an order to be fulfilled through web services calls exposed by interface .

In some embodiments provisioning a web service may encompass the use of particular protocols which may be executable e.g. as part of code to publish available web services to potential users to describe the interfaces of web services sufficiently to allow users to invoke web services properly to allow users to select and differentiate among web services for a particular transaction and to provide a format for exchanging web services data in a flexible and platform independent manner. Specifically in one embodiment a provider of a web service may register the service using a version of the Universal Discovery Description and Integration UDDI protocol which may function as a general directory through which potential resource users may locate web services of interest. The web service provider may also publish specific details regarding how a well formed web services request from a user should be formatted e.g. what specific parameters are required or allowed the data type or format to be used for a given parameter etc. . For example such interface details may be published e.g. within a UDDI directory entry using a version of the Web Services Description Language WSDL .

In many embodiments web services request and response data is exchanged between a client and the service provider through the use of messages or documents formatted as platform independent structured data such as a document formatted in compliance with a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML . For example in one embodiment a web services request to provide inventory health information for a given inventory item may be embodied in an XML document including fields identifying the item of interest the type of data requested e.g. inventory health data and possibly other fields in which each field is delimited by an XML tag describing the type of data the field represents. The response to such a request from the web service provider may include an XML document containing the requested data. In some embodiments web services related documents may be transmitted between applications making requests and targeted web services using a web based data transfer protocol such as a version of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example.

Different types of web services requests and responses may yield XML documents that bear little content in common which may complicate the handling and interpretation of such documents. For example in different versions of a free form XML document specifying a web services request the actual web service that is requested may appear at different places within different document versions which may require a recipient of the document to buffer or parse a good deal of document data before understanding what the document is for. Consequently in some embodiments the XML documents containing web services request response data may encapsulated within additional XML data used to define a messaging framework e.g. a generic format for exchanging documents or messages having arbitrary content. For example in one embodiment web services requests or responses may be XML documents formatted according to a version of the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP which in various versions may define distinct document sections such as an envelope e.g. which may include a specification of the document type the intended recipient web service etc. as well as a message body that may include arbitrary XML message data e.g. the particular details of the web services request . However in some embodiments web services may be implemented using different protocols and standards for publishing services and formatting and exchanging messages.

Additionally in some embodiments a web services system may be implemented without using document based techniques such as SOAP type protocols. For example as an alternative to a document based approach a web service may be implemented using a Representational State Transfer REST type architecture. Generally speaking in REST type architectures web services requests may be formed as commands conveyed via a transport protocol such as PUT or GET commands conveyed via a version of the HTTP protocol. Those parameters of the request that might be embedded within a document in a document based web services architecture may instead be included as command parameters in a REST type architecture. Other suitable configurations of web services architectures are possible and contemplated.

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

