---

title: Detecting bacteria by direct counting of structural protein units or pili by IVDS and mass spectrometry
abstract: A system and method for detecting the presence of submicron sized particles in a sample taken from the environment. More particularly, the system may be used to detect and identify bacteria by detecting the presence of bacterial pili which have been separated from bacterial cells in the sample. The system includes means for collecting a sample from the environment, separating pili from bacteria in the sample, and purifying and concentrating the submicron sized pili in the sample based on the size of the pili. The purified and concentrated pili are detected with an apparatus which includes an electrospray assembly having an electrospray capillary, a differential mobility analyzer which receives output from the capillary, and a condensation particle counting device for counting the number of pili sized particles that pass through the differential mobility analyzer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07850908&OS=07850908&RS=07850908
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07850908
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070727
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 314 328 filed on Dec. 9 2002 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 250 138 on Jul. 31 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured licensed and used by or for the United States Government. The invention also relates to U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 6 485 686 6 491 872 and 7 250 138 all assigned to the United States Government and incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to the detection identification and monitoring of submicron size particles. More particularly the invention pertains to apparatus and methods for the sampling measuring characterizing automated detection identification and monitoring of submicron size particles. Preferably the present invention provides for the sampling detection and identification of submicron size particles having a size range of from about 5 to about 1000 nanometers. Such particles include viruses and virus like agents such as for example prions viral subunits viral cores of delipidated viruses plant viruses etc. and other biological materials such as nanometer size portions of bacteria.

Detection and identification of viruses without limiting the detection and identification to a particular family genus and species and searching for viruses pathogenic to humans in a single environment can be difficult.

As set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 6 485 686 6 491 872 and 7 250 138 assigned to the U.S. Government and herein incorporated by reference viruses may also be extracted from an environment and concentrated to an extent that permits detection and monitoring of viruses without culturing procedures. Generally in the detection of small amounts of viruses in environmental or biological liquids it may be necessary to both enrich the concentration of viruses many orders of magnitude i.e. greatly reduce the volume of liquid containing the viruses and accomplish removal of non viral impurities. In the presence of non viral impurities even the most sensitive detection methods generally require virus concentrations on the order of 10 femtomoles microliter or more in the sampled liquid to reliably detect the viruses.

Sampling for airborne viruses is generally accomplished by collecting airborne particles in liquid using a process such as air scrubbing or eluting from filter paper collectors into a liquid medium. Collection and subsequent separation and detection methods are affected by the adsorption of viruses into solids in aerosols and liquids.

In contrast when sampling liquids for viruses in many cases no special equipment or processes may be necessary in order to collect a sample for example in sampling blood and other body fluids for viruses only a standard clinical hypodermic needle may be needed. For sampling of bodies of water or other conveniently accessible liquids sample collection may not be an issue at all and in such cases the term collector is often applied to what is in reality a virus extraction step such as collection on a filter .

Bacteria are different types of microorganisms than viruses. Viruses are a magnitude smaller in size than bacteria. Bacteria are classified in their own scheme. They have cell walls or are organized into cellular components and generally are considered to be among the self sustaining organisms. Viruses require a living cell to invade in their life cycle. The technology and processes disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 6 485 686 6 491 872 and 7 250 138 capitalize on the size and physical properties of the viruses to separate count and characterize them. There is sufficient information from this characterization to identify them and perform investigative studies.

Bacteria are generally 0.5 1 microns wide and 2 3 microns long and generally outside the physical ability of the apparatus disclosed in the referenced U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 6 485 686 and 6 491 872. Bacteria have however interesting features that are in the proper size range for the apparatus to characterize. For example gram negative bacteria named because of their inability to retain crystal violet iodine complex stain have rigid surface appendages called pili. These hair like structures are around 7 nm in diameter and vary in length up to 25 nm for the longer flagellae which are other nanometer sized structures that can be attached to the surface of bacteria. The pili are composed of structural protein sub units called pilins. Some structures have only one structural protein unit other pili are more complex and have several. These pili consist of a precise helical arrangement of one or more types of protein and as indicated may have different lengths for different bacteria. Choudhury et. al 1999 Science 7 Aug. 99 285 1061 and David Eisenberg How chaperones protect virgin proteins Science 13 Aug. 99 285 1021 discuss crystal complexes associated with pilin subunits. Cell lysis breaks the cell into components. Lysis can be achieved by changes in pH temperature sonic treatment or by chemical means.

Processes for the separation and collection of pili from bacteria are generally set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 443 431 Buchanan et. al. 4 472 302 Karkhanis 4 702 911 McMichael 4 740 585 Schmidt et. al. 4 971 794 Linggood et. al. 5 612 036 Hodges et. al. 5 750 116 Brinton 5 968 769 Green et. al. and 6 291 649 Lindberg et. al. the teachings of which are fully incorporated herein by reference. Generally heat chemical activity and physical means can be used to release the pili from the bacteria. The pili can then be separated from the bacteria cells and counted as nanometer sized particles. Further it is expected that different pili proteins for different bacteria species can be expected to be separated and identified. Identification of pili as nanometer sized particles and rapid identification and classification of the bacteria according to the nanometer sized characteristics of the pili is desired.

The present invention relates to a method and apparatus for rapidly detecting and identifying the presence of different bacteria in an environment. A collecting means is utilized to collect liquid and gaseous samples from the environment. In some cases a means for purifying and or concentrating the bacteria such as a filtering means may be necessary to remove extraneous substances and impurities from the bacteria in the collected sample.

A separating means is then used to remove the pili from the bacteria. This may be accomplished by the application of one or more of heat chemicals and or mechanical or physical energy. The system then includes a means for purifying and or concentrating the separated pili. The system also includes a means for detecting the purified and concentrated or separated pili wherein the detecting means comprises an electrospray assembly the assembly having an electrospray capillary which receives the output from the purifying and concentrating means a differential mobility analyzer which receives the output from the capillary and a condensation particle device for counting the number of particles that pass through the differential mobility analyzer. Automated control means can be utilized to control the flow of sample through the system. A biomarker means or other calibrating means may be mixed with the sample and utilized to correlate the results with the known size or concentration of the biomarker or calibrating means.

In a more general sense the method for detecting the presence of submicron sized particles in a sample taken from the environment includes the steps of collecting a sample from the environment purifying and concentrating the submicron size particles in the sample based on size and detecting the purified and concentrated particles with a detecting means comprising an electrospray assembly which has an electrospray capillary which receives the output from the purifying and concentrating means a differential mobility analyzer which receives the output from the capillary and a condensation particle device for counting the number of particles that pass through the differential mobility analyzer.

The bacteria can be identified by detecting the different pili that can be removed from the bacteria. A separating means may include one or more of a chemical means heating means or physical means or mechanical means to remove the pili from the bacteria. Purifying means can be used to separate the submicron or virus size pili from the larger material such as bacteria. The separated pili can then be detected and categorized according to their physical characteristics such as the size of the pili. A means for detecting the purified and concentrated pili includes an electrospray assembly the assembly having an electrospray capillary which receives the output from the purifying or concentrating means a differential mobility analyzer which receives the output from the capillary and a condensation particle device for counting the number of particles that pass through the differential mobility analyzer. A biomarker means or other calibrating means may be mixed with the sample and utilized to correlate the results with the known size or concentration of the biomarker or calibrating means.

In more general terms a system and method for detecting the presence of submicron sized particles having a size range of from about 5 to about 1000 nanometers in a sample taken from the environment is provided herein. The system includes a collecting means for collecting a sample from the environment and a means for purifying and concentrating or separating the submicron particles in a sample by purifying and concentrating or separating the particles based on size. The purifying and concentrating or separating means includes a means for connecting the collecting means to the purifying and concentrating means for transferring the sample from the collecting means to the means for purifying and concentrating the particles. The system also includes a means for detecting the purified and concentrated or separated particles wherein the detecting means comprises an electrospray assembly the assembly having an electrospray capillary which receives the output from the purifying and concentrating means a differential mobility analyzer which receives the output from the capillary and a condensation particle device for counting the number of particles that pass through the differential mobility analyzer. A biomarker means or other calibrating means may be mixed with the sample and utilized to correlate the results with the known size or concentration of the biomarker or calibrating means. In a more specific application the device can include a means for separating pili from bacteria collected from a sample and the pili can then be processed and detected as is done for other submicron sized particles.

The collecting means may comprise an ultracentrifuge for density gradient ultracentrifugation so that the particles are banded according to density or a collector having means for liquid scrubbing a collected fluid sample of aerosol and gaseous materials containing the particles and a means for reducing the size of solid materials in the fluid sample. The collecting means may also comprise a liquid sample collector. The collecting means is intended to collect a sample containing submicron size particles having a size from about 5 to about 1000 nanometers and are selected from the group consisting of viruses prions macromolecules proteins and satellites viral subunits viral cores of delipidated viruses and plant viruses. Further examples include standard particles used for calibrating equipment coated particles spherical particles metallic core shelled particles polymers fluorescent microspheres powders nanoclusters particles produced as a result of manufacturing processes and other chemical and biological materials such as nanometer size portions of bacteria such as pili.

The system also includes a means for detecting the purified and concentrated particles such as bacterial pili wherein the detecting means comprises an electrospray assembly the assembly having an electrospray capillary which receives the output from the purifying and concentrating means a differential mobility analyzer which receives the output from said capillary and which receives the output from the capillary and a condensation particle device for counting the number of particles that pass through the differential mobility analyzer. Automated control means can be utilized to control the flow of sample through the system.

The method for detecting the presence of submicron sized particles or pili in a sample taken from the environment includes the steps of collecting a sample from the environment purifying and concentrating the submicron size particles in the sample based on size and detecting the purified and concentrated particles with a detecting means comprising an electrospray assembly which has an electrospray capillary which receives the output from the purifying and concentrating means a differential mobility analyzer which receives the output from the capillary and a condensation particle device for counting the number of particles that pass through the differential mobility analyzer.

Accordingly an object of the present invention is to detect known and unknown or submicron size particles.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a method and apparatus for the efficient and rapid detection and identification of bacteria based on the physical characteristics of pili particles separated from the bacteria.

A further object of the present invention to provide an automated system for the detection and identification of bacteria based on the characterization of the submicron size pili particles.

These together with still other objects of the invention along with the various features which characterize the invention are pointed out with particularity in the appended claims.

Referring to there is shown generally a representation of a bacterial cell having one or more pili attached to the outer surface of the bacterial cell. Bacteria may have more than one type of pili as generally represented by numbers and . Pili are present on a variety of different types of bacteria as generally represented in Table 1 below.

As shown in a first purifying and concentrating stage or means includes a means for purifying and concentrating the bacteria in the sample from other materials based on the size of the bacteria in relation to other smaller and larger particles. The smaller particles have a size range of from about 5 to about 1000 nanometers and examples of such submicron size particles include viruses prions macromolecules proteins and satellites viral subunits viral cores of delipidated viruses and plant viruses. It would be helpful to remove these submicron size particles from the sample before the pili are separated from the bacteria since pili have size ranges of from within a range from 5 to about 1000 nanometers. This separation may be accomplished for example by use of an ultracentrifuge for density gradient ultracentifugation so that the sample particles are banded according to density. Further a filter means or other purifying and separation means may be used for removing both particles smaller and larger than a predetermined size range of bacteria expected to be present in the sample. Along with the separation of particles of a particular size range from the sample this process also may serve to concentrate the bacteria in the sample.

In the purifying and concentrating stage another means for purifying and concentrating the bacteria sample comprises a centrifuge of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 6 485 686 6 491 872 and 7 250 138. After centrifugation the gradient imprisoned in the rotor of the centrifuge can be divided into two parts the useful part which contains that range or in some cases those ranges of densities in which the particles to be detected are expected to lie and the remainder which will generally be discarded and not sent on to the next stage. Thus for example in the detection of viruses pathogenic to humans this useful part could be that part of the gradient corresponding to densities of 1.175 1.46 g ml alternatively a subset of this range could constitute the useful range if only certain viruses are being analyzed. Similarly in the centrifuging of samples containing bacteria there may be a range of bacteria densities that are desired to be separated out from the centrifuge gradient. Further since the pili will be separated from the bacteria in the subsequent separating stage it is expected that particles smaller than 1000 nanometers would be separated out as non useful parts of the gradient and disposed of as waste.

The useful part of the gradient containing the bacteria will then be passed on to the separating stage . One advantage of the ultracentrifuge is that for large sample volumes with small quantities of bacteria for example monitoring of bodies of water such as drinking water sources a continuous flow density gradient ultracentrifugation could be used for continuous testing. In continuous flow operation the bacteria containing liquid stream is pumped in from the collection stage and flows continuously over the density gradient in the rotor of the centrifuge and bacteria sediment out of the stream banding into the density gradient according to buoyant density. This pumping of sample into and out of the centrifuge can be performed with the centrifuge spinning at high speed. Alternatively for fixed sample volumes with ordinary zonal operation not continuous flow the sample does not flow continuously into the centrifuge for long periods of loading but rather the entire sample volume which must be less than the annular volume of the centrifuge is loaded into the centrifuge. The rotor volume is then closed off before acceleration to high speed. After loading and centrifuging to achieve banding the bacteria containing bands are recovered by displacing the bands sequentially with lowest density bands exiting first and highest density last. As the density of each bacteria uniquely determines the position of that virus or particle in the exiting stream the timing of the detection of specific bacteria particles provides particle density information.

In operation sample liquid is introduced into the density gradient within the centrifuge rotor at the low density end of the gradient and each particle or molecule penetrates into the gradient at a rate that increases with the mass of the particle and with the density. In the case of a protein molecule the mass is much smaller than that of a virus by at least an order of magnitude and the density is about the same as that of a relatively low density virus. Accordingly the rate of banding for proteins is much slower than for viruses. The proteins will then primarily be to the low density side of their equilibrium positions as they started on that side. Since the equilibrium position of most proteins in a gradient is nominally about 1.3 g ml at the operating time most proteins are positioned considerably lower than 1.3. Once the bacteria are banded the centrifuge is decelerated to low speed and the gradient is recovered by pumping dense fluid of preferably 60 CsCl from the gradient supply system to the centrifuge. The dense fluid displaces the gradient with low density bands exiting first followed by high density bands. The procedure is complete in a few minutes and the cycle repeats again beginning with the loading of the density gradient at low speed. Ultracentrifugation provides the advantages of universal capture of all catalogued and non cataloged bacteria with high capture efficiencies and a high degree of bacteria separation from the background components.

After passing through the purifying and concentrating stage the sample containing the bacteria is then fed to the separating stage for separating the pili from the surfaces of the bacteria. This may be done by chemical means heat mechanical or physical means or combinations thereof. In the embodiment shown in the separation stage comprises a mechanical separating means for mechanically removing the pili from the surface of the bacteria includes a housing or chamber an inlet conduit having a valve means a plunger a motor for selectively moving the plunger in the chamber and an outlet . The outlet may include an adjustable restriction and an outlet valve . The liquid sample from the purifying and concentrating stage enters the chamber through inlet having a valve for controlling the flow of liquid into the chamber. As liquid enters the chamber the plunger is withdrawn in a careful manner by the motor . When the chamber is substantially filled a slight forward movement of the plunger causes any residual air to be removed from the chamber and the valve is closed. After outlet valve is opened separation of the pili from the surface of the bacteria may be produced by using the plunger to force the liquid sample out of the chamber through the outlet having an adjustable restriction . For testing consistency the volume of liquid sample should be about the same for the different pili separations. Also the movement rate of the plunger and size of the restriction should be selectively controlled for different separations. Additional control for the pili separation process may include a circumferential heater for applying a controlled amount of heat to the chamber and the liquid sample. A thermometer is connected to the chamber for measuring the heat or temperature applied to the sample. Further chemicals such as sodium hydroxide ammonium acetate and others well known in the art can be used to adjust the pH and disrupt the cell wall of the bacteria to produce separation of the pili from the bacteria. These chemicals may be introduced into the chamber through a small valve controlled tube or capillary .

After the pili have been removed or separated from the bacteria the solution passes to a second purifying and concentrating stage where the pili are separated from the bacteria cells. show further details of a filter means with filter container which comprise one embodiment for purifying and or concentrating the pili. With the filter means a sample is first placed in the feed reservoir and then a peristaltic pump is turned on to cause the sample to flow through the filter container . As the sample is fed through a tubular or cross flow filter housed within the filter container the filtrate which includes pili which are smaller than bacteria cells are forced through the filter and removed from the filter container as filtrate leaving the pili stripped bacteria cells contained within the filter . Control valve and pressure indicators and are used to regulate the flow rate and pressures within the filter container .

In the purifying and concentrating stage another means for purifying and concentrating the pili separated from the bacteria sample in the separating stage comprises a centrifuge of the type disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 and 6 485 686. After centrifugation the gradient imprisoned in the rotor of the centrifuge can be divided into two parts the useful part which contains that range or in some cases those ranges of densities in which the particles to be detected are expected to lie and the remainder which will generally be discarded and not sent on to the next stage. Thus for example in the detection of viruses pathogenic to humans this useful part could be that part of the gradient corresponding to densities of 1.175 1.46 g ml alternatively a subset of this range could constitute the useful range if only certain viruses are being analyzed for. Similarly in the centrifuging of samples containing pili there may be a range of pili densities that are desired to be separated out from the centrifuge gradient. Further it is expected that pili particles smaller than 1000 nanometers would be separated out as the useful parts of the gradient and passed on to the detecting stage .

One advantage of the ultracentrifuge is that for large sample volumes with small quantities of pili for example in monitoring of bodies of water such as drinking water sources a continuous flow density gradient ultracentrifugation could be used for continuous testing. In continuous flow operation the pili containing liquid stream from the separating stage flows continuously over the density gradient in the rotor of the centrifuge and are banded into the density gradient according to buoyant density. This pumping of sample into and out of the centrifuge can be performed with the centrifuge spinning at high speed. Alternatively for fixed sample volumes with ordinary zonal operation not continuous flow the pili sample does not flow continuously into the centrifuge for long periods of loading but rather the entire sample volume which must be less than the annular volume of the centrifuge is loaded into the centrifuge. The rotor volume is then closed off before acceleration to high speed. After loading and centrifuging to achieve banding the pili containing bands are recovered by displacing the bands sequentially with lowest density bands exiting first and highest density last. As the density of each pili uniquely determines the position of that pili or particle in the exiting stream the timing of the detection of specific pili particles provides particle density information.

In operation pili sample liquid is introduced into the density gradient within the centrifuge rotor at the low density end of the gradient and each particle or molecule penetrates into the gradient at a rate that increases with the mass of the particle and with the density. In the case of a protein molecule the mass is much smaller than that of a pili by at least an order of magnitude and the density is about the same as that of a relatively low density virus. Accordingly the rate of banding for proteins is much slower than for viruses. The proteins will then primarily be to the low density side of their equilibrium positions as they started on that side. Since the equilibrium position of most proteins in a gradient is nominally about 1.3 g ml at the operating time most proteins are positioned considerably lower than 1.3. Once the pili are banded the centrifuge is decelerated to low speed and the gradient is recovered by pumping dense fluid of preferably 60 CsCl from the gradient supply system to the centrifuge. The dense fluid displaces the gradient with low density bands exiting first followed by high density bands. The procedure is complete in a few minutes and the cycle repeats again beginning with the loading of the density gradient at low speed. Ultracentrifugation provides the advantages of universal capture of all catalogued and non cataloged pili with high capture efficiencies and a high degree of pili separation from the background components.

The pili filtrate from the second purifying and concentrating stage is then fed to a detecting stage . A detailed description of the detection stage of the present invention including the gas phase electrophoretic mobility molecular analyzers GEMMA the electrospray assembly ES the differential mobility analyzer DMA and the condensation particle counter CPC assembly is provided in co pending U.S. Pat. No. 7 250 138 and related U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 051 189 6 485 686 and 6 491 872 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This test example analyzes the direct counting of hair like pili structures as shown in for specific gram positive bacteria. These structures are also found on many other classes of bacteria and lead to the interesting possibility of determining a direct method for analysis by counting their numbers and determining a concentration. Indications show that these structures are intact after removal from the bacteria cell and are sufficiently different from species to species of bacteria to give an indication of bacteria type if not actual identification of the bacteria St. Geme III et al 1996 Fader et al 1982 See References cited . The pili removed from the bacteria were analyzed using the physical nanometer counting methodology in the Integrated Virus Detection System IVDS and Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry.

As indicated above bacteria are completely different types of microorganisms than viruses. They are a magnitude larger in size than viruses. Bacteria are classified in their own scheme. They have cell walls are organized into cellular components and generally are considered to be among the self sustaining organisms. In this sense viruses are sometimes not even considered to be alive and have a completely different life cycle than that of the viruses. These physical and physiological differences between bacteria and viruses render the development of a universal detector capable of their simultaneous detection and characterization.

Additionally Electrospray Ionization Mass Spectrometer ESI MS has been reported as an effective technique capable of providing accurate identification of various microorganisms based on their proteomic or genomic contents Yates III 1998 Thomas et al 1998 Krishnamurthy et al 2000 . Also the pili of the bacteria are made up mainly of protein molecules which makes ESI MS a suitable technique to interrogate these structures and provide a complimentary information to that that is obtained from their analysis using IVDS technique.

IVDS can differentiate particles from 5 950 nm in size. Bacteria are generally 0.5 1 micron wide and 2 3 microns long well outside the physical ability of IVDS. There are however interesting features on the surface of a bacterium that are in the proper size range for IVDS to characterize. The bacteria surface is more complex than that of the surfaces of ordinary cells. Gram negative bacteria named because of their inability to retain crystal violet iodine complex stain have rigid surface appendages called pili .

These hair like structures are around 7 nm in diameter and vary in length up to 25 nm for the longer flagellate Eisenberg. 1999 which are other nanometer sized structures that can be attached to the surface of bacteria. The pili are composed of structural protein sub units called pilins. Some structures have only one structural protein unit while other pili are more complex and have several. These pili consist of a precise helical arrangement of one or more types of protein and as indicated may have different lengths for different bacteria. Choudhury Choudhury et al 1999 and others discuss crystal complexes associated with pilin subunits. Cell lysis breaks the cell into components. Lysis can be achieved by changes in pH temperature and ultrasonication treatment or by addition of chemical reagents. The pili can then been treated as any nanometer particle separated and counted. Different pili proteins for different bacteria species can be expected. Evidence in this manner suggests that IVDS is capable of interrogating these virus sized bacteria components and in this manner detect bacteria.

Recent advances in the field of proteomics where it is desirable to obtain a comprehensive mapping of the expressed proteins in an organism provide a promising strategy to characterize bacteria using their protein biomarkers Fleischmann et al 1995 Bussey et al 1995 Yates III 1998 Thomas et al 1998 Krishnamurthy et al 2000 . Mass spectrometry MS is widely used in proteomic field for the characterization of various microorganisms by either identifying as many protein components as possible biomarkers Yates III 1998 or identifying one or several protein component s in a complex mixture Thomas et al 1998 Krishnamurthy et al 2001. Various MS techniques have been more extensively used to characterize bacteria than viruses Thomas et. al. 1998 Krishnamurthy et al 2000 Dai et al 1999 . Many factors attributed to this phenomenon such as the significant number of protein biomarkers encoded in bacteria and thermal stability bacterial proteins upon introduction into the ionization source of the MS Tong et al 1999 Karty et al 1998 Bothner et al 1999 Valegard et al 1990 .

MS had been also used to study the filamentous protein structures which are found in the pili part of bacterial cells Tito et al 2000 Thomas et. al. 1998 Cargile et al 2001 . Most studies were oriented toward the investigation of the post translation modification of the pili proteins that play important role in disease carrying from various microorganisms mainly Neiseseria meningitides Stimson et al 1996 . However attempts to investigate the pili proteins in using MS or IVDS has not reported in the literature. These studies address the characterization of the pili proteins of samples that were processed using various sample processing conditions and approaches. Using MS is a complimentary technique to IVDS where accurate and discriminatory characteristics and properties of the biomolecules are revealed.

A strain of ATCC 15561 was prepared according to manufacture protocol www.atcc.org. Briefly samples were produced by growing the bacteria on nutrient agar plates at 30 C. for 26 hrs. The bacterial cells were collected by scraping them into distilled water and pelleting them by centrifugation at 12 000 g for 10 minutes. The bacterial samples were washed four times in distilled water by centrifugation. The bacterial sample was re suspended in distilled water. A 0.5 ml aliquot of the stock solution was passed in and out of a 22 ga. needle to break the pili from the surface of the bacteria. The shearing action of repeated passages through the needle has been shown to remove pili from bacteria Baron et al 2001 . The sample was centrifuged at 12 000 rpm 10 000 g for 25 minutes to pelletize the large bacterial cells. The supernatant was collected and diluted 1 to 100 with 20 mlvi ammonium acetate for examination in the IVDS designated B52 . shows the peak associated with the bacterial pili between 10 and 12 nm.

The sample B52 was filtered by the Ultra Filtration UF subsystem of the IVDS using 100K Dalton filter for details on the IVDS and its different sub systems the reader is referred to a companion report Wick et al 2004 . The purpose of the filtration system is to remove any material with molecular weight smaller than the filtration system is set for 100K Daltons in this case such as growth media salt molecules and proteins from the solution Wick and McCubbin 1999 and leave a concentrated pili solution. The filtered sample was diluted 1 to 10 with 20 mM ammonium acetate before analysis with the IVDS. shows the ultrafiltered bacterial sample with the peak at 12 nm designated BS3 .

The original sheared sample was also ultrafiltered before dilution using a 100K Dalton filter and analyzed with the IVDS. After filtration the filtered sample was diluted 1 to 10 with 20 ml via ammonium acetate before analysis with the IVDS. shows the ultrafiltered neat bacterial sample with the peak at 12 nm designated BS1 .

An ion trap mass spectrometer LCQ Deca Thermo Finnigan USA equipped with an ESI ion source was used. The mass spectrometer was operated under the control of the XCaliber program with a manual deconvolution algorithm. Spectra were collected in the positive ion mode. Three microscans were used with a maximum ion injection time of 200 ms. The ESI spray voltage was maintained at 4 kV. The capillary voltage was maintained at 23 V and the temperature of the ion transport tube was 190 C. The mass spectrometer was calibrated to achieve a 2 Da resolution using a mixture of cytochrome c BSA insulin and myoglobin proteins.

The automated in house deconvolution algorithm was developed to provide a filtered mass list instead of a conventional peak at every mass output for the BSPS MS analysis of bacterial extracts. A detailed procedure for the automated in house software will be presented elsewhere. Briefly the in house software deconvolutes the bacterial protein masses through analysis of a raw mass spectral file. Mass range isotope peak width S N threshold and maximum number of returned peaks user input parameters were selected prior to the start of the deconvolution process. The software identified LC peaks and deconvoluted their corresponding average mass spectra to generate a list of masses. The total deconvolution process takes 10 minutes for a 60 minute BSPS ESI MS analysis time. The deconvolution process is interfaced with relational database management software to update the in house database with experimental bacterial protein masses.

The sample of that was sheared and shown in displays the pili protein at 12 nm next to a very large peak less than 10 nm that results from cellular and growth media contamination. The large contamination peak was removed by ultrafiltration of the sample. The ultrafiltration molecular weight cut off MWCO was 100K Daltons that allowed the removal of growth media and salts while retaining the pili fragments. After ultrafiltration the peak showing the pili in solution was more pronounced and not masked by other contaminants. To determine if the 1 to 100 dilution before ultrafiltration and IVDS analysis affected the pili the neat sample was ultrafiltered after shearing and centrifuging. As shown in the results from IVDS does not show any significant difference from the diluted and ultrafiltered sample shown in .

The unsurpassed sensitivity of ESI MS analysis to biomolecules is an ideal technique to utilize in order to determine the molecular weight of intact proteins and their identity. The expansion and extensive genomic and proteomic databases provide relevant information for the identity of the biomolecules present in the analyzed sample in this study. Application of Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LC MS to the characterization of biomolecules originated from various parts of bacterial cells has been successful in numerous studies Yates III 1998 Thomas et al 1998 Krishnamurthy et al 2000 Dai et al 1999 Jensen et al 1999 . In this study the samples underwent different sample processing approaches. Some samples were sheared and centrifuged without any further filtration these samples were labeled as BS 1. The other samples were exposed to similar sample processing but followed by centrifugation dilution and finally molecular weight cut off using 100K Dalton membrane to remove cellular debris and large particulates these samples were labeled as BS2 and BS3.

Comparison of the experimentally deconvoluted protein molecular weights with those that are presented in the public database Swissprot resulted in matching the former proteins with the outer coat and the extracellular proteins that are associated with pili and flagella parts of the bacterial cell Lei et al 1998 . The molecular mass lists of the bacterial proteins are shown in Table 2. This table also enlists the accession numbers that correspond with the identified protein obtained from the LC MS analysis of BS 1.

The LC MS analyses of the sheared and filtered BS2 and BS3 samples showed significant resemblance between their TIC plots and the dominant bacterial proteins identified. It is interesting to note that the TIC plots a and b in are characterized by a dominant peak that has same retention time observed in the LC MS analyses of these bacterial extracts. This dominant peak is an indication of significant expression of this protein compared to the other observed proteins. The mass spectra of this dominant peak revealed that the same protein was found in both samples with better S N observed in BS2 than that with BS3. The difference in S N ratio for that mentioned protein could be due to the fact that BS3 was diluted 100 fold than that of BS2. The identity of the peak revealed that it is a coat protein in which is an indication of the effectiveness of the sample processing approach in isolating the desired parts of the bacterial cells in this case the pili. It is also worth mentioning that this coat protein was observed in BS1 sample but with lower peak intensity that those observed in the TIC plots of BS2 and BS3 samples.

The LC MS data were further investigated to determine the data reproducibility and the effect of sample processing on the LC MS analyses of extracts. shows the reproducibility of the molecular weight of the experimentally deconvoluted proteins generated from the LC MS analyses of the extract samples. The masses generated for these samples were then averaged from three replicate LC MS analyses per each sample. The statistical correlation study showed a higher number of common masses were observed between BS2 and BS3 than that with BS1. also reflects the relevance of comparing the mass lists generated from differently processed bacterial extract samples because as the correlation factor among samples increase it indicates a resemblance in the sample processing approach as evident in this case. Sample BS2 and BS3 were processed under similar conditions with only difference in the dilution as compared to BS1. Additionally this observation was supported upon comparison of the deconvoluted mass lists generated for BS2 and BS3 where over 99 of the masses were matching with each other as shown in .

Comparison of the correlation in the masses among all samples is presented in Table 3 where the correlation factor of 99 match is observed between BS2 and BS3 as compared with 80 81 match with BS1. Overall the LC MS provided a confirmatory technique on the data obtained from the IVDS analysis. The similarity between the IVDS and LC MS analysis of the samples is observed. The similarity in comparing the IVDS data among the extract samples was also observed within their corresponding LC MS analyses.

The IVDS system is well suited for rapid physical measurements of the submicron pili of bacteria after mechanical removal. The pili were shown to be from through mass spectrometry analysis. The collected LC MS data of the bacterial samples showed that most detected proteins belonged to the pili region in the cell. The ability of LC MS to decipher the identity of the bacterial proteins and track their position in the bacterial cell qualify the LC MS technique to be a complimentary and confirmatory technique to the IVDS which identify the bacterial pili based on their size and concentration. Due to differences between the LC MS technique as compared to that of IVDS the pili samples may require further sample preparation prior to its analysis by LC MS as evident in the presence of interference peaks in some of the reported MS spectra see .

It may be possible with further experimentation to correlate the rapid identification of bacterial groups with the straightforward counting methodology of the IVDS and their proteomic identification capability using the LC MS technique.

