---

title: Method and apparatus providing a supply chain management system useful in outsourced manufacturing
abstract: A method is disclosed for automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate. According to this aspect, information representing one or more supply chain events is received from each of the supply chain partners in a database with which each of the supply chain partners may communicate over a public network. One or more rules are applied periodically to the supply chain event information, resulting in generating one or more alerts pertaining to one or more discrepancies that are found in the supply chain event information. The alerts are communicated to the supply chain partners who are participating in a transaction to which the discrepancies relate. Each alert remains active until second information is received that represents a second supply chain event that resolves the alert. According to one feature, the alerts are periodically escalated until they are resolved. A hub-and-spoke supply chain management system that facilitates the foregoing method, and other features, is also disclosed. In other aspects, the invention encompasses a computer apparatus, a computer readable medium, and a carrier wave configured to carry out the foregoing steps.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07426478&OS=07426478&RS=07426478
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 07426478
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070501
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 846 134 filed Apr. 30 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 216 086 the contents of which are fully incorporated herein.

The present invention generally relates to computer assisted management of manufacturing processes such as supply chain management. The invention relates more specifically to a method and apparatus providing a supply chain management system useful in outsourced manufacturing including a method of automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate.

Outsourced manufacturing is a method of making products or services in which a first enterprise researches and develops products and then contracts with one or more other enterprises to actually make and deliver the products or their components or subassemblies. Large business enterprises involved in developing many different products and services have rapidly turned to outsourced manufacturing in recent years as a way to provide flexibility in their operations. For example if a research enterprise has developed a product and suddenly receives a large increase in orders for the product the research enterprise can contract with multiple vendors to make and deliver the product and then discontinue the contracts when order volume decreases. Without outsourced manufacturing an enterprise is required to manage regular changes in manufacturing capacity at significant direct and indirect cost to the enterprise.

However one disadvantage of using outsourced manufacturing on a large scale basis is that the outsourcing enterprise loses a degree of control over the manufacturing process. For example if a contract manufacturer fails to receive timely deliveries of needed parts from one or more suppliers the manufacturer s production schedule may slip and the outsourcing enterprise cannot deliver products to its customers on time. Moreover the outsourcing enterprise typically receives no information about the existence or nature of such shortages or other problems that arise far down the supply chain because the outsourcing enterprise has no direct contractual relationship or communication with the downstream suppliers. The problems become known only when the contract manufacturer informs the outsourcing enterprise about a change in delivery schedule. When the outsourcing enterprise is a very large business organization with numerous products and an annual sales volume amounting to billions of dollars these problems become acute and unacceptable.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for a way to provide management of an outsourcing enterprise with visibility of events occurring in all parts of the supply chain i.e. end to end supply chain visibility. In addition management needs analysis tools to understand the impact of events occurring deep in the supply chain and to suggest relevant resolution options.

One approach to this need is to provide an enterprise resource planning ERP software system at the outsourcing enterprise and require all supply chain partners of the outsourcing enterprise to deploy and use the same ERP system so that compatible data files can be interchanged. Providers of ERP software systems include Baan Oracle SAP AG and others. Unfortunately deployment of such ERP systems including licensing installation and training is extremely expensive. The cost is normally beyond the resources of medium sized or smaller supply chain partners who otherwise produce quality products and form essential parts of the supply chain.

Still another need in this context relates to communicating instructions and information to supply chain partners who are located far down the supply chain from the outsourcing enterprise. In a typical enterprise when one or more new orders are received for a particular product the enterprise will initiate and communicate one or more new demand signals to its contract manufacturers asking them to start making products that the enterprise can use to fulfill its orders. If the contract manufacturers need new supplies of parts they must contact all appropriate vendors with separate signals or requests to supply the parts. If such suppliers also need component materials or other parts they must send separate signals or requests further down the supply chain. This process results in delay in ultimately completing the products needed by the enterprise and increases manufacturing costs. There is a need for the outsourcing enterprise to communicate new demand signals as far down the supply chain as necessary in a substantially concurrent way and as directly as possible so that all supply chain partners know as soon as possible that additional products are needed by the enterprise.

Similarly there is a need to communicate other kinds of signals requests or instructions from the outsourcing enterprise to all supply chain partners. For example the enterprise may wish to send material move signals supply status requests and receive exception conditions to or from all entities involved in the supply chain.

Another deficiency of past approaches pertains to decision making. In general existing systems provide no automated way to request action when problems arise and no way to guarantee that appropriate action is taken in response to problems. Thus there is a need for a way to issue alert messages in response to problems and to enforce an organized process of responding to and acting on the alerts.

There is also a need for a way to facilitate direct communication among the enterprise and downstream supply chain partners with which the enterprise has no direct contractual or transactional relationship.

The present invention comprises in one aspect a method for automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate. According to this aspect information representing one or more supply chain events is received from each of the supply chain partners in a database with which each of the supply chain partners may communicate over a public network. One or more rules are applied periodically to the supply chain event information resulting in generating one or more alerts pertaining to one or more discrepancies that are found in the supply chain event information. The alerts are communicated to the supply chain partners who are participating in a transaction to which the discrepancies relate. Each alert remains active until second information is received that represents a second supply chain event that resolves the alert.

A hub and spoke supply chain management system that facilitates the foregoing method and other features is also disclosed.

In other aspects the invention encompasses a computer apparatus a computer readable medium and a carrier wave configured to carry out the foregoing steps.

A method and apparatus providing a supply chain management system useful in outsourced manufacturing is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In general in one embodiment the disclosed method and apparatus uses a supply chain management database to enable a complete supply chain to have visibility of exceptions and critical success factors. A configurable user interface provides access to view and analyze critical alerts exceptions and success factors. Electronic alert notification occurs in response to any business rule violation and alerts may be dispatched via e mail pager or using a software application programming interface API . Advanced analysis reporting and data mining is available through integration with an online analysis database system.

Demand Side Partner An entity in the supply chain that is receiving something often a component of a product a chassis or an assembly from another entity in the supply chain. A synonym is Buyer. 

PM Part Master a reference database of a partner that stores basic information about the partner s parts or components.

Supply Side Partner An entity in the supply chain that is supplying something often a component of a product a chassis or an assembly to another entity in the supply chain. A synonym is Seller. 

Time Fence A period of time for performing a task defined by a start time end time and agreed upon percentage of time by which the start time or end time may vary. Time fences are the subjects of advance agreement Time Fence Agreement between partners.

The contract manufacturer A and contract assembler may receive component parts and raw materials from one or more sub contract manufacturers A parts suppliers A B and materials suppliers A B. The contract manufacturer A and contract assembler also may sub contract out for services that do not involve direct supply of tangible materials parts or assemblies such as chassis painting soldering etc.

For purposes of illustrating a clear example a small number of entities are shown in however in a practical business environment there may be hundreds or thousands of parties participating in the entire supply chain. Although all entities depicted in participate in the supply chain and considered are important supply chain partners enterprise is the focus of this description and is considered a central point or hub of information command and control and the other entities are viewed as spokes or supporting organizations around the hub. Further each of the partners have direct logical connections to supply chain management system and can contribute information to the system receive alerts from the system and generate reports relating to the supply chain and its other partners.

One or more administrative clients or users are communicatively coupled to supply chain management system directly or through one or more local networks . Each administrative user communicates with supply chain management system using a browser that is executed by a computer . Similarly one or more enterprise clients or users are communicatively coupled to supply chain management system directly or through one or more local networks . Each administrative user communicates with supply chain management system using a browser that is executed by a computer . Administrative users are distinguished from enterprise users in that administrative users have greater privileges to view and modify data in system .

In an embodiment supply chain partner data is formatted as one or more electronic documents that conform to one of the Partner Integration Processes or PIPs as defined by the RosettaNet consortium of information technology companies which is headquartered in Santa Ana Calif. In general RosettaNet PIPs define business processes between supply chain companies providing the models and documents for the implementation of standards. In an embodiment as described herein each PIP defines a type of supply chain electronic document based on Extensible Markup Language XML . Different PIPs correspond to different kinds of supply chain information. For example one PIP is used to structure data comprising purchase order information another PIP is used to convey materials order information etc. Each PIP has a unique identifying label. Examples of PIPs include 

In one example embodiment staging database is a relational database system e.g. Oracle Sybase etc. Alerts Database is a component of the NetWORKS ExchangeWorks Material software product of Manugistics Inc. and online analysis database is a component of the ONEview OLAP software system of Manugistics.

An administrative subsystem interacts with staging database to transform the supply chain partner data into validated data that is suitable for use in supply chain management. Administrative subsystem has a user interface that can interact with one or more administrative users through visual means such as graphical display terminals. A security mechanism manages addition and authentication of users.

A partner configuration mechanism enables an administrative user to define supply chain partners in the system and configure its operations to be compatible with new partners. Partner configuration mechanism includes means for creating and storing various kinds of Partner data. For example each partner may be designated by a Short Name e.g. a 10 character name for a partner that may be an abbreviation of the full name of the partner. This short name is used in summary alert displays and reports as appropriate. Partner configuration mechanism also includes means for adding partners to the supply chain management database with a flag that indicates that they are part of the system. There may be un flagged partners who are in the database but do not participate in system .

An alerts subsystem interacts with Alerts Database to generate and track alert messages when violations of pre defined supply chain management rules occur. A user interface enables one or more users to view alert messages obtain more detailed information about alerts and underlying electronic documents that resulted in the alerts drilling down establish and modify rules that result in alerts etc.

Rule logic provides a means for determining whether one or more stored rules are satisfied by information in Alerts Database . If a rule is satisfied then an alert message is generated in response to changes in information in Alerts Database .

Rule configuration mechanism enables creation and modification of rules that govern alerts. Rules are stored in Alerts Database in association with information about partners or PIPs. Rule configuration is provided using rule configuration mechanism for all appropriate rules for each partner. A partner can only have one rule configuration per rule type.

An alert initiation mechanism is responsible for creating an alert in response to a determination that one or more rules of rule logic are satisfied by current information in Alerts Database . When an alert is created alert delivery mechanism carries out delivery of the alert message through one or more means such as email pager or by calling programmatic functions or mechanisms. A user who receives an alert can respond by closing the alert or optionally escalating the alert to another user or responsible individual of a supply chain partner until satisfactory resolution of the alert occurs. Alert escalation mechanism manages communication of escalated alerts to the correct party within a particular supply chain partner. Escalation configuration is part of the rule configuration mechanism .

An analysis subsystem facilitates reporting and analysis of actions that have occurred alerts and general information in Alerts Database . Using a user interface users can access online analytical processing functions that are provided by OLAP mechanism and reports that are generated by report mechanism .

Using this structure an integrated supply chain management system is provided that effectively identifies communicates and tracks responses to exceptional events. In general the disclosed system provides a way to alert a user community to critical business information and business problems within the supply chain and provide a central interface to such information.

Embodiments may be implemented in one or more computer programs or other software elements that are executed by a general purpose server or other processor and accessed by users who use general purpose computers as clients. Such embodiments may be based upon or conform to the RosettaNet Implementation Framework its Dictionaries and PIPs. In such embodiments the computer programs or software elements cooperate to carry out the functions described herein. A collection of such software elements operating in cooperation to carry out such functions organized in the architecture described above and with data stored in the databases described above is collectively referred to herein as the system. 

In block supply chain partner data is received into Staging Database from one or more supply chain partners. In block the supply chain partner data is validated to ensure that it conforms to correct PIP syntax to ensure that all values are valid etc. Validated data is then imported into the Alerts Database from the Staging Database as shown by block . In block rule and alert processing is carried out using the data in Alerts Database as described below in connection with .

In block in parallel with carrying out block data is imported into the Analysis Database from the Staging Database and Alerts Database . Analysis database processing occurs using the data as shown by block and as described below in connection with .

In block a determination is periodically made about whether any rules in Alerts Database are satisfied with respect to any data in the Alerts Database. In one embodiment according to a periodic schedule rules for a particular partner or PIP are evaluated. If evaluation of a particular rule indicates that an alert is needed then an alert is created in memory and evaluated.

In block all alerts currently in existence are evaluated as detailed in the succeeding steps. In block a test is made to determine whether a particular alert is a new alert. If so then a persistent entry is created for the alert in an alert table of Alerts Database as indicated by block . If the alert already exists then no action is taken. If the alert has been resolved or repaired as indicated by information in Alerts Database then the alert is removed from the alert table.

Processes for notification and escalation of alerts as represented by block are configured to run on a periodic basis. In block the process determines whether there are any new alerts that have not been sent out to the appropriate recipient. If so then they are sent at this time. Notifications are consolidated or ordered by rule for a particular recipient as indicated by block . Thus in a message sent to a particular recipient all related alerts are grouped together. Block represents the step of sending alerts to a recipient using an email message pager message other communication mechanism or by calling a programmatic method to communicate alert data to an application program.

In block data in Analysis Database is re structured as necessary to support report generation and online analysis. For example in one embodiment data in Analysis Database is transformed into Data Mart format which provides structuring necessary for subsequent analysis and processing by the One View database. In block one or more batch reports are generated. Optionally report generation may include display at a user display terminal. In block one or more OLAP objects or displays which have been previously created and saved by a user are updated or refreshed using the re structured data. Such refreshing ensures that the OLAP objects or displays accurately reflect newly imported data.

Modes of information delivery offered by the system and processes described herein include alerts on demand reports and advanced analysis data. As described further in succeeding sections delivery of alerts includes providing a summary display of alerts detailed access to alerts and detailed views that provide supporting information about particular alerts drill downs .

Delivery of on demand reports includes providing on demand report data that is accessed and displayed using a standard browser program through one of the user interfaces . Delivery of reports may also include exporting report data to a formatted file e.g. a file of comma separated values or a printable version.

Delivery of advanced analysis data includes providing batch OLAP reports the ability to enter queries and receive responses and other advanced analysis functions. In an embodiment these advanced analysis functions are available to all supply chain partners alternatively they may be restricted to the core enterprise e.g. enterprise of .

In one embodiment access to alert information is provided through a graphical user interface that interacts with a browser client program through standard HTML code. To interact with the system a user directs a browser or other client to a pre defined Universal Resource Locator URL that identifies a startup page or script of the system . In response the system delivers one or more pages comprising the user interface to the client.

Selecting Administration button causes the system to generate a display that provides access to administrative functions. In an embodiment the administration user interfaces provides access to functions for the configuration of rules escalation approved vendor list and other system settings.

Display pane includes a rule pull down menu navigation links alert title bar field headings and alert data . The user interface provides access to alerts by rule type so that in one embodiment all alerts that are triggered by a particular type of rule are grouped together. A user views alerts corresponding to a particular rule by selecting the rule of interest from rule pull down menu . In a large enterprise that has a large number of supply chain partners there may be numerous users each of which is responsible for a selected sub group of the supply chain partners. In this arrangement each user accesses alerts based on the supply chain partner and part numbers for which that user has responsibility.

If there are a large number of alerts for a particular rule then the system displays the first 25 alerts and the user may view other alerts by selecting one of the navigation links . Although specific navigation links are shown in for the purpose of illustrating a simple example e.g. Previous 25 Next 25 First 25 Last 25 no particular navigation links are required and different such links may be provided in other embodiments.

Alert title bar identifies the name alerts that are displayed in the screen display. The name of the alert in the title bar is one of the rules specified in Table 1 herein. Field headings identify the type of data that is displayed in tabular format as alert data in successive lines within display pane . A user can sort information in alert data one column at a time in ascending or descending order by selecting one of the field headings . In response to such selection the system sorts the data using the selected field heading as a key generates an updated screen display based on the sort and provides the updated display to the browser.

When a user first connects to the system the initial view is a summary of all alerts for rules for the user as shown in . The system presents a summary view of alerts by rule type. Also an email is sent to the user for each rule and contains summary information. The purpose of the summary view and the email summary is to provide enough information to enable the user to prioritize and select what the user wants to work on next. Users can then work exclusively in a separate ERP system if desired or can access the system disclosed herein through a URL for more information.

Alert title bar presents the name of the current type of alerts that is displayed as in . Properties pane presents values for specific properties of the alert and the values correspond to those displayed in alert data under field headings in screen display of . Variance pane presents information about the number of times similar alerts have occurred for the same supply chain partner. Configuration pane presents information about variance configuration parameters i.e. what percent variance constitutes an exception condition and who has been configured to receive notification. Drilldown link pane presents one or more links selection of which causes the system to display even further detailed information relating to the alert. Typically the information accessible using links in drilldown link pane is supporting information rather than details of an alert. Further the specific drilldown links that are provided in pane are selected and displayed by the system based on the current rule type. Thus different drilldown link displays are provided in pane according to the nature of the rule type shown in title bar and only the drilldowns that are specifically associated with a particular rule are have links displayed in pane .

Table 1 presents a list of all available drill down views that can be potentially presented for rules. The section below entitled RULE LOGIC identifies the specific subset of drilldown views that are available for particular alerts.

Rules are scheduled to run on a periodic basis by partner for a particular rule. Alerts are the result set of a given rule and may comprise Data Alerts and Scheduled Alerts.

Referring again to Rule Configuration mechanism provides a way to create modify and delete one or more rules that determine whether alerts are triggered. In an embodiment separate rules are created stored and configured for each supply chain partner partner . A partner need not be configured for every rule.

In one embodiment rule configuration is carried out by direct access to Alerts Database . In an alternative embodiment a partner connects a Web browser to user interface to configure rules.

A rule comprises one or more properties that specify the criteria and threshold values for the rule. A rule includes one or more escalation properties that specify for each partner a role that should receive alerts and after what period of time i.e. initial 24 hours one week etc. . In an embodiment a user must have administration privileges in order to configure the escalation or notification levels for the partner with which the user is associated. When enterprise is specified as the third party participant in a transaction the role specified indicates the role found on the related forecasted part number s . The original alert may be associated with a lower level part number or an assembly etc. The role specified for the associated forecasted part number s is notified. For partners in general and for enterprise when it is the Buy Side participant in a transaction the role specified indicates the role found on the part number of the alert.

In operation when rules are configured Rule Logic mechanism determines whether rules are satisfied. Rule Logic mechanism communicates with Rule Configuration mechanism to determine tolerance values for satisfying a rule. Rule Logic mechanism checks all data in the Alerts Database to identify any condition that should result in an alert. Any alerts that are detected are stored in the database for further processing.

In an embodiment when each rule is run Rule Logic mechanism evaluates whether a new alert is to be generated or an existing alert needs to be cleared. When alerts are cleared or refreshed as in block they are archived and transferred to the Analysis Database . A detailed description of how rules are processed by Rule Logic mechanism is given herein in Section 3.

Alert escalation logic is configured to automatically escalate alerts. In this context escalation refers to sending information about an alert to individuals having an increasingly high level of authority or responsibility over a period of time until the alert is resolved.

In one embodiment based on pre defined alert escalation configuration information alert escalation logic moves an alert through one or more defined alert escalation states. The escalation configuration may define up to three states within each partner or perspective. A transition to a new escalation state is based on the amount of time that has elapsed since detection of the alert. Each partner involved may define its own escalation path.

In addition a user can manually escalate an alert. In one embodiment to manually escalate an alert the user starts at the alert details view and selects the Notification History drill down and the user then selects the Manually Escalate button on the user interface. The alert is then escalated to the next level. Future escalations will follow the normal escalation path timing based on the original alert.

Once an alert enters a state at which a user is required to be notified the Notification component is responsible for alert delivery. Any computer based automated delivery mechanism may be used e.g. email pager voice call etc. The alert notification process scans the alert tables and consolidates alerts to be sent to the appropriate recipients. The alerts are consolidated by user for a particular rule.

When alert delivery is carried out by email the alert e mail includes summary information about the alert of the same kind that is accessible in the user interface. The email alert also contains a URL that directs the user back to the summary data for the associated rule type so that detailed information may be obtained.

Referring again to and supply chain management system may receive source data for its databases and for generating alerts and reports from any of the partners A B etc. and are block diagrams illustrating electronic documents that are generated in planning procurement for products and for production showing the information that partners provide to the system.

Referring first to it is a block diagram of a process of providing planning information to a supply chain management system. In the planning process of participating partners include an end user contract manufacturer and distributor . In one embodiment end user is the same as enterprise CM makes and delivers finished products or assemblies to end user and CM receives parts and materials from distributor for use in manufacturing or assembly. Although shows only one distributor CM may interact with any number of distributors according to its needs for different parts. Supply chain management system receives data in the form of electronic documents from CM and distributor .

The planning process generally begins when CM issues a commit indicating that it is planning to produce a particular product. At commit time CM issues a PIP EA03 to system . At about the same time end user undertakes a manufacturing resource planning MRP process in order to determine its requirements for products resulting in generation of a forecast for its needs which is communicated to CM . Upon receipt of the forecast CM subjects the forecast to analysis resulting in generation of a master schedule . The master schedule is communicated to system as PIP EA01 and is provided as input to an MRP system or process of CM .

As a result CM determines the gross demand for the product in units or some other quantity. The gross demand is communicated to system as EA06 thereby enabling enterprise to know what number of units CM is anticipating making. If CM already has an inventory of such product then the CM does not need to make new product in a quantity equal to the entire gross demand. Accordingly inventory data is compared to gross demand to arrive at a net quantity value that represents the number of units that CM actually needs to make in order to meet anticipated demand. Based on the net value CM generates one or more planned PO s that are communicated to end user and system as PIP EA07.

Based on the planned PO s CM selects one or more distributors that can supply parts or materials that the CM needs to carry out its manufacturing work. Assume that distributor is one distributor that is selected and supplies one kind of component to CM . To obtain needed components CM generates a PO that is communicated to distributor . In response distributor internally generates a sales order that confirms the PO and represents a sale of components to CM . Based on SO and any other related SO s distributor generates a master schedule that states what components the distributor plans to deliver and when among other information. Master schedule is communicated to end user and system as PIP EA01.

Thus end user and system acquire information showing not only what its direct contractor CM is planning to produce and deliver but also what all downstream component distributors are planning to deliver up the supply chain. Unlike past approaches in this approach end user and system acquire information needed to determine when problems far down the supply chain e.g. at distributor may disrupt the production or delivery schedules of CM or end user .

Master schedule of distributor is provided as input to an MRP system or process of distributor . As a result distributor determines the gross demand for the ordered component. The gross demand is communicated to system as EA06 thereby enabling enterprise to know what number of components distributor is anticipating making or obtaining from a downstream supplier. If distributor already has an inventory of such product then the distributor does not need to make new product in a quantity equal to the entire gross demand. Accordingly inventory data is compared to gross demand to arrive at a net quantity value that represents the number of units that distributor actually needs to make in order to meet anticipated demand. Based on the net value distributor generates one or more planned PO s and issues them to one or more downstream component suppliers or other partners. The planned PO s also are communicated to end user and system as PIP EA07.

A partner acting as Buyer creates or has on hand one or more planned PO s . For example planned PO s may correspond to planned PO s or planned PO s of . From among planned PO s Buyer selects Seller to supply a particular component to the Buyer. Accordingly Buyer generates a PO for Seller for a particular component. PO is communicated to end user and system as PIP EC01 and is also communicated to Seller . In response Seller subjects PO to analysis as indicated by block and then generates an acknowledgment to Buyer and an internal sales order . The SO is communicated to end user and system as PIP EC04.

Additionally or alternatively Buyer may generate a blanket purchase order which is communicated to Seller and to system as PIP EC02. Seller subjects the blanket purchase order to analysis and then generates and sends an acknowledgment to Buyer . Further Seller generates a blanket sales order in confirmation of the blanket purchase order which is communicated to end user and system as PIP EC04. When a blanket purchase order is in the system a Buyer may obtain components based on one or more planned PO s by converting one of the planned PO s into a BPO release . Thus use of a BPO release represents an alternative to proceeding from a planned PO to a PO . When a BPO release occurs it is communicated to end user and system as PIP EC02 and to Seller . In response Seller carries out analysis and generates an acknowledgment . Seller may also issue a new BSO .

Thus end user and system acquire detailed information about all parts available from all supply chain partners including based identification information approved vendors and sub components. As a result end user and system can determine when shortages or disconnects in the supply chain may affect the ability of a supply chain partner to deliver. End user and system also can identify alternative sources of supply for the same part component assembly or sub component and issue appropriate orders or requests.

Alternatively a work order may be generated by a pull system of the end user that issues a trigger to the CM . In this alternative a software system of the end user essentially orders the CM to make a particular component in a particular quantity. This action is appropriate for example where end user needs an immediate delivery of a particular component or becomes aware of a disconnect at some point in the production process.

Further inventory information and work orders may be generated by a pull system of the CM in response to a trigger . Please elaborate on when and why this is done. Trigger is communicated to end user and system as a PIP EB03.

In another embodiment or optionally capacity information is communicated from CM to end user and system . Capacity information represents the total manufacturing capacity of the CM for a particular component. Having capacity information is useful to end user in determining whether to issue a trigger in determining whether to select CM or turn to another CM for a particular component etc.

Report mechanism is configured to generate one or more reports on demand in response to selection of criteria or in response to receiving user input. In one embodiment the available on demand reports include an Aggregate Net Demand report Allocated Part Supply Demand report Supply Commit report Supply Split report and Potential Excess Obsolete report.

According to an embodiment User and Role configuration is provided in an LDAP Profile of a directory server that is associated with the system. Values that can be configured include Company Userid e mail and Role Admin and User. The Web server provides authentication.

A user who has the Admin role is allowed administrative access to Rule Configuration and Partner information for the Partner this user belongs to. If the Partner is the enterprise then the user has access to additional functionality such as running the import etc. A user who has the User role is allowed access to Alerts and On Demand Reports through the user interface for the Alerts that have been sent to this user and or the Report data for this Partner. If the user is a user employed by or otherwise closely associated with enterprise then the user has access to alerts they have been sent on behalf of their partners.

In the following section a summary of logical actions taken by rule logic is presented for each rule that is recognized in the system according to one example embodiment. For clarity and brevity rule logic is presented in the form of a table. For each rule the table has rows entitled Rule Processing Data Dependencies Rule Properties Escalation Properties Alert Summary Display and Drill Downs if applicable.

The Rule Processing row gives the specific logical steps that are carried out by a particular rule. The Data Dependencies row indicates what data is required to be received or stored before a rule is executed if proper results are desired. The Rule Properties row indicates what attribute values are required to evaluate the rule. The Escalation Properties row identifies the number of escalation levels and the parties who participate in escalation of an alert related to the rule. The Alert Summary Display row indicates the data values that are presented in a summary view of alert information and the Alert Detail Display indicates data values that are presented in a detailed view of the alert. The Drill Downs row identifies one or more additional detailed views that are available to obtain further information about an alert. The Resolution row specifies what conditions must be satisfied for an alert to achieve resolution.

An Expected Delivery Disconnect rule is provided to identify differences between the Buy Side Partner s PO delivery date and quantity and the Sell Side Partner s Sales Order delivery date and quantity.

An Unplaced Purchase Order rule is provided to identify planned purchase orders for which an actual purchase order has not yet been placed.

A Late Purchase Order Receipt rule is provided to identify purchase orders that have late receipts to the Buy Side Partner.

A Late Sales Order Shipment rule is provided to identify sales orders having late ship dates to the Buy Side Partner.

A Late Trigger Start rule is provided to identify Work Orders having late starts to the enterprise based on late trigger starts.

A Supply Demand Disconnect rule is provided to identify when a Partner s Gross Component Demand exceeds its Supply over the course of the planning period.

The excess available at another partner property of the Alert Detail Display provides a display of the quantity of a particular component that is available at another partner. To support the excess visibility feature the partner is configured to participate in showing excess visibility. If the setting in the partner configuration file of Partner Configuration mechanism is Yes then the Partner can see other Partner s excess as well as show their available excess. If the setting in the partner file is No then they can neither see the excess of other partners nor show their excess. Excess exists when all time cumulative supply is greater than cumulative demand for all time periods through the lead time.

An MRP Profile rule provides a dashboard summary by Partner that illustrates the impact to the supply chain due to MRP changes for all of their part numbers.

A Baseline Forecast Disconnect rule is provided to identify the difference between the Buy Side Partner s baseline forecast and the forecast of the partner for the current week.

To support this rule a table is stored in the database that will have a row for each Fiscal Quarter Forecast Period start date for the enterprise. This table will consist of two columns PERIOD NAME and START DATE. The period name will be a string naming the period FY 2000 Q4 for example. The start date will be the date of the first day in the period. To determine the fixed baseline forecast date to be used the closest Fiscal Quarter Period Start that is less than or equal to the current date will be used.

A Forecast Time Fence Disconnect rule is provided to identify the difference between Enterprise s Current Forecast and the previous week s forecast against the Partner s Time Fence Agreement.

A Lead Time Disconnect rule is provided to identify differences in Lead Times between a Buy Side Partner and a Sell Side Partner.

A Sales Order Change rule is provided to identify PO s that are changing and will affect current Sales Orders.

A Top Level Demand Disconnect rule is provided to identify the difference between the forecast of the enterprise and the contract manufacturer s MPS load.

A Lead Time Delivery Date Disconnect rule is provided to identify purchase orders that have been placed with Lead Times different than quoted Lead Times.

A Summary Bill of Material Disconnect rule is provided to identify the difference between Summary Bill of Materials for the enterprise and a Control Partner.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in one or more sequences of computer program instructions that are stored on computer readable media and executed by one or more processors. For the purpose of clarity and completeness an example implementation of a computer system and computer readable media are now described.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

The invention is related to the use of computer system for automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate. According to one embodiment of the invention automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate is provided by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punchcards papertape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal. An infrared detector can receive the data carried in the infrared signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the worldwide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves transporting the information.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface . In accordance with the invention one such downloaded application provides for automatically identifying and resolving one or more discrepancies in an outsourced manufacturing supply chain in which a plurality of supply chain partners participate as described herein.

Processor may execute the received code as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

