---

title: Method and system for accessing wireless account information
abstract: A method for managing wireless account information. A list of applications is presented via a web interface on a computing device. The applications are operable to run on a wireless handheld device and a plurality of billing options are presented. In response to receiving a selection of an application, a wireless account is updated via a link between a web account and a wireless account according to the selected application, such that the selected application is available when a wireless account is accessed via a wireless handheld device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07979350&OS=07979350&RS=07979350
owner: GoTV Networks, Inc.
number: 07979350
owner_city: Sherman Oaks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071023
---
Embodiments of the present invention relate to the field of wireless communication systems. More particularly embodiments of the present invention relate to a method and system for accessing wireless account information.

The widespread increase in the number of wireless devices has increased the demand and the corresponding opportunity for businesses to provide applications content and services for various wireless devices.

The limited abilities of wireless devices further complicate otherwise simple tasks. Unfortunately most wireless devices are plagued by small screens and small or limited keypads which make it cumbersome and difficult to type information. Users often identify themselves to a resource via a username and password however on a wireless device the entry of a username and password can be a lengthy process. Further purchases such as software or applications are likewise complicated by the limited interfaces of wireless devices. For example if a user wishes to purchase an application it can quickly become time consuming and frustrating for a user to enter billing information such as a credit card and billing address via a 10 digit keypad of most cellular phones. Moreover some wireless devices lack the resources necessary to create secure connections needed for safe and secure purchases.

Businesses further require an efficient and effective way to bill customers for the services or products provided. Often times each wireless carrier has a proprietary billing platform which requires developers to tailor the software billing system to each carrier. Any changes to the carriers billing system may necessitate substantial changes by developers and thus more work for developers. Furthermore the various billing platforms may have different abilities with regard to frequency of billing and other billing attributes. For example a billing platform may not support recurring billing. Such a lack of support may run counter to a software vendor s business model. Thus efficient and effective selling of wireless applications requires that both user and software developers be able to purchase and charge customers accordingly.

Thus a need exists for a solution that facilitates the easy purchase of services and software for wireless devices and allows flexibility in the type of billing. What is further needed is an interface for users to easily and efficiently initiate purchases of products and services for the wireless devices without being required to use the limited interfaces of wireless devices.

Accordingly a need has arisen to enable software vendors to provide a convenient way for users to purchase applications services and content and thereby allowing users to purchase applications without having to use the limited interfaces of the wireless device. Moreover a need has arisen to have flexibility in billing users and relieve software vendors of tailoring billing systems to each carrier or service provider. It will become apparent to those skilled in the art after reading the detailed description of the present invention that the embodiments of the present invention satisfy the above mentioned needs.

According to one embodiment the present invention is implemented as a method for managing wireless account information. The method includes presenting via a web interface on a computing device a list of applications which are operable to run on a wireless handheld device. A selection of an application is then received from the computing device and a plurality of billing options may then be presented. In response to receiving the application selection and billing option selection a wireless account is updated via a link between a web account and a wireless account such that the selected application is available when the wireless account is accessed via a wireless handheld device.

In another embodiment of the present invention the present invention is implemented as a method for account management. The method includes receiving a first message to create an account. In response to the first message a second message is sent to a wireless device including an identifier. Upon receiving a third message including the identifier a web account is created. A link may then be established between the web account and a wireless applications account.

In another embodiment the present invention is implemented as system for accessing information for wireless applications. The system includes an account management component for managing web accounts and the associated authentication information. The web accounts are created and associated with a corresponding wireless device account by an account setup component. The wireless device account information may be accessed through a wireless device account interface component. The system further includes a billing component for managing billing and thereby purchasing of applications.

In this manner embodiments of the present invention relieve users of having to use the limited interfaces of wireless devices to purchase applications services and content because a web interface allows use of a computer to conduct the transactions in ways familiar to users. Moreover embodiments of the present invention allow billing to be conducted independent of the carrier s billing platform and thus in a flexible manner. Thus software vendors and developers are relieved of having to tailor billing systems to each carriers billing platform.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with these embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternative modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore in the following detailed description of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will be evident to one ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the invention.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of procedures steps logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits that can be performed on computer memory. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure computer executed step logic block process etc. is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities.

Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computer system. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the present invention discussions utilizing terms such as processing or creating or transferring or executing or determining or instructing or issuing or halting or clearing or accessing or aggregating or obtaining or selecting or initiating or receiving or analyzing or generating or constructing or outputting or collecting or monitoring or outputting or storing or sending or receiving or identifying or using or rendering or translating or providing or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The increase in the number of wireless devices has led to a demand for efficient and easy way to sell users wireless applications content and services. However conventionally billing methods require software billing systems to be tailored to the wireless carrier or service provider s billing platform. Embodiments of the present invention relieve software vendors from tailoring their billing systems to each specific carrier and allow software vendors to provide an easy way for users to purchase applications content and services for their wireless devices. Moreover embodiments of the present invention provide centralized location for managing and purchasing of applications for wireless devices. Thus users are able to purchase and access applications without having to use the limited interfaces of wireless devices.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the remote server hosts wireless accounts which may be a plurality of wireless applications content and or service accounts. The accounts may include information such as the type s of wireless device s billing information e.g. payment plan payment method expiration date and applications associated with the account. Remote server may run generic applications which are then customized for display on wireless devices .

In one embodiment web server executes a web server application which allows web server to communicate with various web clients e.g. web client running web browsers and the like. Web client may be any computing system e.g. desktop laptop or the like capable of running or executing a web client such as a web browser for communicating with web server .

According to one embodiment of the present invention web server provides an interface for web clients to create and access web accounts and further provides a link between web accounts and wireless accounts . This link allows user to change and access properties of a wireless account via a web client. Advantageously the ability to make changes to a wireless account allows the selection and purchase of applications and corresponding billing information to be entered quickly and conveniently via the web client e.g. desktop or laptop as opposed to via the wireless devices . For example entering a billing address and credit card number via a wireless device can be quite time consuming. Thus embodiments of the present invention harness the power of the internet to allow users to quickly and efficiently manage their wireless applications content accounts.

System further allows a consumer s applications account e.g. wireless accounts to be independent of a carrier or service provider. For example if a user changes wireless carriers the new wireless device may be added to the current wireless applications account e.g. wireless accounts and thereby allow the user to keep using the purchased wireless applications and any associated customizations without requiring changes or interruption to application access. In another embodiment system may further be integrated with a service provider s e.g. wireless carrier website. For example a wireless carrier may include system within the carrier s website to sell applications to users.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing embodiments includes a general purpose computing system environment such as computing system environment . Computing system environment may include but is not limited to servers. In its most basic configuration computing system environment typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing system environment memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. System memory may include among other things a web server application. Computing system environment may further include additional storage media as illustrated in by non removable storage and removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

Computing system environment may also contain communications connection s that allow it to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Communications connection s may allow computing system environment to communication over various networks types including but not limited to Bluetooth Ethernet Wi fi Infrared Data Association IrDA Local area networks LAN Wireless Local area networks WLAN wide area networks WAN such as the internet serial and universal serial bus USB . It is appreciated the various network types that communication connection s connect to may run a plurality of network protocols including but not limited to transmission control protocol TCP internet protocol IP and hypertext transfer protocol HTTP .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks or the like. Volatile media includes dynamic memory and the like.

The claimed subject matter is described in terms of these example environments. Description in these terms is provided for convenience only. It is not intended that the invention be limited to application in this example environment. In fact after reading the following description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the claimed subject matter in alternative embodiments.

Account manager facilitates management of web accounts and the associated authentication information. Account manager presents an authentication interface e.g. username and password prompt or page for access to web accounts. Account manager may act similar to a portal in providing a plurality of options such as a section for purchasing applications services and content as well as managing account information such as billing and authentication information. Account manager may further allow users to apply customizations to the web interface such as skins or custom graphical user interface objects e.g. icons and colors and layouts.

Billing Component manages billing and purchasing of applications. Billing component may complete payment collection from a user or subscriber. For example the billing component may carry out the charging of a customer s credit or debit card. It is appreciated that billing component may accept payment in the various forms that various Internet e commerce sites allow. In another embodiment billing component may also support charging a user s service provider account where possible.

Additionally billing component allows the purchase of wireless applications and or associated content via a wide variety of billing options. For example purchase options may include a number of use trial e.g. use only three times one day trial one month several month subscription or recurring subscription.

Billing component may further determine the expiration time and or date of an application purchase in the wireless account. Upon attempting to access an expired application the wireless device may display a message informing the user that the current application is expired and he she may update their subscription access to the application via a web interface as describe herein. It is appreciated that the wireless device may allow the user to purchase renewed or continued access via the wireless device.

Account setup component facilitates creating a web account and wireless accounts and associating the web accounts with a corresponding wireless device account. Account setup component may perform a process e.g. process as described herein for creating a web account and verifying or confirming communication with the wireless device e.g. sending a message with an identifier or identification information .

Account setup component may also receive and store login information for use later by account manager . Account setup component may further store information with a web client to allow quick return access upon the revisiting of a user. For example upon creation of an account account setup component may facilitate the creation of a cookie on a web client which can be later used to verify the client was previously authenticated.

In addition account setup component may present various advertisements including advertisements for wireless applications services and associated content. It is appreciated that such advertising is well suited for presentation via a web interface.

Customization component allows for customizing information related to the wireless device account. Customization may allow selection of one or more application objects e.g. RSS feeds location information information components or modules such as a sports module user information etc. and visual objects e.g. icons skins and the like to be added to an application. For example a user may be able to select several RSS Really Simple Syndication feeds for viewing in a news application on a cellular telephone. It is appreciated that selecting and otherwise entering RSS feed information e.g. URLs could be cumbersome and time consuming to enter via a wireless device e.g. cellular telephone .

Similarly customization component may facilitate the selection of bookmarks contact or buddy lists sports teams and email login information. Thus customization component allows a user to quickly and easy add information via the powerful web interface of a web client and avoid the complications of doing so via a wireless device. It is appreciated that some or all functions available via customization component may be accessed via a wireless device e.g. cellular telephone .

Wireless device account interface facilitates access to wireless device account information. Wireless device account interface may further facilitate the modification of wireless device accounts stored on a remote server e.g. server or accounts stored locally on a server. It is appreciated that wireless device account interface may update wireless device accounts in a plurality of ways including but not limited to application programming interfaces APIs or database access. More specifically wireless account interface may update the wireless account immediately after an application has been purchased.

Wireless device account interface may further allow communication between wireless users and internet users. For example a chat application may be purchased which allows the wireless device users to communicate with computer users. As described herein customization component may allow a user to create add and modify a list of buddies to be presented in the chat application.

Sending component facilitates sending of a purchased application service or content to a different wireless account. In one embodiment sending component facilitates the delivery of an application as a gift for a user. For example a user may purchase an application as a birthday gift for a friend e.g. identified by the friend s phone number and the friend will receive a notification message that an application has been purchased and may be accessed by going to wireless applications browser list or client. If the user does not currently have a wireless applications account sending component may send an SMS message with a link to download the client for accessing wireless applications.

In another embodiment sending component may also push a purchased application to a phone. The wireless device may request a list of applications upon startup and receive e.g. via a push information related to the new applications. For example a newly purchased software application may require a skin or set of images to be pushed to the wireless device for quick viewing in the future.

Different blocks have been described as separate units. However it is appreciated that each functional unit described herein may be integrated as a single working unit. As such depiction of functional units as separate units is exemplary and should not be construed as limiting the scope of the present invention.

The following discussion sets forth in detail the operations of the present technology for account management. With reference to flowcharts and each illustrate example blocks used by various embodiments of the present technology. Flowcharts and include processes that in various embodiments are carried out by a processor under the control of computer readable and computer executable instructions. The computer readable and computer executable instructions reside for example in data storage features such as computer memory removable storage and or non removable storage of . The computer readable and computer executable instructions are used to control or operate in conjunction with for example processing unit of . Although specific blocks are disclosed in flowcharts and such blocks are examples. That is embodiments are well suited to performing various other blocks or variations of the blocks recited in flowcharts and . It is appreciated that the blocks in flowcharts and may be performed in an order different than presented and that not all of the blocks in flowcharts and may be performed.

At block a secure connection is established. In one embodiment the secure connection e.g. via secure sockets layer SSL or the like is established between a client e.g. web client and a computing system such as a server e.g. web server . It is noted that the client may be a computing system that executes a web browser. The secure connection allows the communication of login and billing information which might otherwise be insecure if communicated via a wireless device.

At block an account interface is presented. In one embodiment the account interface may be presented via a software based unit e.g. account manager . The account interface may be a web interface including a plurality of static and dynamic pages presented to a user via a web browser or may be presented to a user via a specialized or customized application for running natively on a computer operating system. The account interface allows a user to authenticate themselves e.g. via login name and password . Users may further be able to store pertinent information including but not limited to contact information billing information phone model and service provider. It is noted that a user may repeatedly access the account interface to update information and change application related options such as customizations. The interface may further allow the user to create web and associated wireless accounts as well as managing wireless applications including remove applications from his her wireless account.

At block a list of applications is presented. The account interface described herein may allow a user to browse and find applications services and content in a variety of ways including but not limited to searching categories and lists such as most popular. A list of the applications that a user currently has associated with his her wireless account may also be presented.

At block information related to an application is presented. The list of applications may contain descriptions pictures sounds and video associated with an application. For example a description and animated image showing various screens of an application may be presented. The information may also contain cost and minimum or optimal device requirements.

At block an interactive version of an application is presented. In one embodiment interactive versions capable of running in the web interface or the application interface may be presented. The interactive versions may allow users to try the applications or service with partial or complete functionality. For example a news application which uses RSS feeds may be presented and the user will be able to navigate around as if he she was using the application via a wireless device e.g. cellular telephone .

At block an application selection is received. As described herein the application selection may be received from a web client e.g. web client . For example a user may select an application that he she is interested in purchasing and select the application for immediate purchase. In one embodiment a user may add a selected application to a shopping cart for later purchase.

At block a plurality of billing options are presented. In one embodiment the billing options may be presented as part of checkout process. A wide variety of billing options may be presented as described herein including but not limited to use based trial one day trial one month several month subscription or recurring subscription.

At block a request is received to purchase the selected application. As described herein the request to purchase a selected application may be received from a web client e.g. web client . The request may include a selected application and the selected billing option as described herein. In one embodiment as described herein the request to purchase the application may have been initiated from a shopping cart or checkout interface or page.

At block an expiration is set. In one embodiment the expiration is set immediately in the wireless device account. The expiration may be set via a software based unit e.g. billing module . The expiration corresponds to billing options selected and be set accordingly in the wireless device account. For example if a several month subscription was selected the expiration date will be several months from the current date. In another example if the user selects a recurring subscription an appropriate expiration date may be set to 00 00 0000 or other symbol. It is appreciated that the date could also include more information such as time of day or application use count.

At block application customization options are presented. In one embodiment the customization options may be presented and stored via a software based unit e.g. customization module . Cutomization options as described herein allow a user to select one or more application objects e.g. RSS feeds location information information components or modules such as a weather module user information etc. and visual objects e.g. icons skins layouts and the like to be added to an application.

At block the wireless device account is updated. The wireless account e.g. one of wireless accounts as described herein is updated to include the newly purchased application and expiration. In one embodiment the wireless device account may also be updated with an customization options that have been selected.

At block a web interface is presented for creating an account. In one embodiment a web interface may be presented via a software based unit e.g. account manager . A user can enter authentication information such as username and password information as well as billing information e.g. credit card billing address and the like . The web interface may further facilitate convenient access by allowing a user to stay logged in e.g. not require reentry of authentication information such as with the use of cookies. It is noted that the secure updating of the wireless account via the web interface allows the phone to access the wireless account without requiring authentication e.g. username and password via the wireless device.

At block a first message to create an account is received. The first message may include a phone number electronic serial number or the like which may be used to determine carrier or service provider as well as the phone model. In one embodiment the message may be issued from the web interface via a web browser e.g. executing on web client .

At block a second message with an identifier is sent to a wireless device as described herein. In one embodiment the message may be an SMS Short Message Service message. The identifier or identification information may include an identification code or key e.g. hash password or the like which may be a unique identifier. The identification information may also include a link e.g. URL that contains unique identification information.

At block a third message is received including the identifier from the second message previously sent. The identifier may be verified or confirmed by having the information e.g. key entered into the web interface e.g. via web client . The identifier may also be verified by the following of a link e.g. URL via the wireless device. This verification ensures the system is dealing with the owner of the wireless device.

At block a web account is created. In one embodiment the web account e.g. one of web accounts may be created by the execution of a software based unit e.g. account setup module . The web account may contain login information billing info phone number and other wireless device information. In one embodiment the authentication information is stored e.g. via a cookie on a computing device e.g. web client for return access.

At block a link is established between the web account a wireless applications account. In one embodiment the link between the web account e.g. one of web accounts and the wireless applications account e.g. one of wireless accounts may be established by a software based unit e.g. account setup module . The link may allow users to see all the applications that he she currently has access to via his her wireless device e.g. cellular telephone and to add applications to his her wireless account as described herein.

At block customization options associated with said wireless applications account are presented. In one embodiment the customization options may be presented and stored via a software based unit e.g. customization module . As described herein the customization options may allow the customization of wireless applications and the web interfaces. For example any default applications or applications with free trials may be may require a skin or set of images or RSS feed to be selected.

Accordingly applications can be purchased and customized for a wireless account with the ease of a web interface. Users are able to quickly and easily purchase applications via a familiar web interface without having to use the limited interface of a wireless device. Software vendor and developers are relieved from having to tailor their applications to the various billing systems of diverse carriers or service providers. Moreover businesses are able to charge customers in any format e.g. one time billing recurring billing or the like and thereby not limited by the abilities of a carriers billing systems.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

