---

title: Opportunity index for identifying a user's unmet needs
abstract: An importance rating for a survey question is received from a respondent, wherein the survey question is associated with a product feature. A satisfaction rating for the survey question is received from the respondent. An opportunity index is computed for the survey question based on the importance rating and the satisfaction rating, wherein the opportunity index indicates respondent needs which are important to the respondent and not currently satisfied by the product feature. The opportunity index is then output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07991648&OS=07991648&RS=07991648
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07991648
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071030
---
A company may conduct market research to discover the reaction of users to the company s products. For example the company may give surveys to users to gather data. The survey data may then be analyzed to discover ways the company may change its product to further please users.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key critical elements of the invention or delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to an opportunity index for identifying a user s unmet needs. In embodiments herein users may rate product features on importance and satisfaction. These ratings are then used to calculate an opportunity index that indicates user needs that are important to the user but not currently satisfied.

Many of the attendant features will be more readily appreciated as the same become better understood by reference to the following detailed description considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The detailed description provided below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of the present examples and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present examples may be constructed or utilized. The description sets forth the functions of the examples and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the examples. However the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by different examples.

As part of market research efforts to identify product development priorities a company may conduct research into users experiences with the company s products. Within this type of research the goal is to identify key areas of unmet needs user needs which are important to the user and not currently satisfied by the product. As used herein the term product may also include service s . For example embodiments of the invention may be used by an appliance retailer to conduct research on its appliance installation services.

In embodiments herein unmet user needs are expressed numerically using an opportunity index. Embodiments of the opportunity index have possible scores ranging from 0 to 100 . This 0 100 scaling makes the opportunity index easy for human consumption. Zero implies there is no incremental value a company can bring to users with additional features innovations directed at meeting that need and 100 indicates immense potential opportunity to bring value to users by satisfying users current unmet need. By focusing product development efforts on the areas having a high opportunity index a company may provide more value for users and differentiate its products in meaningful ways from competitors.

OI application may include a survey module and an OI engine . Survey module may present a survey to respondent and receive the respondent s answers to the survey questions. It will be appreciated that a survey question is not necessarily phrased as a question but may include a statement to which the user responds. Data collected by survey module may be provided to OI engine for computing an opportunity index based on the respondent s responses to the survey. OI application may output OI index results . OI index results may be stored on computing device sent to another computing device connected to computing device by a network or sent to an output device such as a monitor printer and the like.

In one embodiment computing environment may be implemented using multiple computing devices. For example client devices may execute OI application for surveying multiple respondents and computing the opportunity indexes. Opportunity index data collected at each client device may be sent to a central computing device for aggregation and analysis. In one embodiment OI application may be executed on each client computing device using an Internet browser and send the resulting opportunity index data to a central Internet server.

In another embodiment components of OI application may be dispersed across multiple computing devices. For example survey module may be executed on multiple client computing devices. The survey data is sent to a central computing device that executes OI engine to compute the opportunity index for each respondent.

In one embodiment the survey includes two ratings for a survey question importance and satisfaction. For example the respondent may first be asked to rate how important a particular product feature is to the respondent. The respondent may then be asked to rate how satisfied they are with this particular feature. In one embodiment if the importance rating is below a threshold then the satisfaction rating is skipped for that particular feature. A survey question may address topics including but not limited to a current product feature a need statement user activity and the like.

Referring to an example survey is shown. Survey is asking the respondent to provide an importance rating for product feature shown at and product feature shown at . The respondent rates each feature on an integer scale of 1 to 9 where a 1 rating is the low Not Important and a 9 rating is the high Extremely Important . The survey may also include a rating of 0 for rating the feature as Not Applicable or Not have done used. The respondent may also be asked to rate their satisfaction with product features and when their importance rating is above a threshold. In one embodiment survey questions are presented to respondents in a randomized order to prevent order effects that may influence the survey results.

It will be appreciated that a product may have various product features. For example a drink product may have features such as taste color bottle shape etc. that may be surveyed. Using the example in product feature may be associated with the drink taste and product feature may be associated with the drink color.

Embodiments of the opportunity index algorithm are based on a broad scale for importance and satisfaction ratings e.g. scale of 1 9 as opposed to 1 5 in order to avoid range restriction and provide better data for analysis based on correlation matrices e.g. correlation cluster analysis confirmatory and exploratory factor analysis etc. . For example from previous testing importance and satisfaction ratings based on a 1 5 scale resulted in range restriction and multi colinearity among the variables.

Turning to a flowchart shows operations of computing an opportunity index in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In one embodiment at least a portion of flowchart may be implemented by computer readable instructions executable by one or more computing devices. In one embodiment the operations of flowchart may be conducted by OI application . While flowchart shows operations for computing the opportunity index for a single survey question it will be appreciated that the logic of flowchart may be repeated for each survey question.

Starting with operation a respondent rates importance of a survey question e.g. on a scale of 1 9 . Next in operation the logic determines if importance has been rated above an importance threshold e.g. above a 3 rating . If the answer is no then the logic proceeds to operation where the respondent does not rate satisfaction. After operation the logic moves to the next survey question and flowchart restarts at operation .

In one embodiment to help address the survey length challenges typical in market research and to lessen the burden on respondents respondents only rate a survey question on satisfaction if they rate the importance at 4 thru 9. If the respondent has no experience with the survey question e.g. using a product feature then the respondent does not rate importance or satisfaction. If the respondent rates the importance as 1 3 then survey question topic is of low importance to the respondent. Since a company would probably not be able to develop a strong value proposition by addressing this survey question topic the survey does not measure the respondent s satisfaction with the survey question. Only respondents who rate both importance and satisfaction for a survey question are included in the opportunity score calculations for that survey question.

By limiting the base of respondents in the opportunity index the opportunity score is based on respondents who are engaged in a particular activity assign a reasonable minimum assessment of its importance to their life and are able to rate their satisfaction with their current experience. However given this base the opportunity index is limited in that it only represents individuals who currently have experience with an activity which may downplay activities that are more forward looking or futuristic. Therefore a company may wish to consider other inputs when planning new products services.

At operation if the respondent rated importance above the importance threshold e.g. above a 3 rating then the logic proceeds to operation where the respondent rates satisfaction for the survey question e.g. rates satisfaction on a 1 9 scale .

Next in operation the logic determines if the respondent rated satisfaction at a rating above a satisfaction threshold e.g. a satisfaction rating above a 7 rating . If the answer is yes then the logic proceeds to operation to rescale the satisfaction rating to a lower rating e.g. rescale a satisfaction rating of 8 or 9 to a rating of 7 . Next the logic proceeds to operation discussed below .

When a respondent rates satisfaction above the satisfaction threshold e.g. rating of 8 or 9 the respondent is reasonably satisfied and there is little opportunity to improve on that level of satisfaction. In fact a company might inadvertently cause dissatisfaction among users by changing a product feature that is already highly satisfying to users.

In operation if the respondent s satisfaction rating is not above the satisfaction threshold e.g. at or below a rating then the logic proceeds to operation . At operation an opportunity index for the survey question is computed using the importance and satisfaction ratings. In one embodiment the opportunity index is computed by the following importance rating 1 1.25 7 satisfaction rating 1.6667 where importance rating and satisfaction rating are on a scale from 1 9 where 1 is a low rating and 9 is a high rating.

In the above opportunity index equation in order to achieve the intuitive 0 to 100 opportunity index one is subtracted from the importance rating and then the importance rating is multiplied by 1.25 in order to have the 0 to 10 range . The satisfaction rating which may have been rescaled from an 8 or 9 to a 7 is subtracted from 7 and multiplied by 1.6667 again to have the 0 to 10 range . It will be appreciated that the opportunity index calculation is bound to individual level scores and not bound to a percentage of the total sample. This makes it possible to identify differences among individual respondents within the survey results.

Next in operation opportunity indexes may be aggregated in various ways. Opportunity indexes are calculated at an individual level for each survey question. In one embodiment the opportunity index score for a survey question may be aggregated across multiple opportunity indexes for multiple respondents and the mean computed. The mean opportunity index may be reported for the total sample as well as sub groups within the sample based on profiling variables such as age gender income job role company size current product used etc.

Next in operation the opportunity index results are outputted. It will be appreciated that opportunity index results from multiple survey questions may be collected and reported together. The opportunity index results may be reported in various ways such as per individual respondent as a mean per survey question as a mean per survey question within a sub group and the like. The opportunity index results may be output to a storage device or output to an output device of a computing device.

Turning to a table of opportunity index ranges in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown. Table shows the range of scores that may be achieved for each combination of importance and satisfaction ratings. For example if a respondent rates a survey question a 7 in importance and a 6 in satisfaction the associated opportunity index would be 12.5. In one embodiment an opportunity index is calculated for each survey question for each individual respondent then averaged across the entire sample for whom there is importance and satisfaction data for reporting purposes. While theoretically a score of 100 is possible it would be nearly impossible to achieve a 100 on an aggregate basis. Most aggregate scores for each survey question fall below a 30 in practice.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to an opportunity index for identifying users unmet needs with a product. A broad rating scale e.g. 1 9 and ability to calculate an opportunity index on an individual user level provides highly granular data for reporting and analysis. Embodiments of the invention may dynamically reduce survey length as a user takes a survey thus preventing unreasonable survey lengths that may result in poor data quality.

Although not required embodiments of the invention are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement embodiments of the invention may be in storage . For example computer readable instructions to implement OI application may be stored in storage and loaded in memory for execution by processing unit . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allow device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared Near Field Communication NFC and other wireless media.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

In the description and claims the term coupled and its derivatives may be used. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in contact physically electrically magnetically optically etc. . Coupled may also mean two or more elements are not in contact with each other but still cooperate or interact with each other for example communicatively coupled .

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments of the invention. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device . Those skilled in the art will also realize that all or a portion of the computer readable instructions may be carried out by a dedicated circuit such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP programmable logic array and the like.

Various operations of embodiments of the present invention are described herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment of the invention.

The above description of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples of the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize in light of the above detailed description. The terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification. Rather the following claims are to be construed in accordance with established doctrines of claim interpretation.

