---

title: Presentation of content items based on dynamic monitoring of real-time context
abstract: The present invention provides systems and methods for providing real-time context-based content items to a user client system. Methods include dynamically monitoring a user client system to determine a real-time context of the user client system based on one or more of identifying one or more content keywords of an application operating on the user client system and/or one or more system capabilities of the user client system. One or more content items can be presented and changed based on changes detected in the real-time context of the user client system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07707226&OS=07707226&RS=07707226
owner: AOL Inc.
number: 07707226
owner_city: Dulles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070129
---
The present invention is related to selecting and or presenting content items based on the real time context of a user client system. More particularly methods and systems are provided for selecting certain aspects of the real time context of a user client system on which to base selecting and or presenting of content items.

Currently advertisements are selected and delivered to a client system based on the static state condition of the client system. Advertisement providers do not take into account a user s context. Furthermore current advertising systems do not take into account any external factors outside of the existing page in which the advertisements are displayed. For example in an instant messaging system all of the participants in the instant messaging session are presented with the same advertisements. It would be advantageous to be able to present a user with content items that are personalized and tailored to the particular real time context of that user.

The subject matter claimed herein is not limited to embodiments that solve any disadvantages or that operate only in environments such as those described above. Rather this background is only provided to illustrate one exemplary technology area where some embodiments described herein may be practiced.

The present invention is directed to systems and method for providing real time context based content items to a user client system. One embodiment of the invention includes a method including dynamically monitoring a user client system to determine a real time context of the user client system. The real time context of the user client system can be evaluated based on one or more factors. In one embodiment the real time context is based on identifying one or more content keywords of an application operating on the user client system one or more past search keywords of the user client system one or more user demographic profile keywords of the user client system and or one or more system capabilities of the user client system. The method further includes identifying a first content item based on the real time context of the user client system sending the first content item to the user client system further performing dynamic monitoring of the real time context of the user client system identifying a second content item based on a change in the real time context of the user client system and sending the second content item to the user client system.

Another embodiment of the invention includes a method including dynamically monitoring a user client system to determine a real time context of the user client system including determining two or more system capabilities of the user client system identifying a first content item capable of being presented by the two or more system capabilities of the user client system presenting the first content item on the user client system using a first system capability of the user client system further performing dynamic monitoring of the real time context of the user client system to detect a change in the real time context of the user client system and presenting the first content item on the user client system using a second system capability of the user client system.

Yet another embodiment of the invention includes a method for providing real time context based content items to the instant messaging client including identifying an instant messaging session between a first instant messaging client and a second instant messaging client dynamically monitoring the instant messaging session to determine a real time context of the first instant messaging client including identifying one or more content keywords of the instant messaging session identifying a first content item based on the real time context of the first instant messaging client sending the first content item to the first instant messaging client further performing dynamic monitoring of the real time context of the first instant messaging client identifying a second content item based on a change in the real time context of the first instant messaging client and sending the second content item to the first instant messaging client.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential characteristics of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

These and other features of the present invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will become more fully apparent from the description or may be learned by the practice of the teachings herein. Features of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. Features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

In the following detailed description of various embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for methods and systems for dynamically monitoring the real time context of one or more user client systems and determining advertising to be presented on the user client system based on this real time context and changes in the real time context. As illustrated in an exemplary network system is depicted in which a server is communicatively coupled with one or more user client systems and . The server includes a context monitoring module for monitoring the real time context of each of the user client systems . In one embodiment the user client systems may be communicating with each other in a collaborative messaging environment such as instant messaging. In this scenario server may perform the role of an instant messaging server and each of the user client systems have an instant messaging client application which enables them to communicate with the server and hence each other.

The server monitors the real time context of a user client system . Upon determining a state of the real time context of a user client system the server obtains one or more content items from a content item source based on the current state of the real time context. If the server detects a change in the real time context of the user client system server can either select a different content item from content item source or server can change how the first content item is presented on user client system . It will be appreciated that server user client systems and or content item source may communicate via direct link or via a network such as the Internet.

While some embodiments of the present invention will be described using an advertisement as an example of a content item it will be appreciated that a content item is broadly construed to include but is not limited to informational content including but not limited to information from broad based websites e.g. Yahoo MSN AOL news websites e.g. CNN New York Times information from single topic websites e.g. blogs promotional material e.g. from Google Ingenio Overture ad.com and the like. Thus content items include any articles feeds advertisements sponsored links pay per call advertisements banner advertisements popup content music links audio clips news headlines video clips images photographs and the like in any format including text graphics audio visual rich media and the like. The content item can include links whether visible or not that when selected redirect a user to another content item such as a web page a sponsored link a video clip an audio stream clip a popup advertisement and the like.

User client systems can further include one or more applications operating thereon respectively. It will be appreciated that applications may be operated locally from user client systems or may be located on server and accessed remotely. Network communicating systems such as web applications instant messaging systems and email systems are well known in the art thus system will not be discussed in further detail.

Turning to one aspect of the present invention is directed to a method for providing real time context based content items to a user client system. The method may be practiced for example at server illustrated in . The server may include one or more computer readable media having computer executable instructions that when executed implement the method .

Method includes as dynamically monitoring a user client system to determine a real time context of the user client system. In one embodiment context monitoring module of server can perform this dynamic monitoring. The real time context of the user client system can be evaluated based on one or more factors. In one embodiment the real time context is based on identifying one or more content keywords of an application operating on the user client system. Identifying one or more content keywords can include but is not limited to crawling content presented by the application detecting metadata associated with the application identifying content of interest of the application based on user interaction with at least an aspect of the application identifying a lack of user interaction with at least an aspect of the application and the like. Identifying content of interest of the application based on user interaction with at least an aspect of the application can further include detecting such events including but not limited to hovering over an aspect of a display of the application clicking on a link in the content of the application identifying a conversion related to content of the application identifying content input by the user into the application and the like.

Real time context can also be based on identifying one or more past search keywords of the user client system including exposing one or more application programming interfaces to obtain one or more previous searches performed by the user.

Real time context can further be based on identifying one or more user demographic profile keywords of the user client system including but not limited to a geographic location of the user client system a time at which the dynamic monitoring of the user client system is occurring a date on which the dynamic monitoring of the user client system is occurring an age of a user a gender of a user and the like.

Further real time context can be based on determining one or more system capabilities of the user client system . In one embodiment this can include sending an operating system call to the user client system to receiving information about the system capabilities of the user client system. System capabilities include but are not limited to identifying one or more applications operating on the user client system such as an embedded HTML application an operating system of the user client system video capabilities of the user client system audio capabilities of the user client system available processing power of the user client system available memory of the user client system properties of one or more applications and the like.

At the server identifies a first content item based on the real time context of the user client system. This can include server accessing content item source to obtain the first content item. At the server sends the first content item to the user client system . The first content item is thus rendered on the user client system .

At the server further performs dynamic monitoring of the real time context of the user client system . This can include monitoring any one or more of the factors identified above that contribute to the real time context of the user client system .

At the server identifies a second content item based on a change in the real time context of the user client system. This can include server sending a second request to content item source for a second content item. Alternatively at when the server first requests the first content item the server may receive multiple content items such that at the server is able to select from among a group of available content items. At the server sends the second content item to the user client system .

Thus the present invention provides for dynamically monitoring the context of a user client system which context can be continually changing. For example the user may be operating a web application from user client system which initially displays a first advertisement. As the user continues to operate the web application the server monitors the user s interaction with the web application. As the user performs searches clicks on links inputs information etc. the context of the web application may be continually changing e.g. using Ajax code . However the present invention is able to analyze changes in the real time context which in one embodiment triggers a change in the content item being displayed on the web application in order to attempt to display a content item that interests a user. In other words the content items displayed on the web application change according to the content that the user displays the most interest in.

As the real time context of the user is being dynamically identified content items relevant to the current context of the user are dynamically presented to the user such as advertisements. The content item that are dynamically presented are preferably selected based on the factor that caused the change in real time context of the user client system so as to be more relevant to the user. Any and all of the above real time context factors can be used to contribute to a real time understanding of the current context of a user and initiate and account for dynamic changes of content items based on the same. Thus the present invention provides for performing real time analysis of the user context to determine which content items to present to the user which content items can be dynamically changing as the user context changes.

Turning to another aspect of the invention is described with regard to an exemplary method . The method may be practiced for example at server illustrated in . The server may include one or more computer readable media having computer executable instructions that when executed implement the method .

Method includes at dynamically monitoring a user client system to determine a real time context of the user client system. In one embodiment context monitoring module at server can perform this dynamic monitoring. Generally this can include identifying any of the factors described above for . In particular method includes determining two or more system capabilities of the user client system . At server identifies a first content item capable of being presented by the two or more system capabilities of the user client system . In one embodiment the first system capability is selected for presenting the first content item on the user client system due to the undesirability of the second system capability.

At server presents the first content item on the user client system using a first system capability of the user client system. At server further performs dynamic monitoring of the real time context of the user client system to detect a change in the real time context of the user client system. Upon detecting a change in the real time context of the user client system at server presents the first content item on the user client system using a second system capability of the user client system.

Thus one embodiment of the invention contemplates identifying two or more system capabilities and displaying content items based on the state of the two or more system capabilities. This broadly encompasses many scenarios but a few examples will be described. In one example two or more applications are running on a user client system. Server determines the capabilities of the applications for example whether the applications are web applications audio applications or video applications. Based on this determination a content item is selected that can be presented to the user via one or more of these applications. For example if one of the applications is an audio application the server would select a content item that can be played audibly preferably automatically playing the audio content item. However the server may prefer to display the content item via the second application if for example content is currently being played on the audio application so as not to cause audio confusion for the user. In this situation the audio application would be less preferred as a vehicle for presenting the first content item. The presentation of the first content item can subsequently change based on the state of the two applications. For example if the first content item is played via the audio application but the user changes to play a song on the audio application the server can identify the change of the user of the audio application and also the current audio being played as part of the real time context of the user client system. Server may select a second content item for example a banner advertisement to display on a second application relating to the artist that is being played on the audio application.

Another example includes selecting a content item that can be presented in multiple configurations i.e. banner sponsored link audio and video and selecting which of the configurations to use to present to the user based on the state of the user s computer. For example if the user has multiple instant messaging windows and an audio application operating information about these multiple applications is sent to server to select potential content items and also to decide how best to present the content item to the user. For example if audio is being used server may send back a banner add to catch user s attention. Alternatively if audio is not being used server may cause the content item to automatically play an audio the audio application running on the user client system. In this case the server selects only one content item but the same content item is presentable in various ways.

One embodiment of the invention provides real time context based content items while the user is participating in an instant messaging environment. depicts this method in further detail. The content of the instant messaging session is dynamically monitored to determine what the user is most interested in and content items are dynamically displayed accordingly. As the user changes topics in the instant messaging session the presentation of the content items takes into account the change in topic. Further the presentation of content items can also take into account a user s past searches or demographics to present additional options for displaying content items to the user. The method may be practiced for example at server illustrated in . The server may include one or more computer readable media having computer executable instructions that when executed implement the method .

At server identifies an instant messaging session between a first instant messaging user client system and a second instant messaging user client system . As discussed above server can be an instant messaging server that initiates and maintains an instant messaging session between user client system and user client system .

At server dynamically monitors the instant messaging session to determine a real time context of the first instant messaging user client system . For example suppose users Joe and Jane are using instant messaging client applications and respectively to conduct an instant messaging conversation. At time X server extracts the following information for Joe which can be obtained for example from databases or using API calls 

In addition to the above information the instant messaging client installed on Joe s user client system can provide the following information using for example operating system calls 

In addition to the above information the instant messaging client application installed on Jane s user client system can provide the following information 

In addition monitoring the real time context of the instant messaging session can include identifying one or more content keywords of the instant messaging session. For example either the instant messaging server or either instant messaging client application or on user client system or can provide the content of the instant messaging session. For example assume that the following conversation has taken place at time X 

While the above conversation is taking place context monitoring module at server analyzes the instant messaging conversation to obtain one or more content keywords such as weekend and movie. Context monitoring module can continue to monitor portions of instant messaging sessions that occur between particular time intervals. At server identifies a first content item for each of the real time contexts of the first instant messaging user client system and second instant messaging user client system . Note that the content item can be different for each user client system .

At server sends the first content item to the first instant messaging user client system . For example for time X server may determine the following for Joe s user client system 

It will be appreciated that as a result of the data collected at time X shortly thereafter different content items can be displayed to different participants of an instant messaging session with the content items for a particular participant being tailored to the context of that particular participant. For example illustrates an exemplary instant messaging interface that Joe might view at time X. Conversely illustrates an exemplary instant messaging interface that Jane might view at the same time X. As noted the sponsored links provided for each of Joe and Jane are different and based on the context for that particular individual participating in the instant messaging session rather than the same sponsored links for both participants.

At server further performs dynamic monitoring of the real time context of the first instant messaging user client system . At server identifies a second content item based on a change in the real time context of the first instant messaging client. At server sends the second content item to the first instant messaging user client system .

Thus at time X 10 Joe and Jane may have continued their instant messaging conversation to include discussion about specific movie options. As context monitoring module of server detects specific movies mentioned the context monitoring module can take these terms into account to identify content items related to these specific movies. Thus at time X 10 the following may occur on user client systems 

As a final example supposed at time X 20 server takes into account one of Jane s past search terms for baby sitter sunnyvale . Jane s instant messaging user client system can change yet again to present content items to Jane 

Thus server aggregates information about each user their system capabilities the conversation taking place and can target and rotate the content items to the users on an individualized basis. Therefore the content items that Joe and Jane see and or hear are different and show separately in their individual instant messaging interface.

In summary the present invention provides that content items are presented keeping in mind the context in which they are presented which context includes user machine and content components . Content items are selected based on real time evaluation of the user s current context. Content items are obtained from multiple content sources and the content item that is most relevant at the given time X X 10 X 20 etc. is selected. In some embodiments content items can be aggregated from multiple content sources. Content items can be capable of being presented in different formats based on machine capabilities and context of the user. In a group situation content items are selected and the manner in which they are presented are tailored for each participant in a conversation.

Embodiments may also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Computer executable instructions include for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to content module features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

