---

title: Array plate apparatus having tunable isolation characteristics
abstract: An apparatus having an array plate and an isolation section joined to the perimetrical edge of the plate. The isolation section has a plurality of isolation layers and a plurality of intermediate layers alternately arranged wherein an intermediate layer is positioned between consecutive isolation layers. An innermost isolation layer is joined to the perimetrical edge of the array plate and an outermost isolation layer is adapted to be joined to a hull structure of an underwater vehicle. Each isolation layer is made from energy absorbing material and each intermediate layer is made from generally rigid material. The isolation section substantially reduces vehicle self-noise from traveling to the array plate. Interchangeable depth stop members having various geometries are used to adjust the stiffness of the isolation section so as to maximize the isolation characteristics of the isolation section at particular water depths at which the underwater vehicle operates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07623409&OS=07623409&RS=07623409
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07623409
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070626
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

Presently underwater or undersea vehicles employ sonar arrays to find localize avoid and classify underwater objects. Such vehicles typically use forward looking sonar arrays that have acoustic transducers or other sensing elements attached to an array plate or baffle. The performance of these sonar arrays is often degraded by the self noise generated by the underwater vehicle itself.

Typically this self noise is in the form of vibrations that are produced by the propulsion system of the underwater vehicle. The self noise travels through the structure of the underwater vehicle and through the array plate to which are attached the acoustic transducers. As a result the vehicle self noise causes an increase in the noise floor and adversely affects the performance of the acoustic transducers.

In many operations passive sonar arrays are used instead of active sonar systems. Passive sonar arrays use sensing elements such as piezoelectric elements to sense pressure fluctuations in the water which represent sound. However the amplitude and power levels of acoustic signals detected by passive sonar arrays are very low thus the vehicle self noise can significantly degrade the performance of the passive sonar array in the detection of such low level acoustic signals. Active sonar array systems are also affected by vehicle self noise.

In order to achieve improvement in the performance of the sonar array isolation techniques have been used isolate the sonar array from the vehicle self noise. A review of the prior art reveals several references that disclose a variety of array plate structures and noise isolation configurations for use with acoustic transducers.

Cook et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 004 266 discloses a transducer array with low cross coupling. Each transducer is set in the recess of a steel baffle plate.

Hodges et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 192 246 discloses a torpedo nose section having an acoustic window and nose section interfacing with the main body of a torpedo at a position aft of acoustic transducers positioned in the nose section.

McQuitty et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 949 317 discloses a compliant baffle for attachment to a rigid transducer mounting plate. The baffle is coupled to one side of the plate and the transducers are coupled to the opposite side of the plate.

Madden et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 426 619 discloses a mounting arrangement for a sonar array. A three layer plate is coupled to a steel plate by means of compliant material tubes. Transducers are mounted on one plate layer and Madden et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 428 582 discloses a decoupling ring that surrounds a sonar array and serves as the interface with the nose of an underwater vehicle.

Dubois U.S. Pat. No. 5 905 693 discloses a vibration isolation mount for an acoustic device. The mount is constructed in layers with a rigid mount supporting the acoustic device a compliant collar coupled to the rigid mount and a rigid mount positioned between the other end of collar and the structure to which the mount is coupled.

Dubois U.S. Pat. No. 5 992 077 discloses a multi layered nose cone assembly for surrounding and shielding a sonar array mounted in the nose portion of an underwater vehicle.

Based on the prior art references a need still exists for an improved isolation device that significantly reduces the magnitude of vehicle self noise that reaches the array plate and the acoustic transducers.

It is therefore a primary object and general purpose of the present invention to provide an apparatus for use on an underwater vehicle in which the apparatus significantly reduces the amount of vehicle self noise that travels to an array plate of the undersea vehicle.

It is a further object of the present invention to significantly reduce the noise floor at which acoustic transducers operate.

To attain the objects of the present invention an apparatus is provided which includes an array plate having a perimetrical edge and an isolation section joined to the perimetrical edge. The array plate is configured to have acoustic transducers such as hydrophones attached thereto.

The isolation section breaks the transmission path of vehicle self noise and isolates the acoustic transducers from such vehicle self noise. The isolation section comprises a plurality of isolation layers and a plurality of intermediate layers arranged in an alternating configuration wherein an intermediate layer is positioned between consecutive isolation layers. The isolation layers comprise an innermost isolation layer that is joined to the perimetrical edge of the array plate and an outermost isolation layer for joining to a hull structure of an underwater vehicle.

Each isolation layer is fabricated from a flexible energy absorbing material of a type known to those skilled in the art. In one embodiment the flexible energy absorbing material is elastomeric material. In another embodiment the array plate and isolation section are annular in shape so as to allow use of the apparatus in underwater vehicles having an annular or circular cross sectional shape. Interchangeable depth stop members having various geometries are used to adjust the stiffness of the isolation section so as to provide greater isolation at shallow depths while still providing deep depth operational capability.

Using depth stop members of various geometries allows relatively soft energy absorbing materials to be used to form the isolation layers. Such relatively soft isolation layers facilitate significant isolation of the array plate from vibrations and other vehicle self noise at shallow depths. Thus the stiffness of the array plate is tunable or adjustable thereby allowing variation of the resonance and corresponding frequency at which maximum isolation occurs.

The apparatus of the present invention exhibits significant improvement in the isolation of acoustic transducers from relatively large deflections and also improves the noise floor at which the acoustic transducers operate. This results in a significant improvement in the quality of detected sonar signals.

Referring now to the drawings in detail wherein like numerals indicate the elements throughout the several views depict an underwater vehicle that employs a prior art array plate. The underwater vehicle generally comprises a structural shell a nose section and a propulsion system shown in phantom . The structural shell extends to the nose section . In this particular example the underwater vehicle is configured as a torpedo. The underwater vehicle uses a prior art array plate shown in phantom in which is adjacent to the nose section .

Acoustic transducers are attached to the array plate . The acoustic transducers are typically hydrophones or other acoustic energy sensing elements known in the art. The propulsion system is the main source of the underwater vehicle self noise which includes a substantial amount of energy due to vibrations. Other components and sub systems on the underwater vehicle such as the on board electronics can also contribute to the generation of vehicle self noise. Vehicle self noise emanating from all sources is indicated by arrows . The structural shell and the inner hull structure of the underwater vehicle act as a conduit or path that allows the vehicle self noise to travel the array plate and the acoustic transducers . The acoustic transducers detect vehicle the self noise and convert the detected noise into voltage signals. These voltage signals increase the noise floor and degrade the performance of the acoustic transducers .

Referring now to there is shown an apparatus in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The apparatus is configured for use with an underwater vehicle. The apparatus generally comprises an array plate which has a front side a rear side see and a perimetrical edge . Acoustic transducers are joined to the front side using techniques and configurations known to those skilled in the art. In a preferred embodiment the array plate is fabricated from corrosion resistant metals e.g. carbon steel aluminum stainless steel titanium etc.

The apparatus further comprises an isolation section that is joined to the perimetrical edge of the array plate . The isolation section has a front side that borders the front side of the array plate and a rear side that borders the rear side of the array plate see . The isolation section comprises a plurality of isolation layers A B and C and a plurality of intermediate layers A and B. The innermost isolation layer A is joined to the perimetrical edge of the array plate . Preferably the intermediate layers A and B are substantially rigid so as to provide structural integrity to the isolation section and to allow for the use of multiple isolation layers.

As shown in the isolation layers A B and C and intermediate layers A and B are positioned about the array plate in an alternating arrangement wherein the intermediate layer A is positioned between the consecutively positioned isolation layers A and B and the intermediate layer B is positioned between the consecutively positioned isolation layers B and C.

Each isolation layer A B and C is fabricated from elastomeric flexible material that has significant absorption properties and significant strength to withstand high pressure at deep ocean or water depths. The aforesaid elastomeric flexible material also has properties that facilitate potting the elastomeric flexible material in place and adhering substrates thereto. In one embodiment the aforesaid elastomeric flexible material is polyurethane. The intermediate layers A and B are preferably fabricated from the same material used to fabricate the array plate e.g. aluminum carbon steel titanium and stainless steel .

The innermost isolation layer A is adhered to the perimetrical edge of the array plate using adhesives known in the art. Similarly the intermediate layer A is adhered to the isolation layers A and B and the intermediate layer B is adhered to the isolation layers B and C. The outermost isolation layer C is adhered to inner hull structure .

As shown in the array plate apparatus is used in the underwater vehicle . The underwater vehicle has a structural shell an inner hull structure and a nose section . The outermost isolation layer C is joined to the inner hull structure . The isolation section effectively breaks the energy transmission path from the propulsion system not shown of the underwater vehicle to the array plate .

In one embodiment the array plate the isolation layers A B and C and the intermediate layers A and B are generally annular in shape so as to be used in underwater vehicles having annular structural shells. However it is to be understood that the array plate the isolation layers A B and C and the intermediate layers A and B can have other shapes as well.

As the underwater vehicle travels to relatively deeper depths the depth pressure applied to the nose section increases. Such depth pressure is also applied to the apparatus . In certain situations it may be desired to operate the underwater vehicle at relatively shallow depths wherein the depth pressure applied to the nose section is relatively less. Thus the apparatus is used in conjunction with interchangeable depth stop members that allow for variation or tuning of the resonance and frequency at which maximum isolation will occur.

As shown in one such depth stop member is depth stop member . In one embodiment the depth stop member has a shape that matches the shape of the isolation section . Thus if the isolation section has an annular shape then the depth stop member also has an annular shape. The depth stop member is joined to the inner hull structure in such a position that the depth stop member is proximate to the rear side of the isolation section . The depth stop member is configured to have a predetermined geometry that allows selected ones of the isolation layers A B and C to flex in order to adjust the stiffness of the isolation section .

In accordance with the present invention adjusting the stiffness of the isolation section effects tuning of the particular resonance and frequency at which maximum isolation occurs. Thus the present invention provides maximum isolation shallow depths. The degree of desired stiffness of the isolation section depends upon the depth at which the underwater vehicle operates. A lower degree of stiffness allows for desired isolation at shallow depths whereas a high degree of stiffness achieves the desired isolation at deep depths.

As shown in the depth stop member has the portion and the portion where the portion is smaller in size than the portion however the portion has a greater thickness than the portion . The difference in the thickness between the portions and provides gap between the rear side of the isolation section and the depth stop member . The portion of the depth stop member has a predetermined size that does not extend over or abut any portion of the isolation section . However the size of gap is such that it extends over the isolation layers A B and C and thus the isolation layers A B and C are allowed to flex. This reduces the stiffness of the array plate thereby providing maximum isolation at relatively shallow ocean depths. Thus the particular geometry of the depth stop member provides maximum isolation at a predetermined resonance and frequency which correlates to a particular ocean or water depth. If there is an increase in the depth at which the underwater vehicle operates the depth stop member can be replaced by another depth stop member having a different geometry which will increase the overall stiffness of the array plate See .

Referring now to the depth stop member is replaced by depth stop member . The depth stop member comprises a portion and a portion . The portion has a thickness that is greater than the thickness of the portion which results in a gap . However in comparing the portion of the depth stop member to portion of the depth stop member see it can be seen that the portion is greater in size than the portion . As a result the portion abuts the outermost isolation layer C and thus reduces the ability of isolation layer C to flex. The gap extends over the isolation layers A and B thereby allowing these isolation layers to flex. Thus the depth stop member changes the overall stiffness of the array plate which causes a change in the resonance and frequency at which maximum isolation occurs.

Similarly the depth stop member can be replaced by a depth stop member shown in . The depth stop member has a different geometry than that of the depth stop member . The particular geometry of the depth stop member provides a gap which is smaller in size than that of the gap see and gap see . The depth stop member abuts the isolation layers B C and intermediate layer B but does not abut the innermost isolation layer A. The gap extends over innermost the isolation layer A. The ability of the isolation layers B and C to flex is significantly reduced but the isolation layer A is allowed to flex. This configuration results in further variation in the overall stiffness of the array plate thereby producing a different resonance and corresponding frequency at which the maximum the isolation occurs. It is to be understood that the depth stop member can be replaced by a different depth stop member that abuts all three isolation layers A B and C to provide a higher degree of stiffness of the array plate .

Thus the effective stiffness of the array plate can be adjusted to provide a different resonance and corresponding frequency at which the maximum isolation occurs. This feature allows a relatively high degree of isolation from vehicle self noise at shallow moderate or deep depths. Furthermore the use of the depth stop members allows the isolation layers A B and C to be formed from very soft materials which provide a relatively high degree of isolation of the acoustic transducers at shallow depths while still providing a high degree of isolation at relatively deeper depths.

The type of material used to fabricate the isolation layers A B and C also can be altered to provide a particular resonance and frequency at which isolation will occur. Thus a combination of changes in the geometry of the depth stop members and and the materials used to fabricate the isolation layers A B and C can achieve a desired resonance and frequency at which maximum isolation occurs. Thus the isolation characteristics of the isolation section can be tuned to a desired resonance and frequency to achieve maximum isolation.

Although the foregoing description and the drawings disclose the use of the three isolation layers A B and C and the two intermediate layers A and B it is to be understood that different quantities of isolation layers and intermediate layers can be used. For example the number of isolation layers and intermediate layers can be increased to allow for more tunable design points.

Thus the invention provides an apparatus that isolates the array plate from vehicle self noise. The mechanical depth stop members allow for greater isolation at shallow depths while preserving deep depth operational capability. The present invention substantially improves the performance of acoustic transducers by reducing the noise floor associated with the operation of the acoustic transducers. The ability to adjust or tune the isolation section provides a degree of flexibility in the operational characteristics of the invention.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is neither intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

