---

title: Method and system for discovering and acting on tagged information in software artifacts
abstract: According to exemplary embodiments, a method and system are provided for discovering and acting on action tags within an artifact. Upon a determination that an artifact is attached to a document in a host application, an action tag processor is invoked. The action tag processor analyzes the artifact to discover action tags and properties associated with the action tags present in the artifact. Host application APIs are invoked to perform actions on the tags. The host applications processes the action tags according to a context of an application running on the host application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08086964&OS=08086964&RS=08086964
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08086964
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070629
---
The present invention relates generally to artifact processing and more particularly to processing of action tags within software artifacts.

Interactive software tools such as documents editors and email clients allow a user to attach external objects files into a document being edited. These objects are typically the output from other software applications.

For example a file containing an eXtensible Markup Language XML Form may be embedded into a Lotus Notes mail message. For the purpose of this discussion the external file or attachment may be called an artifact and the application into which it is being attached may be called the host application . In the example above the XML form is the artifact while the Lotus Notes client is the host application.

In many cases the artifact contains information that is relevant to the host application. For example an XML form being attached to a notes message may contain information such as subject matter person names etc. Such information may be meaningful to the message being created and may help the messaging system in formulating the message. In other words the content of the artifact might be useful to the host application.

Currently artifacts are typically treated as binary streams by the host application. The host application does not attempt to decipher the content of the artifact but treats it like a black box relying on viewers and third party applications to process and render the artifact when required. There is no method currently available for the host application to leverage the information contained in artifacts.

According to exemplary embodiments a method and system are provided for discovering and acting on action tags within an artifact such as an XML document. Upon a determination that an artifact is attached to a document in a host application an action tag processor is invoked. The action tag processor analyzes the artifact to discover action tags and properties associated with the action tags present in the artifact. Host application APIs are invoked to perform actions on the tags. The host application processes the action tags according to a context of an application running on the host application.

According to an exemplary embodiment artifact content may be leveraged and relevant information in the artifact may be acted upon to significantly enhance the usability of software applications.

According to an exemplary embodiment a method and a system are provided that describe action tags in an artifact such as an XML form and act upon such tags in the context of the host application. The context is determined by the host application. For example the context of a mail client application includes the mail message subject to and cc lists. The context of a directory application includes the member name attributes and so on. According to exemplary embodiments the host application is able to leverage the information contained in the artifact and act on that information within its context.

The action tags contained in the artifact are special tags that point to information within the artifact. The action tags also include a set of actions that can be taken on that information. The action tag processor has the capability to look for action tags in a given markup language form e.g. an XML form and prepare a list of such tags and associated values. The action tag processor invokes applicable host application programming interfaces APIs to act upon relevant action tags.

According to an exemplary embodiment when an XML form is attached to a document in the host application the host application invokes the action tag processor. The action tag processor acts upon the XML form to discover a list of action tags and their properties present in the form. The action tag processor then invokes host application APIs to perform actions on the tags. This allows the host application to act upon relevant information in embedded files.

As an illustrative example consider an Activity Explorer host application such as that available in IBM Workplace Release 2.6 . Activity Explorer is an interactive software application that allows users to create activity threads with artifacts such as documents images instant messages emails. According to an exemplary embodiment related artifacts may be tracked in Activity Explorer in the context of a single activity. Applying the action tag concept to Activity Explorer allows the Activity Explorer application to act upon meaningful information available in the artifact.

As an example consider a user who records minutes of a meeting MOM in an XML form using e.g. a preexisting template with defined action tags. The action tags in the form identity names of participants in the meeting being recorded could there also be action items identifying other individuals that might not be participants in the meeting and MOM action items including for example the individuals to whom these action items are assigned and the complete by dates. This information may potentially be put into an electronic mail message. A user creates an activity object with the XML form artifact . Activity Explorer invokes the action tag processor to process the input XML form. The action tag processor discovers action tags containing member names and MOM action items from the XML form. The action tag processor invokes Activity Explorer APIs to add activity members using the member names identified from the action tags. The processor invokes an Activity Explorer API to send email messages using the MOM action items identified from the action tags.

While exemplary embodiments have been described above it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. For example although the description above is directed to an XML form artifact used in an Activity Explorer environment it should be appreciated that the invention is applicable to any type of software artifact including tags that are discoverable and that may be acted upon. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not to be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed as the best mode contemplated for carrying out this invention but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

