---

title: Advanced metal-air battery having a ceramic membrane electrolyte
abstract: A metal-air battery is disclosed in one embodiment of the invention as including a cathode to reduce oxygen molecules and an alkali-metal-containing anode to oxidize the alkali metal (e.g., Li, Na, and K) contained therein to produce alkali-metal ions. An aqueous catholyte is placed in ionic communication with the cathode to store reaction products generated by reacting the alkali-metal ions with the oxygen containing anions. These reaction products are stored as solutes dissolved in the aqueous catholyte. An ion-selective membrane is interposed between the alkali-metal containing anode and the aqueous catholyte. The ion-selective membrane is designed to be conductive to the alkali-metal ions while being impermeable to the aqueous catholyte.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08012633&OS=08012633&RS=08012633
owner: Ceramatec, Inc.
number: 08012633
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071012
---
This application claims the benefit of to U.S. Provisional Patent No. 60 829 499 filed on Oct. 13 2006 and entitled ADVANCED LITHIUM BATTERIES BASED ON CERAMIC MEMBRANE ELECTROLYTE.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. W91 QX 06 C 0092 awarded by the U.S. Army. This invention was also made with government support under Contract No. W9QX 06 C 0058 awarded by the U.S. Army. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to batteries and more particularly to apparatus and methods for improving the performance of metal air batteries.

Our society has come to rely on batteries to power a myriad of devices including computers cell phones portable music players lighting devices as well as many other electronic components. Nevertheless there is an ongoing need for further advances in battery technology. For example there is currently a tremendous push to develop economical batteries that can be used by automobiles and other vehicles to reduce reliance on fossil fuels and reduce the output of carbon emissions. Furthermore the information age increasingly demands portable energy sources that provide lighter weight higher energy longer discharge times and smaller customized designs. To achieve these advances technologists continue to work to develop batteries with higher and higher specific energies and energy densities while still providing acceptable safety power densities cost and other needed characteristics.

Metal air batteries have many applications and advantages that give them a potential edge over many other types of batteries. Theoretically for example a lithium air battery has a higher energy density than virtually all other types of practical battery technologies including lithium ion batteries. If lithium air batteries can be improved significantly they may provide dramatically improved specific energy energy density and cost compared to many primary and secondary battery technologies including lithium ion secondary batteries. An improved lithium air battery would be highly beneficial in military consumer and many other battery applications.

Advantages of lithium air batteries include their lower material and manufacturing costs compared to their lithium ion counterparts. Lithium air batteries may also be lighter weight store more energy have longer discharge times and have a reduced size compared to conventional lithium ion batteries. Because of these characteristics lithium air batteries and other metal air batteries may have a unique opportunity in many battery markets.

Conventional lithium air batteries typically include a porous membrane i.e. a lithium ion conductive solid polymer electrolyte membrane interposed between a lithium metal foil anode and a thin carbon composite cathode. The porous membrane permits a non aqueous electrolyte e.g. ethylene carbonate propylene carbonate etc. to pass through the membrane while preventing the flow of electrons through the membrane. Oxygen the electro active cathode material in the battery is reduced on the carbon composite cathode during discharge of the battery. Upon discharge lithium ions and peroxide ions in the battery combine together to generate one or more reaction products lithium hydroxide lithium peroxide etc. at or near the cathode of the battery.

Nevertheless conventional lithium air batteries like many other battery technologies are hindered by various limitations. The reaction products i.e. lithium hydroxide lithium peroxide etc. tend to clog up the pores of the cathode and limit the movement of reactants significantly limiting the life of the battery.

Unlike the non aqueous air cathode that is not capable of attaining high current density an air cathode in communication with an aqueous catholyte is capable of very high current density. For example Gordon et al. in U.S. Pat. No. 7 259 126 disclosed an excellent oxygen cathode which when exposed to 50 NaOH and oxygen partial pressure of 0.85 atmospheres was able to attain 500 mA cmwith only 350 mV polarization. Likewise the manufacturer Electric Fuel shows on their website polarization data for their air cathode in 8.5M KOH and air where the air cathode had less than 600 mV polarization at 300 mA cm.

In view of the foregoing what is needed is an improved metal air battery that is capable of overcoming one or more of the previously mentioned limitations. Specifically a membrane is needed that will enable the utilization of an aqueous air cathode that will enable the utilization of a metal air battery that will reduce or prevent the cathode from becoming clogged with various reaction products.

The present invention has been developed in response to the present state of the art and in particular in response to the problems and needs in the art that have not yet been fully solved by currently available metal air batteries.

Consistent with the foregoing and in accordance with the invention as embodied and broadly described herein a metal air battery is disclosed in one embodiment of the invention as including a cathode to reduce oxygen molecules and an anode to oxidize an alkali metal e.g. Li Na or K contained therein to produce alkali metal ions. An aqueous catholyte is placed in electrical communication with the cathode. An ion selective membrane is interposed between the alkali metal containing anode and the aqueous catholyte. The ion selective membrane is designed to be conductive to the alkali metal ions while being impermeable to the aqueous catholyte.

In selected embodiments the battery further includes an anolyte interposed between the alkali metal containing anode and the ion selective membrane to conduct the alkali metal ions from the anode to the ion selective membrane. In certain embodiments the aqueous catholyte is a separator material soaked in an aqueous catholyte solution. The aqueous catholyte may be used to store reaction products such as alkali metal hydroxides or oxides and their respective hydrates produced at or near the cathode or in the catholyte.

In certain embodiments the ion selective membrane may include a monolith of dense layer a dense layer sandwiched between porous layers. The dense layer may be fabricated from an ionically conductive material such as LiSICON NaSICON or other suitable ceramic appropriate to the anode material that is also impermeable to the aqueous catholyte. The porous layers in selected embodiments may provide structural integrity and rigidity to the dense layer. In certain embodiments these porous layers may be infiltrated with the anolyte and catholyte respectively in order to provide ionic conductivity between the dense layer and the anolyte and catholyte respectively.

In selected embodiments the cathode may be a multi layer structure. For example in certain embodiments the cathode may include a gas diffusion layer that is hydrophobic but is permeable to oxygen. This may allow oxygen to enter the battery while preventing the aqueous catholyte from leaking out of the battery. A reaction layer may be placed adjacent to the gas diffusion layer to reduce the oxygen molecules passing through the gas diffusion layer. In selected embodiments the reaction layer may contain or be infiltrated with a catalyst to aid in reducing the oxygen. In certain embodiments this catalyst may include a perovskite type compound. In other embodiments this catalyst may include a manganese cobalt and oxides thereof. In other embodiments the reaction layer may also include an oxygen evolution catalyst to make the battery rechargeable.

In another aspect of the invention a method in accordance with the invention includes generating alkali metal ions at an anode and transporting the alkali metal ions through an ion selective membrane that is impermeable to water. The method may further include transporting the alkali metal ions through an aqueous catholyte solution. These alkali metal ions may be reacted with oxygen or hydroxyl ions generated at a cathode to produce a reaction product such as an alkali metal hydroxide or oxide. These reaction products may then be stored as solutes dissolved in the aqueous catholyte solution and later precipitated over the course of discharge in the catholyte contained between separator and cathode.

In yet another aspect of the invention a metal air battery in accordance with the invention includes a cathode to reduce oxygen molecules to produce peroxide or hydroxyl ions and an alkali metal containing anode to oxidize the alkali metal contained therein to produce alkali metal ions. A catholyte solution is placed in electrical communication with the cathode to conduct the alkali metal ions. An ion selective membrane is interposed between the alkali metal containing anode and the catholyte solution. This ion selective membrane is conductive to the alkali metal ions while being impermeable to the catholyte solution. The catholyte solution is designed to store in the form of a dissolved solute reaction products formed by reacting the peroxide or hydroxyl ions and the alkali metal ions.

The present invention provides an improved metal air battery that overcomes various limitations of conventional metal air batteries. The features and advantages of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the Figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the invention as represented in the Figures is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of certain examples of presently contemplated embodiments in accordance with the invention. The presently described embodiments will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout.

Referring to in general a metal air battery in accordance with the invention that overcomes various problems of the prior art may include an anode a cathode an electrolyte separator membrane and an aqueous catholyte layer interposed between the electrolyte membrane and the cathode . Optionally the battery may also include a non aqueous organic anolyte layer interposed between the anode and the electrolyte membrane . In other embodiments the anolyte layer may be omitted by placing the anode in direct contact with the electrolyte membrane . Current collectors such as metal screens or meshes may be placed in contact with or be embedded within the anode and cathode respectively to conduct electrical current to and from the anode and cathode .

The anode may contain an alkali metal or alloys or compounds thereof such as lithium sodium potassium or the like where it may be oxidized to produce alkali metal ions upon discharge of the battery . These alkali metal ions may travel through the electrolyte separator membrane and the aqueous catholyte layer until they reach the cathode . At or near the cathode or in the catholyte the alkali metal ions may combine with peroxide or hydroxyl ions generated at the cathode where they may combine to form one or more reaction products such as alkali metal oxides or hydroxides. To prevent these reaction products from precipitating building up and clogging the pores of the reaction layer the aqueous catholyte may be used to store the reaction products as solutes dissolved in the aqueous catholyte . This is one significant advantage of using an aqueous catholyte in combination with the impermeable electrolyte membrane . By contrast conventional metal air batteries typically utilize non aqueous organic electrolytes in which the reaction products are insoluble. Although the much higher solubility of these reaction products in aqueous electrolyte is beneficial over the prior art there is nothing to prevent allowing the discharge of the anode to take place to the point where hydrates and precipitates of alkali metal oxides and hydroxides form in the catholyte. This may be desirable to achieve higher specific energy and energy density.

In certain embodiments the cathode may include a gas diffusion layer and a reaction layer . The gas diffusion layer may be gas permeable but hydrophobic. Thus the gas diffusion layer may allow oxygen gas to diffuse through the layer in a direction while preventing the aqueous catholyte from diffusing through the layer in the opposite direction. The reaction layer on the other hand may be permeable to the aqueous catholyte i.e. the layer is hydrophilic as well as oxygen passing through the gas diffusion layer . In selected embodiments the reaction layer may contain or be infiltrated with a catalyst material such as a perovskite compound or other material known by those skilled in the art to serve such purpose such as manganese cobalt and oxides thereof to aid in reducing the oxygen and or forming hydroxyl ions. In other embodiments the reaction layer may also include an oxygen evolution catalyst to make the battery rechargeable.

Because the alkali metal of the anode may react violently with water and therefore be destroyed by water the electrolyte membrane may be a structure that is conductive to the alkali metal ions but impermeable to the water of the catholyte layer . In selected embodiments the electrolyte membrane may also be a multi layer structure. For example in certain embodiments the electrolyte membrane may include a thin e.g. 20 to 300 m dense inner layer sandwiched between porous lower density outer layers . In certain embodiments the dense layer may form the actual membrane that is ionically conductive but water impermeable. The porous layers on the other hand may provide structural strength and rigidity to the dense layer to keep it from breaking or cracking. In certain embodiments the porous layers may be infiltrated with the aqueous catholyte and non aqueous anolyte respectively to provide ionic conductivity between the dense layer and the catholyte and anolyte respectively.

As mentioned an alkali metal such as lithium or sodium metal may be used as the anode with a metal current collector such as a copper mesh or screen connected to or embedded within the anode . In certain embodiments the alkali metal anode may be placed in direct contact with the solid electrolyte membrane . However this may require verifying that the electrolyte membrane is stable when in contact with the alkali metal anode .

Alternatively an ionically conductive liquid electrolyte i.e. anolyte which is conductive to the alkali metal at room temperature may be placed between the alkali metal anode and the solid electrolyte membrane . Such electrolytes may be made for example by mixing Lewis acid AlClwith CHSOCl LiCl or with ClP NPOCl LiCl for a lithium air battery or with CHSOCl NaCl or with ClP NPOCl NaCl for a sodium air battery. These electrolytes typically have room temperature conductivities of approximately 1.0 to 2.5 Siemens cm and exhibit electrochemical stability windows of 4.5 to 5.0 volts vs. Li Li or Na Na respectively. In the case of Li metal greater than 60 cycles above 80 percent expected capacity has been demonstrated with a Li LiMnObattery using this electrolyte.

In other embodiments the anolyte may include organic liquids such as propylene carbonate dioxolane ethylene carbonate tetraethyleneglycol dimethylether Tetraglyme or room temperature ionic liquid 1 hexyl 3 methylimidazolium bis perfluoroethylsulfonyl imide CmimBeti or mixtures thereof. The anolyte may also include various lithium or sodium salt s and a solvent such as dimethyl carbonate DMC diethylcarbonate DEC dipropylcarbonate DPC ethylmethylcarbonate EMC ethylene carbonate EC propylene carbonate PC butylene carbonate lactones esters glymes sulfoxides sulfolanes lithium perchlorate polyethylene oxide PEO or polyacrylnitrile PAN with lithium trifluoromethylsulfonate lithium hexafluorophosphate or mixtures thereof.

As mentioned the cathode may include a gas diffusion layer and a reaction layer . One such cathode for example is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 259 126 entitled Gas Diffusion Electrode and Catalyst for Electrochemical Oxygen Reduction and Method of Dispersing the Catalyst which is herein incorporated by reference. In certain embodiments the reaction layer may include Teflon an oxygen reduction perovskite electrocatalyst and hydrophilic carbon. In certain embodiments the electrocatalyst of the reaction layer may include a NdCaMnFeOor LaCaCoOperovskite. These electrocatalysts enable facile one step reduction of oxygen to hydroxyl ions and exhibit negligible overpotential even at high cathodic current densities. The gas diffusion layer on the other hand may contain a higher amount of Teflon and hydrophobic carbon. In certain embodiments the gas diffusion layer may be produced by hot pressing Teflon and hydrophobic carbon powders onto a metal screen such as a nickel screen.

In certain embodiments the catholyte layer may include a separator material such as a cellulose separator material soaked in an aqueous electrolyte that is conductive to the alkali metal ions produced at the anode . For example the catholyte layer of a sodium air battery may include a cellulose separator material soaked in aqueous NaOH. Similarly the catholyte layer of a lithium air battery may include a cellulose separator material soaked in aqueous LiOH. In general the catholyte layer may include absorbent materials soaked in aqueous solutions containing alkali metal salts such as dissolved alkali metal hydroxide chloride carbonate perchlorate hexafluorophosphate trifluoromethylsulfonate nitrate or the like. The catholyte solvent in selected embodiments may include aqueous mixtures of ethanol methanol propanol isopropanol and the like.

As mentioned the electrolyte membrane may in certain embodiments include a NaSICON or LiSICON solid electrolyte membrane depending on the anode material that is ionically conductive but impermeable to water. Most types of NaSICON and LiSICON are impermeable to water if they are fabricated with sufficient density. Ideally the NaSICON or LiSICON is selected to maximize ionic conductivity. In certain embodiments a suitable NaSICON membrane may be produced by Ceramatec Inc. of Salt Lake City Utah. The Ceramatec NaSICON membrane is based on a sodium metal phosphate structure NaZrX PO wherein x is between 0 and 3 and X is a proprietary dopant. The Ceramatec NaSICON offers excellent moderate temperature Na ion conductivity of approximately 9 10Siemens cm at 60 C. These NaSICON membranes are excellent sodium ion conductive and chemically stable and were originally developed for salt splitting and electrodialysis applications.

The NaSICON membrane described above can be formed with a thickness of less than 10 m using a tape casting approach which is much thinner than conventional polymer or liquid filled porous separator membranes. An ultra thin electrolyte membrane may provide considerable savings in terms of volume and mass of the battery if of course the reduced thickness is not offset by a need for a thick inactive support material. Another advantage of using this type of membrane is that the materials used to produce solid inorganic electrolytes are generally single ionic conductors. This may reduce or eliminate anionic concentration gradient across the electrolyte membrane and may help to suppress undesirable side reactions or decomposition of the electrolyte. This may also expand the available choices for electrode materials and permit the battery to operate at higher voltages.

A solid electrolyte membrane further has the advantage that it provides a dense hard surface that can maintain its integrity and inhibit roughening of the microstructure. This may reduce mossy or dendritic deposits that may increase the resistivity of the membrane over time. A NaSICON membrane also is not influenced by scaling or precipitation of divalent trivalent tetravalent ions or dissolved solids and does not degrade in the presence of corrosive elements like sodium. The NaSICON membrane can is best operated over pH range from neutral to caustic e.g. 7 to 14 and selectively transport sodium ions in the presence of other ions at very high electrical efficiency greater than 95 percent .

Where a lithium ion conductor is required to produce a lithium air battery the electrolyte membrane may include a material having the formula LiMTi PO where 0 x 1.5 and where M is Al Zr Sn Hf Y or mixtures thereof. In other embodiments the electrolyte membrane may include a material having the formula LiMM PO M O where 0 x 1.5 0 y 3 M is Al Y Ti or mixtures thereof M is Zr Sn Si Ti Hf and M is Si Nb or Ge or mixtures thereof. In other embodiments an ionically conductive ceramic membrane may include a material having the formula LiZrSiPOwhere 0 x 3. In yet other embodiments an ionically conductive ceramic membrane may include a non stoichiometric lithium deficient material having the formula LiRESiO REO2SiO where RE is Y Nd Dy Sm or a mixture thereof and where is the measure of deviation from stoichiometry which may vary between about 0 and 1.

Referring to one example of a metal air battery using lithium as the anode material is illustrated. As shown lithium may be reduced at the anode to produce lithium ions. These lithium ions may travel through the anolyte electrolyte membrane and catholyte until they reach the cathode . Meanwhile at the cathode oxygen may pass through the gas diffusion layer to the reaction layer where electrons oxygen and water may react to generate peroxide and hydroxyl ions. At the reaction layer or in the catholyte the peroxide and hydroxyl ions may react with the lithium ions to form one or more of lithium hydroxide as illustrated by the chemical reactions on the left and lithium peroxide as illustrated by the chemical reactions on the right .

In general lithium hydroxide may be generated in the lithium air battery according to the following equations Anode organic anolyte Li Li 1 Cathode aqueous catholyte 0.5HO 0.25O 2 Cathode aqueous catholyte LiOH LiOH 3 

Similarly lithium peroxide may be generated in the lithium air battery according to the following equations Anode organic anolyte Li Li 1 Cathode aqueous catholyte O 2 O 2 Cathode aqueous catholyte 2Li 2O LiO 3 

As mentioned above because the metal air battery uses an aqueous catholyte the lithium hydroxide and lithium peroxide generated according to the above equations may be stored as solutes dissolved in the aqueous catholyte to a large extent before starting to form hydrates.

Referring to another example of a metal air battery using sodium as the anode material is illustrated. As shown sodium in the anode may be reduced to produce sodium ions. These ions may be conducted through the anolyte electrolyte membrane and catholyte until they reach the cathode . Meanwhile at the cathode oxygen may pass through the gas diffusion layer to the reaction layer where electrons oxygen and water may react to form peroxide and or hydroxyl ions. At the reaction layer or in the catholyte the peroxide and or hydroxyl ions may react with the sodium ions to form sodium hydroxide.

In general sodium hydroxide may be generated in the sodium air battery according to the following equations Anode organic anolyte Na Na 1 Cathode aqueous catholyte 0.5HO 0.25O OH 2 Cathode aqueous catholyte Na OHNaOH 3 

The sodium hydroxide generated above may be stored as a solute dissolved in the aqueous catholyte to a large extent prior to forming hydrates.

Although lithium may theoretically produce a battery with significantly higher energy density than sodium sodium may become a desirable choice because of its higher solubility in water. For example as indicated by Table I below lithium may have a free energy of reaction and theoretical voltage that is higher than sodium. Because lithium is much lighter than sodium lithium by itself has a much higher energy density than sodium 13308 W hr kg for lithium compared to 3632 W hr kg for sodium a difference of 9676 W hr kg .

Nevertheless when considering the water that is consumed in the reaction and then needed to maintain performance of the cathode the overall performance of the sodium air battery begins to approach or exceed the performance of the lithium air battery. For example once water is taken into account the specific energy of the sodium air battery is 2609 W hr kg and the specific energy of the lithium air battery is 5792 W hr kg a difference of 3183 W hr kg. When the oxygen consumed by the reaction is considered the specific energy of the sodium air battery is 2088 W hr kg and the specific energy of the lithium air battery is 3857 W hr kg a difference of only 1769 W hr kg.

The sodium air battery significantly outperforms the lithium air battery when the water needed to dissolve the reaction products is taken into account. As shown in Table I the solubility of sodium hydroxide i.e. 103 in water is far greater than the solubility of lithium hydroxide i.e. 12.8 . As a result significantly less water is needed in the aqueous catholyte of the sodium air battery compared to the lithium air battery to dissolve the reaction products. When considering the added weight of the water the energy density of the sodium air battery 1304 W hr kg is significantly greater than the energy density of the lithium air battery 455 W hr kg .

In practice both systems can be operated to higher specific energies by allowing some alkali hydroxide hydrate to form which can be tolerated to some extent while still maintaining cathode performance.

Referring to in certain embodiments a physical implementation of a metal air battery in accordance with the invention may include an electrically conductive housing divided into two electrically isolated halves such as stainless steel halves . One half may contain the alkali metal anode a current collector e.g. a copper screen connected to or embedded within the anode and the anolyte layer . The other half may contain the cathode a current collector e.g. a nickel screen connected to or embedded within the cathode and the catholyte layer . In selected embodiments the anolyte layer is a separator material such as a polypropylene non woven separator soaked in an anolyte solution. Similarly the catholyte layer may include a separator soaked in a catholyte solution such as a cellulose separator soaked in a metal hydroxide solution.

In certain embodiments the electrolyte membrane may be sandwiched between the two halves to seal and isolate the anolyte and catholyte compartments and to electrically isolate the first half from the second half . In certain embodiments a plastic or elastomeric grommet or other suitable material may be used to seal the two halves to the electrolyte membrane . An electrically insulating clamping device such as a clip band crimp or the like may be used to clamp the halves to the membrane layer and hold the halves together. In certain embodiments openings may be formed in the half to allow oxygen to flow to the cathode from the surrounding environment.

Referring to in selected embodiments in accordance with the invention the battery may be designed in the form of a pouch cell . The pouch cell may achieve higher energy densities than ordinary cells by efficiently using space. The pouch cell may also facilitate stacking and or wiring the cells in serial or parallel configurations to provide a battery with desired voltage and current characteristics. Although the illustrated pouch cell has a circular shape the pouch cell may also be designed to have a rectangular shape to maximize space utilization in a rectangular housing.

As shown in selected embodiments the pouch cell may include an electrically insulating outer shell or housing such as a polyethylene housing . Like the previous example the housing may in selected embodiments be divided into two halves with one half housing the catholyte and the other half housing the anode and the anolyte layer . The electrolyte membrane which in this example includes a dense layer sandwiched between two porous layers may separate the catholyte and anolyte compartments . In certain embodiments a series of standoffs may be used to create space between the anode and the membrane to accommodate the anolyte .

In selected embodiments an electrically insulating support ring or clamp such as a polyethylene ring may be bonded and sealed to an outer circumference of the membrane . This support ring may then be clamped bonded and sealed to flanges of the housing to provide an effective seal with the membrane and seal the catholyte and anolyte compartments . Similarly in selected embodiments a support ring or clamp such as a polyethylene ring may be positioned and bonded to an outer circumference of the cathode . This ring may also be bonded to the top of the housing

A bottom side of the cathode may communicate with the catholyte through an opening in the housing and a top side of the cathode may communicate with an oxygen source. Electrically conductive tabs may be electrically connected to current collectors not shown which may be connected to or embedded within the anode and cathode respectively.

Referring to a polarization curve showing the operating voltage of one embodiment of a non optimized sodium air pouch cell as a function of current density is illustrated. In this example the cell utilizes a dense NaSICON electrolyte membrane with a thickness of approximately 380 m. Ideally the thickness of the membrane and the volume of the catholyte will be further reduced to decrease the polarization of the cell. This will flatten out the curve and provide improved current voltage characteristics.

As shown the polarization curve of the sodium air cell exhibits a predominantly linear region when the current density is between about 0 and 4 mA cm while delivering between about 2.7 and 1.5 volts. The voltage drops off significantly after the current density exceeds 4 mA cm. Thus the cell is only viable at current densities that are less than about 4 mA cm however with further optimization much higher current densities are expected to be viable and with desirable voltage potential.

Referring to a graph comparing the energy density of a 100 W hr battery pack using a foil pouch cell and a 100 W hr battery pack using a titanium can cell is illustrated. The energy density of each type of battery is calculated as a function of the number of cells in the battery pack. As shown the battery pack that uses the pouch cells has a higher energy density than the battery pack that uses the titanium cans for any number of cells in the battery pack. This is due to the pouch cell s more efficient use of space and materials. Nevertheless the energy density differential may increase significantly as the number of cells in the battery pack increases. For example the energy density of the battery pack using the pouch cells exceeds the energy density of the battery pack using the titanium cans by only about 20 percent where there are few cells e.g. 0 to 10 cells . However the energy density of the battery pack using the pouch cells exceeds the energy density of the battery pack using the titanium cans by approximately 50 percent when the number of cells approaches 50 cells. Thus it becomes increasingly advantageous to use a foil pouch cell design when multiple cells are wired together.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its basic principles or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

