---

title: Transducer for measuring dynamic translation by differential variable reluctance
abstract: A differential variable reluctance transducer (DVRT) is provided to measure a translation parameter, such as acceleration and/or deceleration of a test projectile. The DVRT, contained in a canister of the projectile, includes a cylindrical housing and an electronics module. The housing defines a cavity containing insulation and a bobbin around which a wire coil is wrapped. The housing has an attachment end and a distal end that faces the acceleration indicator. The bobbin is disposed substantially collinear to the housing. The wire coil is helically disposed around the bobbin. The insulation fills the remainder of the cavity. The electronics module receives electric current from the wire coil and connects to a data recorder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=H0002265&OS=H0002265&RS=H0002265
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: H0002265
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070516
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 60 838 531 with a filing date of Aug. 9 2006 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to instrumentation for measuring acceleration in a gun launched projectile and more particularly to a fuse mounted differential variable resistance transducer disposed aft of the simulated warhead.

Destruction of underground hardened targets may require deep penetration munitions. Such devices can include gun launched projectiles. Tests to correlate penetration depth with deceleration of an instrumented shell into a simulated target may incorporate displacement sensors such as accelerometers and proximity detectors. A Hall effect probe which responds to Lorentz force reaction to a magnetic field perpendicular to the current flow represents an exemplary proximity sensor without physical contact with a neighboring object. Further details on these principles can be found in http hyperphysics.phyastr.gsu.edu hbase magnetic hall.html.

In the presence of a magnetic field the path of an electric current curves perpendicular to the magnetic field due to the Lorentz force producing an asymmetric distribution of charge density across the Hall effect probe or device that generates an electric potential. In response to voltage applied across two terminals of the Hall device a third terminal provides a voltage proportional to the induced current. Hall devices have no mechanically moving parts and thus provide enhanced reliability in extreme environments such as for projectiles subject to high accelerating and decelerating conditions.

Conventional test devices yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular a test projectile for propelled ejection from a launch mechanism is used to evaluate penetration into a concrete target. The projectile includes a casing having a cavity bore an explosive simulant disposed at a fore end of the bore an instrumentation canister aft of the simulant and rigidly mounted to the casing and a data recorder. The bore is substantially coaxial with the casing s longitudinal centerline. The canister includes an electronic displacement measuring instrument that faces a conductive aft surface of the simulant. The instrument provides an electronic signal to measure a translation parameter supplied to the recorder.

Preferably a differential variable reluctance transducer DVRT represents the instrument for measuring the translation parameter such as acceleration and or deceleration of the explosive stimulant contained in the projectile warhead. As employed in the specification and claims the term acceleration encompasses both positive i.e. velocity increasing acceleration and negative i.e. velocity decreasing deceleration unless otherwise indicated.

In various exemplary embodiments the test projectile is used to evaluate penetration into a concrete target. The projectile includes the DVRT that includes a cylindrical housing and an electronics module. The housing defines a cavity containing insulation and a bobbin around which a wire coil is wrapped.

Various exemplary embodiments provide for the housing as having an attachment end and a distal end that faces the acceleration indicator. The bobbin is disposed substantially parallel to the housing. The wire coil is helically disposed around the bobbin. The insulation fills the remainder of the cavity. The electronics module receives electric current from the wire coil and terminates in an electrical connector to a data recorder. A cable connects the housing to the electronics module.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Efforts to improve shock hardening of the Hall device for a penetration test projectile or shell have yielded improvements described in the embodiments described herein. An illustration of a forward portion of the projectile is shown in FIG. A. The projectile includes a booster within which a differential variable reluctance transducer DVRT fuse or sensor may be disposed. The fuse includes the Hall device. Exemplary non contact DVRT devices are provided by MicroStrain Inc. at Williston Vt. such as various models cursorily described at http www.microstrain.com ncdvrt.aspx. The projectile includes an outer case or housing composed of hardened 4340 steel and being 4 inches in diameter for example. The booster is disposed aft of the breech end of a forward cavity .

A detail of the booster is shown in booster charge may be disposed within the booster s internal cylindrical cavity and forward of the fuse . The projectile may be enveloped in a sabot see to enable launch from a large caliber gun for achieving higher velocity than otherwise. Upon impact with a penetration target after being fired from a gun the projectile decelerates retarding its velocity through the target. Forward momentum during the projectile s deceleration causes the booster to translate into the cavity as indicated by the dash outline .

The forward bore may include a nylon insert into which an explosive simulant may be disposed. The insert may then be threaded into the cavity . In this example the simulant is 1.5 inches in diameter and 3.5 inches in height and may be composed of gelatinous material having analogous mass properties of AFX 757 explosive. The aft side of the simulant facing the DVRT fuse may be covered by four layers aluminum tape thereby presenting a highly conductive face layer .

A DVRT canister may be disposed aft of the insert and the simulant . The DVRT canister may be secured to the casing of the projectile by a radially extending flange . The DVRT fuse may be disposed within a tube within the DVRT canister . A recorder canister may be disposed within the aft bore to contain a data recorder. An accelerator mount with a data coupling transfer interface may connect the recorder canister with accelerometer transducers for longitudinal and transverse directional velocity changes respectively.

The DVRT canister houses the DVRT fuse together with circuitry for electronic demodulation and signal conditioning. The sensor coils may be disposed in the forward end of the canister . The circuitry may be packed among glass impact beads in the middle of the canister for shock resistance. The data recorder can typically record four channels of data at a sample rate of 8.6 s microseconds per channel in high shock environments up to 50 000 G.

The data recorder in conjunction with the DVRT operates on an alkaline 10.5 V volts direct current battery pack and stores data for 48 hours providing time to recover the projectile . The accelerator mount may contain a piezoresistive 200 kG accelerometer to sense the G Earth s gravitational acceleration at mean radius equivalent levels. The accelerometer may be mounted on a 10 kHz low pass mechanical polysulfide filter to reduce ringing and mitigate against damage. The instrumentation may be calibrated to an accuracy of 0.0005 inch to measure distance between the DVRT fuse and the simulant aft face layer .

The DVRT transducer operates on the principle of comparing signals from a pair of coils for sense and compensation. When the face of the transducer is brought in close proximity to a ferrous or highly conductive material the reluctance of the sense coil changes while the compensation coil acts as a reference. High frequency alternating current AC e.g. sine wave excitation e.g. by an oscillator drives the coils and a sensitive demodulator measures the differential reluctance of the coils. Reluctance represents the opposition in a circuit to magnetic flux from the induced electric current by ratio of the magnetic potential difference to the corresponding flux.

Differencing the outputs from the two coils provides a sensitive measure of the position while canceling variations caused by temperature drift. Ferrous targets change the sense coils reluctance by altering the magnetic circuit s permeability. By contrast conductive targets e.g. aluminum operate by the interaction of eddy currents induced in the target s skin i.e. aft face layer with the magnetic field around the sense coil.

Although the DVRT measures linear displacement the electronics in the DVRT recorder can differentiate the displacement with respect to time to obtain velocity and can further differentiate the velocity with respect to time to obtain acceleration. Thus the system may measure and record a translation parameter that includes at least one of displacement velocity and acceleration of the gap.

This gap distance between the aft face layer of the simulant and a forward face of the booster may be substantially negligible upon installation. For this configuration the calibration voltage may be between about 3 to 5 V. After acceleration on launch and deceleration on target impact the simulant may deformably compress while the DVRT fuse remains fixed within the projectile by the flange and a threaded ring behind the recorder . The relative motion between the layer and the booster increases the separation therebetween. The Hall effect technique enables accurate measurement to about 10 mVcorresponding to an effective distance of about 0.3 inch.

The housing has a diameter of 0.75 inch and a length of 1.25 inches. A wire sense coil see is helically wrapped around the bobbin and surrounded by epoxy . The wire coil carries the current for sensing changes in the magnetic field from which acceleration and or deceleration may be determined. The housing and the bobbin have longitudinal axes substantially proximate and parallel to each other. Thus the bobbin may be substantially collinear with a longitudinal centerline axis of the axi symmetric housing . The housing lacks grooves or screw threads to hold the epoxy .

A cable having a diameter of 0.070 inch and a length of 10 inches connects the housing from an attachment end opposite the distal end to an electronics module having a diameter of 0.61 inch and a length of 2.00 inches terminated by a 24 American Wire Gauge AWG hookup for electrical conduction. The electronics module communicates with the housing for receiving induced voltage potential from the wire coil. The electronics module communicates with a data recorder by means of the hookup . Deficiencies in the first embodiment s physical integrity led to further refinements.

The membrane and the grooves in the housing inhibit ejection from the housing of the wire coil within the epoxy . Alternatively the housing may incorporate ridges instead of grooves on its inside surface to increase structural integrity there. The larger diameter of the housing as compared to the first embodiment housing enables the sensor coil s diameter to be enlarged thereby increasing sensitivity and range.

A cable having a diameter of 0.070 inch and a length of 2.5 inches connects the housing to an electronics module having a diameter of 0.61 inch and a length of 2.60 inches terminated by a 24 AWG hookup . The membrane and the housing grooves inhibit ejection from the housing of the wire coil within the epoxy . The shorter cable between the fuse and the electronics module reduces impedance.

The larger diameter of the housing as compared to the first and second embodiment housings enables the sensor coil s diameter to be enlarged thereby increasing sensitivity and range of travel for the fuse . The housing includes grooves cut into its inside surface. The membrane and the housing grooves inhibit ejection from the housing of the wire coil within the epoxy . A cable having a diameter of 0.065 inch and a length of 2.5 inches connects the housing to an electronics module having a diameter of 0.38 inch and a length of 2.50 inches terminated by a 24 AWG hookup .

The lessened mass and volume of the electronics module reduces the stress imposed on the cable and the hookup . In combination these design augmentations for the third embodiment enable impact of the projectile from an 8 inch gun into a concrete target at decelerations of 8.5 kG kilo gravity accelerations for a duration of 18 ms milliseconds on launch and 4 to 6 kG on impact for a duration of 20 ms.

The frequency of the RC oscillator can be selected via values for the resistor and capacitor of the selector connected in parallel. The RC oscillator provides signal stability in frequency and or amplitude against influence by mechanical forces. An example oscillator integrated circuit is LTC6900 from Linear Technology in Milpitas Calif. having acceptable drift and acceleration insensitivity for gun projectile test purposes. The oscillator generates an AC signal that drives an inductor pair from a center tap. A grounded resistance pair combined with the inductor pair forms a DVRT Wheatstone bridge.

Signals A and B at the ends of the DVRT Wheatstone bridge may be demodulated and amplified to provide the DC voltage output as being proportional to the logarithm of the distance to the target e.g. the aft face layer . The demodulator includes a matching pair of semiconductor diodes in parallel connecting the Signals A and B to the positive and negative inputs of the DC amplifier . The semiconductor diodes can be chosen to have matched characteristics. The offset potentiometer removes offset voltages from the demodulator s output. Gain of the amplifier may be selected using the gain potentiometer .

The frequency of the AC excitation may be selected to operate the DVRT below its self resonant frequency yet high enough to provide a reasonable load impedance to the oscillator for a given DVRT inductance. This AC excitation may be fed to a center tap in the inductance pair where the measurement coil and the reference coil connect together. In addition the resistance coils terminate together in the resistance pair with the two connections forming the Wheatstone bridge.

In the absence of a metallic target within the measurement range of the DVRT the inductance of the measurement coil equals that of the reference coil thereby producing no differential signal. A metallic target e.g. the aft face layer in the proximity of the DVRT fuse changes the inductance of the measurement coil resulting in voltage differences between Signals A and B.

These signals may be demodulated or rectified to remove the high frequency AC component. This process yields a differential DC signal that may be approximately proportional to the logarithm of the proximity distance to the target and the measurement coil. The DVRT may be designed so that ambient temperature variations affect both reference and measurement coils equally thereby cancelling temperature effects on distance measurements.

Upon launch the sabot petals separates to release the projectile traveling at between 2500 ft sec and 4000 ft sec a distance of 40 feet past a video backdrop and an angle of attack mirror . High speed cameras visually record the projectile s travel while a radar transmitter and receiver on the gun uses Doppler measurements for complementary tracking data.

The isometric illustration shows the gun positioned on a ramp for stability. The barrel points to the target located in the facility . The gun and the facility are flanked by a platform and are separated by a rail track onto which the target may be positioned.

The initial impact portion is composed of cellular concrete having a density of 90 lb ft pounds mass per cubic foot and an unconfined compressive strength UCS of 3000 psi pounds force per square inch . UCS is used for borability predictions and is based on the ASTM D2938 standard. The intermediate portion is composed of low strength having a density of 125 lb ftand a UCS of 3300 psi.

The low strength concrete is based on a formula from the Engineer Research and Development Center ERDC of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The terminal portion which may include only a single module may be composed of high strength concrete having a density of 150 lb ftand a UCS of 9000 psi.

For the second plot the abscissa represents penetration depth feet into the target while the ordinate represents acceleration kG . The acceleration depth plot illustrates acceleration measurements shown as a trace that are filtered for transient noise and a trace for displacement of the stimulant . Additionally the plot shows a prediction trace using a transient dynamics finite element code named PRONTO used for smooth particle hydrodynamics SPH predictions. The plot also denotes a dash line showing the actual depth of penetration for the test about 22 feet.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

