---

title: Gas mask filter canister
abstract: A filter for a gas mask has a concave outlet wall and a convex inlet wall with a particulate filter bed that has a uniform depth and conforms substantially to the shape of the inlet and outlet wall. The side wall can have an elliptical, circular or convex shape to conform to the curvature of the wearer's face, or a planar shape. The filter an be a double particulate filter element and a double adsorption filter element configured for axial airflow therethrough with a bifurcated flow pattern. The adsorption filter element comprises a granulated charcoal, a composite material having carbon particles combined with binder particles, or an immobilized bed of charcoal granules and EVA-coated fibers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08292991&OS=08292991&RS=08292991
owner: Avon Protection Systems, Inc.
number: 08292991
owner_city: Cadillac
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071031
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 512 540 filed Oct. 22 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 311 764 issued Dec. 25 2007 which claims priority of International Application No. PCT US03 12787 filed Apr. 25 2003 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 319 207 filed Apr. 26 2002 all which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under DAAD13 00 C 0021 by the Department of Defense US Special Operations Command . The government has certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to gas masks and filter canisters therefor. In one aspect the invention relates to a filter canister having a profile that conforms to the curvature of the wearer s face. In another aspect the invention relates to a gas mask with a mask housing and a filter cartridge that conforms to the face of the wearer. In another of its aspects the invention relates to a low profile filter canister

PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839 published Oct. 25 2001 discloses a bayonet type connector for connecting a removable filter to a gas mask. A filter canister comprising a hollow container having an oval shape is also disclosed with parallel planar top and mounting surfaces separated by a perimeter wall. The canister is mounted to the mask with a twist and lock mechanism for quick change of spent canisters. A secondary filter for treating toxic industrial materials is disclosed for adding to the primary canister as necessary by a twist and lock mechanism.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 019 311 to Koslow issued May 28 1991 discloses a process for producing a composite material having carbon particles combined with binder particles which through heat and pressure are formed into a substantially uniform stabilized mixture which can retain a preselected shape.

Conventional replaceable circular or elliptical gas mask filters with parallel planar top and mounting surfaces can be mounted to one or to both sides of the mask and extend laterally outwardly of the mask. Such filters typically comprise a folded paper or fabric particulate filter and a granulated carbon adsorption filter. In order to maximize the density of the carbon granules and avoid introducing flow channels through the adsorption filter the granulated carbon is typically placed in the filter canister through a process of snow storm filling the granulated carbon into the filter in such a way that the density of the granules is maximized. This process requires that the top and mounting surfaces be flat.

Laterally mounted filters with flat top and mounting surfaces extend outwardly of the wearer s face and can interfere with the wearer s vision and activities e.g. sighting a firearm or contact objects in close proximity to the wearer potentially damaging the filter and rendering it inoperative and injuring the wearer. Because the auxiliary filter further extends outwardly of the mask the use of an auxiliary filter can exacerbate the problems inherent with the outwardly extending primary filter.

Filters having a curved section to conform closely to the curvature of the wearer s face can mitigate many of the problems associated with conventional filters having flat top and mounting surfaces. However the curvature of the filter interferes with the conventional snow storm filling method of placing the carbon filter granules in the filter canister and can prevent the granules from assuming a sufficient density. As well the curvature of the filter canister can cause unacceptable variations in the thickness of the carbon layer leading to insufficient protection of the wearer.

A mask with dual filter units shaped to conform to the shape of the face is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 078 132 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 176 239. The filter units are of a non circular shape and appear to be molded of a particulate filter material with a binder.

According to the invention a filter canister for a gas mask has a housing with an upper wall a lower wall and a side wall an inlet opening in the upper wall and an outlet opening in the lower wall the lower wall further including a connector defining the outlet opening for removably mounting the canister to the gas mask and at least one filter element within the housing and forming an axial airflow path between the inlet and the outlet openings wherein the upper wall is convex and the lower wall is concave to conform the filter canister to the face of the user.

In one embodiment the least one filter element comprises an adsorption bed and preferably comprises at least one of a granulated charcoal and a composite material having carbon particles combined with binder particles. In a preferred embodiment adsorption filter bed comprises activated charcoal impregnated with at least one of copper zinc silver molybdenum and triethylenediamine.

In a preferred embodiment the at least one filter bed has a concave surface that faces the lower wall and a convex surface that faces the upper wall. In addition the at least one filter bed further comprises a particulate granulated adsorption material.

The side wall of the filter canister can take a number of different shapes. In one embodiment the side wall is elongated or elliptically shaped.

Further according to the invention a gas mask assembly comprises a mask housing having filter mount defining an inlet port for mask housing and a filter canister as described above removably mounted to the filter mount in close proximity to the mask housing to conform the filter canister to the face of the mask user.

In one embodiment the filter mount and the filter canister connector comprise twist and lock connectors. Typically the mask has a self sealing mechanism mounted in the inlet port for sealing the inlet port when the filter canister is removed from the mask housing.

In a further embodiment the upper wall has a second connector for mounting an auxiliary filter canister and an auxiliary filter canister is mounted to the second connector. The auxiliary canister has an inlet wall an outlet wall a side wall an inlet opening in the inlet wall an outlet opening in the outlet wall and an auxiliary filter medium adapted to remove TIM toxic industrial materials contaminants from air mounted within the auxiliary filter canister. The canister further defines an air flow path through the auxiliary filter medium between the inlet opening and the outlet opening in the auxiliary filter canister and a third connector is mounted to the outlet wall of the auxiliary filter canister and is adapted to connect to the second connector to mount the auxiliary filter canister to the filter canister for airflow serially therethrough.

Further the second and third connectors can be twist and lock connectors and can be conventional threaded connections. When the second and third connectors are twist and lock connectors the side wall of the auxiliary canister can be elliptically shaped.

A gas mask assembly according the invention is shown in . As shown in the assembly comprises a mask housing and a filter assembly . The mask housing comprises a filter mount at lower lateral portions of the mask housing comprising a self sealing mechanism not shown as disclosed in PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839 published Oct. 25 2001 and incorporated herein by reference and an inlet port . The inlet port is preferably provided with a twist and lock or bayonet filter mount as disclosed in PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839. A conventional female type threaded connector can also be utilized. The mask housing can also comprise a speech module that combines the functions of voice projection and drinking. Such a speech module is disclosed in PCT Application No. US02 22591 published Jan. 30 2003.

In the preferred twist and lock configuration shown in PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839 the base of the filter is fitted with three lugs and an orientation notch so that it can only fit one way on the mating filter mount on the mask housing or face piece. The action of twisting the filter activates two locks on the filter such that the filter cannot inadvertently be released. Two clip locks on the filter are of a living hinge type such that they must both be pressed simultaneously in order to release the filter to untwist it from its locked position on the filter mount. A rubber seal is fitted to the filter that also acts under compression at the base of the filter mount. The seal also wipes the side of the filter mount as it is fitted. The process of seating the filter and an additional feature on the filter activates a self sealing valve that opens when the filter is attached but closes when the filter is removed. This permits the user to change filters while being in a contaminated environment should the need arise. A suitable self sealing valve has been disclosed in PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839.

As shown in the filter assembly comprises a primary filter and an auxiliary filter . The primary filter is provided with a connector which is shown in as comprising a male type threaded connector for matingly interconnecting with female type threads of the inlet port of the mask housing for mounting the primary filter to the mask housing . As discussed above the primary filter and the inlet port can preferably be provided with a twist and lock connector as disclosed in PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839. The auxiliary filter is preferably mounted to the primary filter through a similar twist and lock or threaded connection such as disclosed in the PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839. show the use of a twist and lock connector for connecting the auxiliary filter to the primary filter .

Referring now to the primary filter comprises an elliptically shaped primary filter canister having a canister base and a canister cover . The canister base comprises a canister floor a connector extending axially outwardly therefrom and a canister peripheral wall extending generally orthogonally from the canister floor . The canister cover comprises a top wall and a cover peripheral wall extending generally orthogonally therefrom. The peripheral wall terminates in a downwardly depending perimeter outer lip . The top wall terminates in a downwardly depending inner lip . The canister cover is joined to the canister base with the perimeter outer lip extending over an upper end of the peripheral wall to form the circular or elliptical generally doughnut shaped canister having the connector and defining an interior chamber .

The connector comprises an outlet aperture defining a filter outlet opening for fluid communication with the inlet port when the primary filter is attached to the mask housing .

The chamber holds an elliptical generally doughnut shaped primary filter element . The filter element comprises a top portion and a bottom portion . The top portion comprises an elliptical ring shaped top wall a downwardly depending elliptical outer sidewall connected thereto and a downwardly depending circular inner sidewall connected to the top wall and uniformly spaced inwardly of the outer sidewall . The inner sidewall is provided with radially spaced filter apertures at a lower portion thereof The bottom portion comprises an elliptical bottom wall an upwardly extending elliptical outer sidewall connected thereto an upwardly extending circular inner sidewall connected to the bottom wall and uniformly spaced inwardly of the outer sidewall and a centrally located circular inlet floor connected to the inner sidewall orthogonal thereto. The inner sidewall forms a center inlet aperture to define a cylindrical filter inlet opening terminating at the inlet floor . The filter inlet opening can optionally be covered with an integral grille piece not shown to prevent large particles such as sand or other debris from entering the filter .

The top portion and the bottom portion matingly communicate to form the primary filter element by joining the outer sidewall to the outer sidewall at a suitable outer wall joint and joining the inner sidewall to the inner sidewall at a suitable inner wall joint . The joints comprise rigid airtight joints. The top wall and the bottom wall are provided with a plurality of apertures not shown extending therethrough for fluid communication of the interior of the filter element with the chamber .

The primary filter element comprises a pair of spaced apart ring shaped particulate filter elements of uniform thickness and a pair of spaced apart ring shaped adsorption filter elements of uniform thickness enclosed therein separated by a ring shaped perforated retainer and arranged in a stacked relationship. The particulate filter elements extend from the inner sidewalls to the outer side walls . In the particulate filter elements are shown separated by an inlet channel in fluid communication with the filter apertures .

The adsorption filter elements extend from the inner sidewalls to the outer side walls . The adsorption filter elements are shown spaced from the particulate filter elements with the intervening retainer . However the adsorption filter elements can be separated from the particulate filter elements by a permeable membrane or can be stacked in contact with one another. The retainer extends from the inner sidewalls to the outer side walls and is fixedly attached thereto preferably by ultrasonic welding.

The primary filter element is provided with a plurality of radially extending upper ribs extending upwardly from the top wall and a plurality of radially extending lower ribs extending downwardly from the bottom wall . The upper ribs bear against the underside of the top wall and the lower ribs bear against the underside of the canister floor to retain the filter element in a fixed position relative to the primary filter canister and form upper radial air flow channels and lower radial air flow channels along the top and bottom respectively of the filter element . Additionally the outer walls of the filter element terminate somewhat short of the outer walls of the primary filter canister to form a vertical annular air flow channel between the upper flow channel and the lower flow channel .

Referring to the flow of air through the filter is indicated by the arrows designated as A . Air is introduced into the primary filter through the filter inlet opening and into the primary filter element through the filter apertures . The air proceeds through the inlet channel and then flows upwardly and downwardly through the particulate filter elements . After exiting the particulate filter elements the air flows through the retainer and then through the adsorption filter elements to exit the filter element through apertures in the top wall and the bottom wall . Air exiting through the bottom wall flows downwardly into the lower flow channel . Air exiting through the top wall flows upwardly into the upper flow channel then radially to the vertical flow channel then downwardly into the lower flow channel . Air flows radially out of the lower flow channel to exit the primary filter canister through the filter outlet opening and into the mask housing .

The particulate filter element removes aerosols particulate materials and droplets from contaminated air and can comprise any particulate filtration media suitable for removing aerosols particulate materials and droplets including pleated sheets electrostatically charged fibers or fiberglass paper in a suitable configuration for the axial air flow described herein. Preferably the particulate filter element comprises an electrostatically charged nonwoven fabric manufactured by 3M Company and sold under the product name AEM5.

The adsorption filter element preferably comprises a granulated activated charcoal impregnated to provide protection against military war gases with heavy metals salts such as copper silver zinc and molybdenum salts and also of amine triethylenediamine The impregnants react chemically with the low boiling point compounds in order to retain them on the charcoal. Other conventional impregnated charcoals or alumina suitable for military applications can be used as can non impregnated charcoals for filters to be used in industrial rather than military applications. As an example a copper sulfate treated charcoal can be used in an environment containing ammonia.

The granulated charcoal comprising the pair of adsorbent filter elements is held between the top wall or canister floor the side walls and the retainers and is placed into the filter element by a suitable process preferably vibratory filling in order to achieve a specified density. Nonwoven fines filters not shown separating the adsorbent filter elements from the top wall the canister floor and the retainer are used to prevent small charcoal granules from migrating through the top wall the canister floor and the retainers . As seen in the adsorbent filter elements have a concave lower surface defined by bottom wall that faces the canister base and generally conforms to the concave shape thereof The adsorbent filter elements further have a convex upper surface that faces the canister cover and which generally conforms to the convex shape thereof.

One example of a process for placing the granulated charcoal into the filter is described in WO 03 090872 A1 which is incorporated herein by reference. The process proceeds generally as follows. The fines filters are first bonded to the top wall the bottom wall and the retainers by ultrasonic welding. The retainers are ultrasonically welded in position in the primary filter element . A 10 millimeter orifice not shown is provided in the filter element through which the charcoal granules are introduced while the filter element is operably supported on a vibrating platform not shown . The magnitude of both horizontal and vertical forces is carefully controlled in order to impart sufficient energy into the charcoal granules to enable them to achieve an optimum packing density of approximately 0.62 grams per cubic centimeter. When filling is complete a plug is placed into the 10 millimeter orifice and sealed preferably by ultrasonic welding to the filter element to complete the enclosure of the granular bed.

Two cut packs each comprising three layers of 3M AEM5 are then cut to the correct filter shape and placed into the filter element adjacent the retainers to form the particulate filter elements . Particulate layers that contain a high proportion of polypropylene can be ultrasonically welded to the filter element . The outer side walls and the inner side walls are then ultrasonically welded together the filter element is placed into the filter canister and the canister cover is welded to the canister base .

Alternatively the adsorption filter element can comprise the PLEKX material manufactured by KX Corporation and disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 019 311 to Koslow issued May 28 1991 and incorporated herein by reference. The PLEKX material comprises a composite material having carbon particles combined with binder particles which through heat and pressure are formed into a substantially uniform stabilized mixture which can retain a preselected shape. As used herein the PLEKX material is formed into an 8 layer stack bonded to form a filter pack by injection molding a surrounding sleeve of polymer such as polypropylene or another elastomer which is press fit into the primary filter element .

Alternatively the adsorption filter element can comprise an immobilized bed of granulated activated charcoal fabricated from a mixture of charcoal granules and EVA coated fibers such as nylon or fiberglass coated fibers. The fibers are cut to about 3 mm in length and are combined with the charcoal granules in the approximate proportion of 20 by weight of the fibers to the granules. The mixture is heated to the melt flow temperature of the EVA coating of the fibers and formed into a preselected shape to conformably fit within the primary filter element .

As discussed previously the filter canister is shown having a threaded connection for connecting the filter canister to the mask housing . A twist and lock or bayonet connector as described in PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839 is preferably used to connect the filter canister to the mask housing . An auxiliary filter having a conformable elliptical shape or a conventional cylindrical shape to filter out toxic industrial materials or non typical military contaminants can be mounted to the primary filter preferably using a bayonet connection as described in PCT International Publication No. WO 01 78839. The use of a secondary filter specific to toxic industrial chemicals TIC or toxic industrial materials TIM can be used to significantly extend the life of the primary filter.

There is a stated need to broaden the scope of performance of military filters to include a very wide range of toxic industrial chemicals that occur either as vapor or liquid droplets solid liquid aerosols or particulate matter. Conventional military charcoals being non specific adsorbents to a great degree possess the characteristics to remove many of these chemicals from the air stream. However there are chemicals that are widely used in industrial processes and available in large quantities that possess toxicity high enough to be of concern to military personnel. Ammonia formaldehyde and ethylene oxide are three chemicals that cause such concern and conventional military charcoals are not very effective against them. It is possible to increase the weight of charcoal adsorbent in the filter to improve protection against such chemicals but this would impose a significantly increased burden on military personnel due to the additional weight increased breathing resistance and life cycle cost of the equipment. An effective way to reduce this burden is the use of the auxiliary filter that can be added to the primary military filter as the need arises.

An example of how the combination of the primary and auxiliary filters works is described for the filtering of ammonia. A primary filter canister consisting of activated charcoal impregnated with copper zinc silver molybdenum and triethylenediamine was challenged with a concentration of 1000 milligrams metereach of cyanogen chloride and ammonia. While the cyanogen chloride breakthrough was greater than 45 minutes the ammonia breakthrough was less than 5 minutes. An auxiliary filter canister consisting of copper sulfate impregnated activated carbon was attached to the primary filter and this new configuration was challenged with 1000 milligrams metereach of cyanogen chloride and ammonia. The breakthrough time for both cyanogen chloride and ammonia was greater than 45 minutes

The auxiliary filter can comprise a conventional TIC filter element arrangement or the unique filter element arrangement disclosed herein. As well the primary filter and auxiliary filter can also be adapted to accept a hose fitting for use in military vehicles.

The unique filter assembly disclosed herein improves the functionality of a conventional gas mask by conforming the primary filter and the auxiliary filter to the curvature of the wearer s face thereby streamlining the profile of the mask and filter. The streamlined profile reduces the potential that the filters will interfere with the wearer s vision and activities e.g. sighting a firearm or contact objects in close proximity to the wearer potentially damaging the filter and rendering it inoperative and injuring the wearer. The improved adsorption filter element provides the desired filtering capability of a granulated activated charcoal filter in an elliptical conformal filter.

Further the bifurcated flow construction with the double particulate and adsorption filters reduce the airflow resistance through the filter compared with a comparable axial flow filter due to the increase in filtration surface area and the corresponding reduction in the face velocity. At the same time the relatively low profile and the conformal shape minimize interference with normal activities. The filtration surface area is further increased by the elliptical shape of the filter.

The invention has been described with respect to a specific embodiment that represents the best mode for practicing the invention but should not be considered to limit the invention to any particular embodiment. The filter canister can be a circular shape or any complex shape as well as an elliptical shape. Further the filter canister can be flat rather than conformal with the use of the bifurcated flow pattern disclosed above. Further the method of attaching the filter canister to the mask housing can be the preferred twist and lock connector or can be threaded or any other known manner of releasably mounting the filter canister to the mask housing.

While the invention has been specifically described in connection with certain specific embodiments thereof it is to be understood that this is by way of illustration and not of limitation. Reasonable variation and modification are possible within the scope of the foregoing description and drawings without departing from the spirit of the invention.

