---

title: Systems and methods for consumer-generated media reputation management
abstract: TruCast is a method for management, by way of gathering, storing, analyzing, tracking, sorting, determining the relevance of, visualizing, and responding to all available consumer generated media. Some examples of consumer generated media include web logs or “blogs”, mobile phone blogs or “mo-blogs”, forums, electronic discussion messages, Usenet, message boards, BBS emulating services, product review and discussion web sites, online retail sites that support customer comments, social networks, media repositories, and digital libraries. Any web hosted system for the persistent public storage of human commentary is a potential target for this method. The system is comprised of a coordinated software and hardware system designed to perform management, collection, storage, analysis, workflow, visualization, and response tasks upon this media. This system permits a unified interface to manage, target, and accelerate interactions within this space, facilitating public relations, marketing, advertising, consumer outreach, political debate, and other modes of directed discourse.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07720835&OS=07720835&RS=07720835
owner: Visible Technologies LLC
number: 07720835
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070507
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 746 621 filed May 5 2006 U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 861 406 filed Nov. 27 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 903 810 filed Feb. 26 2007. Each of the foregoing applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully set forth herein.

This disclosure is protected under United States and International Copyright Laws. 2006 2007 Visible Technologies. All Rights Reserved. A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure after formal publication by the USPTO as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

As used herein the term Consumer Generated Media hereinafter CGM is a phrase that describes a wide variety of Internet web pages or sites which are sometimes individually labeled as web logs or blogs mobile phone blogs or mo blogs video hosting blogs or vlogs or vblogs forums electronic discussion messages Usenet message boards BBS emulating services product review and discussion web sites online retail sites that support customer comments social networks media repositories audio and video sharing sites networks and digital libraries. Private non Internet information systems can host CGM content as well via environments like Sharepoint Wiki Jira CRM systems ERP systems and advertising systems. Other acronyms that describe this space are CCC consumer created content WSM weblogs and social media WOMM Word of Mouth Media or OWOM online word of mouth and many others.

As used herein the term Keyphrase refers to a word string of words or groups of words with Boolean modifiers that are used as models for discovering CGM content that might be relevant to a given topic. Could also be an example image audio file or video file that has characteristics that would be used for content discovery and matching.

As used herein the term Post refers to a single piece of CGM content. This might be a literal weblog posting a comment a forum reply a product review or any other single element of CGM content.

As used herein the term Content refers to media that resides on CGM sites. CGM is often text but includes audio files and streams podcasts mp3 streamcasts Internet radio etc. video files and streams animations flash java and other forms of multimedia.

As used herein the term UI refers to a User Interface that users interact with computer software perform work and review results.

As used herein the term IM refers to an Instant Messenger which is a class of software applications that allow direct text based communication between known peers.

As used herein the term Thread refers to an original post and all of the comments connected to it present on a blog or forum. A discussion thread holds the information of content display order so this message came first followed by this followed by this.

As used herein the term Permalink refers to a URL which persistently points to an individual CGM thread.

The Internet and other computer networks are communication systems. The sophistication of this communication has improved and the primary modes differentiated over time and technological progress. Each primary mode of online communication varies based on a combination of three basic values privacy and persistence and control. Email as a communications medium is private communications are initially exchanged only between named recipients persistent saved in inboxes or mail servers but lacks control once you send the message you can t take it back or edit it or limit re use of it . Instant messaging is private typically not persistent some newer clients are now allowing users to save history so this mode is changing and lacks control. Message boards are public typically all members and often all Internet users can access your message persistent but lack control they are typically moderated by a central owner of the board . Chat rooms are public again some are membership based typically not persistent and lack control.

Blogs and Social Networks are the predominant communications mediums that permit author control. By reducing the cost technical sophistication and experience required to create and administer a web site blogs and other persistent online communication have given an unprecedented amount of editorial control to millions of online authors. This has created a unique new environment for creative expression commentary discourse and criticism without the historical limits of editorial control cost technical expertise or distribution exposure.

There is significant value in the information contained within this public media. Because the opinions topics of discussion brands and celebrities mentioned and relationships evinced are typically totally unsolicited the information presented if well studied represents an amazing new source of social insight consumer feedback opinion measurement popularity analysis and messaging data. It also represents a fully exposed granular network of peer and hierarchical relationships rich with authority and influence. The marketing advertising and PR value of this information is unprecedented.

This new medium represents a significant challenge for interested parties to comprehensively understand and interact with. As of Q1 2007 estimates for the number of active unique online CGM sites forums blogs social networks etc. range from 50 to 71 million with growth rates in the hundreds of thousands of new sites per day. Compared to the typical mediums that PR Advertising and Marketing businesses and divisions interact with 

Businesses and other motivated communicators have come to depend on software that perform Business Intelligence Customer Relationship Management and Enterprise Resource Planning tasks to facilitate accelerated organized prioritized tracked and analyzed interaction with customers and other target groups voters consumers pundits opinion leaders analysts reporters etc. . These systems have been extended to facilitate IM E mail and telephone interactions. These media have been successfully integrated because of standards jabber pop3 smtp pots imap that require that all participant applications conform to a set data format that allows interaction with this data in a predictable way.

Blogs and other CGM generate business value for their owners both on private sites that use custom or open source software to manage their communications and for massive public hosts. Because these sites can generate advertising revenue there is a drive by author owners to protect the content on these sites so readers subscribers peers have to visit the site and become exposed to revenue generating advertising in order to participate in observe the communication. Because of this financial disincentive there is no unifying standard for blogs which contains complete data. RSS and Atom feeds allow structured communication of some portion of the communication on sites but are often very incomplete representations of the data available on a given site. Sites also protect their content from being stolen by automated systems with an array of CAPTCHAs Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart email verification mobile phone text message verification password authentication cookie tracking Uniform Resource Locator URL obfuscation timeouts and Internet Protocol IP address tracking.

The result is a massively diverse community that it would be very valuable to understand and interact with which resists aggregation and unified interaction by way of significant technical diversity resistance to complete information data standards and tests that attempt to require one to one human interaction with content.

TruCast is a method for management by way of gathering storing analyzing tracking sorting determining the relevance of visualizing and or responding to all available consumer generated media. Some examples of consumer generated media include web logs or blogs mobile phone blogs or mo blogs forums electronic discussion messages Usenet message boards BBS emulating services product review and discussion web sites online retail sites that support customer comments social networks media repositories and digital libraries. Any web hosted system for the persistent public storage of human commentary is a potential target for this method. The system is comprised of a coordinated software and hardware system designed to perform management collection storage analysis workflow visualization and response tasks upon this media. This system permits a unified interface to manage target and accelerate interactions within this space facilitating public relations marketing advertising consumer outreach political debate and other modes of directed discourse.

Embodiments of the invention are operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Embodiments of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing an embodiment of the invention includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory .

Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Additionally device may have additional features functionality. For example device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also contain communications connection s that allow the device to communicate with other devices. Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media.

Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. All such devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Referring now to an embodiment of the present invention can be described in the context of an exemplary computer network system as illustrated. System includes an electronic client device such as a personal computer or workstation that is linked via a communication medium such as a network e.g. the Internet to an electronic device or system such as a server . The server may further be coupled or otherwise have access to a database and a computer system . Although the embodiment illustrated in includes one server coupled to one client device via the network it should be recognized that embodiments of the invention may be implemented using one or more such client devices coupled to one or more such servers.

In an embodiment each of the client device and server may include all or fewer than all of the features associated with the device illustrated in and discussed with reference to . Client device includes or is otherwise coupled to a computer screen or display . As is well known in the art client device can be used for various purposes including both network and local computing processes.

The client device is linked via the network to server so that computer programs such as for example a browser running on the client device can cooperate in two way communication with server . Server may be coupled to database to retrieve information therefrom and to store information thereto. Database may include a plurality of different tables not shown that can be used by server to enable performance of various aspects of embodiments of the invention. Additionally the server may be coupled to the computer system in a manner allowing the server to delegate certain processing functions to the computer system.

In one embodiment the methods and systems are implemented by a coordinated software and hardware computer system. This system is comprised of a set of dedicated networked servers controlled by TruCast. The servers are installed with a combination of commercially available software custom configurations and custom software. A web server is one of those modules which exposes a web based client side UI to customer web browsers. The UI interacts with the dedicated servers to deliver information to users. The cumulative logical function of these systems results in a system and method referred to as TruCast.

In alternate embodiments the servers could be placed client side could be shared or publicly owned could be located together or separately. The servers could be the aggregation of non dedicated compute resources from a Peer to Peer P2P grid or other distributed network computing environments. The servers could run different commercial applications different configurations with the same or similar cumulative logical function. The client to this system could be run directly from the server could be a client side executable could reside on a mobile phone or mobile media device could be a plug in to other Line of Business applications or management systems. This system could operate in a client less mode where only Application Programming Interface API or eXtensible Markup Language XML or Web Services or other formatted network connections are made directly to the server system. These outside consumers could be installed on the same servers as the custom application components. The custom server side engine applications could be written in different languages using different constructs foundations architectural methodologies storage and processing behaviors while retaining the same or similar cumulative logical function. The UI could be built in different languages using different constructs foundations architectural methodologies storage and processing behaviors while retaining the same or similar cumulative logical function.

In one embodiment the Collection system gathers the majority of information about all CGM content online. This is a weighted prioritized goal because TruCast functions in a weighted prioritized way. This prioritization system is an optionally advantageous element of the collection system called the Collection Manager. The Collection Manager receives input from internal and external sources about what sites have information of value weights that information against a set of pre described and manipulatable co factors to allow tuning and prioritizes the execution of collection against those sites.

In order to collect data from a blog site an automated web scripting and parsing system called a robot is built. An individual robot is a sophisticated coordinated script which informs a software engine of how to navigate parse and return web information. Every web site is comprised of code in one of several popular languages which software applications called web browsers render or convert to a visually appealing web site . A robot similar to a browser interprets site code to render an output. The desired output is not the web site that a browser would create but an XML document with columns of information about the content stored on a given site. Because robots are accessing the code and not the rendered page they have access to markup structures in the code which identify where specific content of interest is stored within the code. Robots use navigation based on Document Object Model DOM trees regular expression pattern matching conditional parsing pre coded transformations mathematical and logical rules tags comments formatting and probability statistics to extract the specific content TruCast in one embodiment uses from raw web site code. Functions which perform this parsing are abstracted and codified in the robot engine which is instructed on specific actions by a specific robot script. In pseudo code a robot designed to gather all of the blog content on a wordpress site would be scripted thusly Load X URL read code until is found return all text until is found. If it is found create row 1 store this text in column A row 1. Find link with the word next in it follow this link. Read code until is found return all text until is found. If it is found create row 2 store this text in column A row 2.

This is a clearly incomplete example as a plurality of robots have the ability to gather and transform a very complete set of knowable information from every website visited including the full body text author s name date of the post permalink to the post title of the post it s position on the page how many comments it has the full information about those comments including author date order body any hyperlinks graphics scripts emoticons or other multimedia files included in a post comment or site. Robots can be designed to gather data from only an individual site or made more general to accommodate variation amongst similar sites. Robots parse the gamut non structured web site code into XML encoded text that meets a predefined data specification of the design. The system in one embodiment collects all posts all comments and all desired content from every page that a robot visits.

Robots are not limited to these methods for content parsing hierarchical temporal memory analysis probability based positive heuristics and structural inference technologies can be used to make robots are capable of collecting information from a wider variety of sites.

Some sites have full data RSS or Atom feeds different than the typically truncated feeds for which a specific set of robots exist. The system also has data vendors who deliver full data feeds in several formats these feeds are converted to the XML data spec by another class of robots. Robots are not limited to web content collection but represent a scriptable system for parsing and transforming incoming and outgoing data based on pre defined rules.

In one embodiment TruCast is designed to determine with a high degree of confidence the conceptual relevance of a given piece of CGM content to a topic or concept space. Topics can be of any breadth War is just as sufficient a topic as 2002 Chevy Silverado Extended Cab Door Hinge Bolt Rust . Topics are abstract identifiers of relevance information about a given piece of CGM content. Each topic can also be understood as a list of keyphrases or keywords with Boolean modifiers. Each topic can contain an unlimited number of keyphrases that work as the first tier of pattern matching to identify content that is relevant to an individual account. Each post discovered by the system and in one embodiment could be relevant to one topic many topics many topics across many accounts or no topics at all.

This method where a post is matched by keyphrase scored by humans and delivered to the outputs of TruCast in one embodiment visualizations reports and response is a basic manual behavior of the system.

The behavior of this tiered system of relevance discovery and analysis changes over time to reflect the maturation of the more sophisticated elements of the system as their contextual requirements are much higher. A keyphrase match is absolute in one embodiment if a post contains an appropriate keyphrase there is no question as to if a match exists. The Conceptual Categorization system is built to apply a series of exemplar based prediction algorithms to determine the conceptual relevance of a given post independent of exact keyphrase match. This makes the system in one embodiment more robust and provides more human relevant information. In an exemplary embodiment a blog post body includes the following text I really enjoy looking out my windows to see the vista out in front of my house. Buena It is so great I wish my computer was so nice it is a little broken edgy eft sadly. EX. 1 

A topic for the Microsoft Corporation looking for the words windows vista computer in order to find online discussion about their new operating system would find this post by keyphrase match despite the fact that the user discusses using edgy eft which is a code name for Ubuntu 6.08 a competitor s operating system. A topic for Milgard Windows and Doors Corporation that is looking for discussion about windows in need of repair would find this same post looking for the keyphrase broken house windows despite the fact that clearly the writer is enjoying looking out of his unbroken windows. The Disney Corporation looking for discussion about their film company Buena Vista would find this post which has nothing to do with them at all. A biologist researcher looking for references to immature red newts would search for Eft only to be sadly disappointed in another result about Ubuntu s software. In all of these cases keyphrase matches have proven insufficient to successfully match relevant content to interested parties. Boolean modifiers help vista NOT Buena but consistently fall far short of expectations and require non intuitive and time consuming research and expertise.

When users score content for relevance in the scoring manager they also may assert the sentiment of the content for each topic that it is relevant from the perspective of their account. Users will mark from their perspective as informed by a set of scoring rules described by user administrators the sentiment reflected about each topic. This information will be stored for later use in a relational database.

These human markup actions serve two purposes. First is to capture this data for direct use within a response system and a series of data visualizations that leverage topic and sentiment information to elucidate non obvious information about the content TruCast collects in one embodiment. This is the manual path for data to flow thru the system in one embodiment. The second use for these posts is that they serve as example data for an exemplar driven automated sentiment analysis system that mirrors the conceptual categorization system.

Similar to the process of categorization the system in one embodiment leverages an exemplar set of documents to perform an automated algorithmic comparison in order to determine the sentiment per topic contained within an individual post. This requires a larger number of examples than categorization analysis 100 per sentiment value per topic due to the four different stored sentiment values good bad neutral and good bad . Due to the significant complexity of sentiment language within human language additional processing is performed upon each document to improve the accuracy of the analysis. A lexicon of sentimental terms is stored within the system and their presence has a weighted impact on the analysis. Negation terms and phrase structures also alter the values associated with sentimental terms. A stop words list eliminates connective terms object nouns and other non sentimental terms within the text reducing the noise the comparison has to filter thru. Sentence detection uses linguistic analysis to subdivide posts into smaller sections for individual analysis. A series of algorithms are compared for accuracy and performance on a per topic basis to allow the performance of the analysis system to be tuned to each topic.

Both of these processes work upon the post ingestion content directing automatically analyzed documents into the remainder of the system workflow. This process reacts to the number of exemplar documents that are available. If incoming content is keyphrase relevant to a specific topic a determination is made if sufficient exemplar documents have been gathered by the system from users. If enough exemplary documents are not available that post is delivered to the scoring queue which feeds content to the scoring manager interface. If some documents are present as exemplars the system will attempt automated categorization and sentiment analysis but still deliver posts to the scoring manager. This creates a pair of analysis results one from the computer and one from the user. These are compared and when a sufficient alignment agreement frequency is reached the system starts delivering auto analyzed content directly to the reporting and response systems saving human effort.

This is a sliding ratio from 100 being delivered to the UI and 0 being auto analyzed to only 1 10 being delivered to the UI and 100 being auto analyzed. Once the ratio of content being reviewed by human scorers reaches 10 and accurate performance of the automated analysis is maintained mature operation of the automated systems has been achieved. This is the most efficient operation of the system in one embodiment.

The system utilizes an aging and auditing system to ensure that the oldest human scored posts are ejected from the exemplar set and replaced by new human scored posts over time. The system also performs internal cluster analysis and ejects significant outliers from the system. Both of these processes are tunable by administrative control panels. The result of this aging and auditing should be that as the vernacular word usage and issues discussed internal to a given topic change over time exemplar documents continue to reflect that change and accurately map relevance.

The system in one embodiment of databases which receive topic relevant analyzed content is connected to a series of web based visualizations to allow users of the UI to understand valuable information about the discussions captured by the system in one embodiment. Visualizations are shown in .

The response manager is a system to convert into a manageable scalable business process the task of responding to CGM content by way of comments. All CGM systems that allow interactivity 90 have a web based system for allowing readers of content to respond by way of a comment note or other stored message. This often requires that users register themselves on the site by providing a username password and other personal details. Sometimes this requires providing an e mail address to which an activation link is sent or an instant messenger account which is sent a password. This isn t too difficult for casual users to maintain especially if they only interact with a few sites. Professional users however often have to interact with thousands of different sites. The system in one embodiment aims to reduce this workload for responders by automating the registration and response process.

In one embodiment the TruCast UI system facilitates a workflow for many users to interact in a coordinated managed way with CGM content. Once a post as been successfully analyzed by either a user in the scoring manager or the automated analysis systems it becomes available within the response manager. This is a UI system for a user to write a comment in response to relevant posts. The UI two halves one which shows information about the post being responded to author date body text and other comments from within the thread as well as stats about the author and site responsible for the content. and the second that contains the new response the user is writing. The system provides an interface called the response vault for managers to pre write message components fragments of text names stats and pieces of argument that they d like responders to focus on. These snippets can be copied into the response body during authoring. Once a user is done writing a response the can click a send button which delivers the newly written response to the relational database.

This system utilizes a similar engine and scripting methodology as the collection system. Registration and Response robots are scripted automations which interpret the code of CGM content pages web pages pop3 or web based e mail systems and other data structures and perform pre determined probabilistic or rule driven interactions with those structures. By interpreting page code and scripted instructions they can imitate the actions of human users of these structures by executing on screen navigation functions inserting data gathering data and reporting success or failure. An example registration robot would be given as a data input the registration information for an individual user of the system in one embodiment and given the URL to a site that the user wishes to register on. The robot would visit the site navigate by markers pre identified in the page code to the appropriate form locations to insert this information confirm it s insertion and report success as well as any output information from the site. An example response robot would accept as input the registration information for a given user of the system in one embodiment the blog response they ve written and the URL to the site that the user wishes to respond to. The robot would load the site into memory navigate the page by way of hyperlinks or pre determined probabilistic or rule driven information examine the page source code to discover the appropriate form fields to insert this input data into do so and report success. Other embodiments of this solution could include purpose built scripts that perform the same assignment and scripted interaction with CGM sites to perform registration and response tasks. Smaller scale systems would have users perform the manual field entry and navigation tasks but captures these interactions for conversation involvement identification and maintenance by the analysis systems.

Once the system in one embodiment receives a response record from the response manager it determines which blog site contains the original message and the link to the response page for that site and message. If the system in one embodiment has never written a response to that site before the record is delivered to the response interactor UI which is run by company employees. This UI allows an employee to visit the appropriate site navigate to the appropriate fields and assign the information from the record to fields on the site that will cause the site to record a response. This action is recorded and converted into a script for later re use. If TruCast has already written a response to a given site this script will be used eliminating the need for repeated human interaction.

This system utilizes a similar engine and scripting methodology as the collection system. Other embodiments of this solution could include purpose built scripts that perform the same assignment and scripted interaction with CGM sites to perform registration and response tasks. Smaller scale systems would have users perform the manual field entry and navigation tasks but captures these interactions for conversation involvement identification and maintenance by the analysis systems.

There are several sophisticated systems for preventing automated interaction with registration and response forms on CGM sites. Because TruCast is engine and script driven and each transaction happens by way of a modular execution system the system can tie the process to outside support modules to defeat these automation prevention systems. The response automation system has a complete pop3 e mail interaction system which can generate e mail addresses for use in registration check those addresses for incoming mail and navigate the mail content as easily as more typical web content. The response automation system uses advanced OCR processing along with human tuning to defeat CAPTCHA protections. The system has access to jabber protocol interactions to create automated IM accounts and interact by SMS with mobile phone systems. TruCast also stores a significant body of information in contact card format about responders so more complex registration questions can be correctly answered.

The response system within TruCast delivers posts to blog sites which are the target for the collection system. As the system in one embodiment collects content it matches incoming content to evaluate if that content belongs to a thread that the system has interacted with. When the system discovers posts that were written after a response that TruCast wrote it is returned to the queue of posts assigned to the user who wrote the response with a maximum priority. This way a conversation can be facilitated. The system also allows review of conversations by way of an Audit Panel which gives a timeline of interaction for a conversation between a blogger and a TruCast user.

Given the volatility of the CGM space the value it represents and the danger of negative publicity for any companies or other interested parties who choose to interact by way of responding by comment it is optionally advantageous to maintain the appearance of correct attribution. The users are responsible for the content they generate. Because of the sophisticated analysis tools available for CGM site owners to evaluate the source of incoming comments it s optionally advantageous that the system in one embodiment correctly portrays correct attribution. While using the TruCast system to automate response delivery to blog sites correct attribution of content origination is retained.

Indicators of origination include 1 E mail address used in registration response process 2 Owner of e mail address domain s as reported by the WHOIS information 3 Receipt of e mail sent to this address by the correct customer to the system in one embodiment 4 IP Address used in the response registration process 5 Reverse DNS lookup on the IP Address used in the response registration process and the resultant WHOIS information and or 6 Internal consistency of blog user registration information.

Any given customer or user will direct a domain name that s appropriate for blog post response connect this domain and its MX record to web accessible server. This server should make available the e mail addresses hosted on it via a pop3 connection. This resolves issues 1 and 2 by placing ownership of the domain from which the e mails for registration are generated into the hands of the users.

A forwarding system between e mail addresses created by a robot and the e mail address listed in the User Manager exists. Forwarding messages from this TruCast controlled site to the customer s e mail ensures that customers receive any messages from bloggers that reply by e mail. This resolves issue 3.

The Response Automation tool receives port from the IP address used for the e mail server installation and the server hosts the Response Automation Engine for use in executing the scripting that is created to perform automated response. This resolves issues 4 and 5 by aligning the IP source of the comments with the e mail source of the comments.

The tool collects significantly more information about responders than is typically necessary. This includes obscure information like birth date favorite car mother s maiden name favorite popsicle flavor user picture etc to ensure that registrations are complete feature rich and transparent. The manual response app and robots accept this data in the response and registration steps. This resolves issue 6.

If customers or other users desire misattribution of message source IP and e mail anonymization features can be enabled. This obfuscates the source of output messages by way of a rotating IP proxy environment which leverages P2P and onion topologies for maximum opacity.

It is valuable to keep blog focused workers on message saying appropriate things making persuasive arguments and being considerate participants in the community. In order to facilitate this the system in one embodiment has a set of authorization features. Administrators have access to a per user toggle which forces the posts that users write to be delivered to a review queue instead of the response automation system when they press the send button. This queue is accessible by administrators to allow review editing or rejection before messages are submitted.

Administrators can also create and manipulate sorting rules which prioritize content within user scoring and response queues based on topic site engine author and date information. This forces users to work on appropriate content and allows administrators to segment scoring and responding tasks to SME s who have the most context for a given topic site engine or author.

Users in the system in one embodiment are members of accounts and afforded permissions within the system based on the role assigned to them by administrative users on a per account basis. Roles are pre bound permission sets. Administrators can create edit and delete everything within the system except accounts. Group administrators who have access to multiple accounts can create accounts and can edit and delete accounts that they ve created or been given access to. System administrators can add edit and delete all accounts so this permission role is reserved for internal support use only. Users within the system in one embodiment are intended to perform the majority of the scoring and responding work and as such have only access to the scoring manager response manager and their own user manager to review their own performance. Group users can do these tasks for multiple assigned accounts. Viewers within the system in one embodiment have read only access to all UI controls. Group Viewers can review multiple accounts. Accounts as a whole can be enabled or disabled which blocks users from accessing the system if their account is disabled and stops any account specific collection analysis or processing tasks.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

