---

title: Spacecraft hardware tracker
abstract: A GPS tracker is disposed on launch hardware that separates from a spacecraft launch vehicle during ascent to orbit with the launch hardware having a suborbital trajectory from launch to impact while being tracked so as to track the launch hardware during suborbital flight, such as for tracking separated fuel stages, external tanks, external boosters, and payload fairings that return to earth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07557753&OS=07557753&RS=07557753
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 07557753
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070430
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract No. FA8802 04 C 0001 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates to the field of tracking systems. More particularly the present invention relates to tracking systems for tracking the trajectory of spent fuel stages of launch spacecraft.

Precise information on the impact location of spacecraft launch hardware is required to calibrate preflight hazard predictions. Launch hardware include nonessential orbital spacecraft hardware such as nose fairings and fuel stages that are separated from the spacecraft and do not reach orbit but return to earth along a hardware trajectory. Launch hardware impact data is required to recover expended launch hardware or test equipment. Ground based sensors are limited in ability to obtain the impact location for hardware that impact outside of monitoring ranges. At present launch vehicles collect data and maintain communications with ground stations for the portion of the flight where the launch vehicles are in view of the stations. Launch hardware is tracked during ascent by ground based tracking systems. Communications and tracking on suborbital stages and payload fairings ends when the expended fuel stage or fairing has completed the launch mission when the launch hardware is released from the launching vehicle and passes out of the view of ground based tracking systems. Impact locations for expended launch hardware continue to be of interest for safety reasons and for potential reuse of the expended hardware.

Prior to launch estimates are made as to where the expended hardware will land. Safety regulations specify that this hardware must land in a safe area away from land masses or critical structures such as oil drilling platforms. The launch trajectory is adjusted to assure that safety requirements are met. Because the expended launch hardware is not tracked to impact no data is available to verify that the hardware actually impacts in the predicted impact area. A system for returning information on the precise location of impact of a statistically significant number of expended stages and hardware is desired.

In addition a cost effective technique for acquiring aerodynamic heating rates on a large number of ascending launch vehicles are required to verify and possibly modify the thresholds for release of the launch hardware such as the fairings that protect payloads from atmospheric influences during launch. Imprecise estimations and the lack of precise launch data results in higher altitude of launch hardware and fairing releases thereby increasing the mass of payloads carried to orbit by as much as 5 to 10 .

Tracking systems have been developed for commercial trucks trains and other modes of transportation. These systems collect GPS data on the vehicular location and return tracking information via satellite to a collection point. These systems typically draw power and data from the host vehicle. The weight and expense of existing tracking systems and services from a host increases the cost for launch systems rendering tracking systems expensive and impractical for inclusion on many launch vehicles. Electrical systems are not normally disposed on separated fuel stages which disadvantageously create potentials for accidental fuel leakage and explosions and hence are not placed on fuel stages. These and other disadvantages are solved or reduced using the invention.

Another object of the invention is to provide a tracker for tracking launch hardware that does not reach orbit.

Yet another object of the invention is to provide a system for tracking launch hardware that does not reach orbit using GPS positioning.

Still another object of the invention is to provide a tracker attached to launch hardware for tracking the launch hardware during suborbital flight.

The invention is directed to a tracker attached to launch hardware for tracking suborbital launch hardware during flight that may extend from launch to impact. The launch hardware includes for example fairings and spent fuel stages. Fuel stages include in line fuel stages external fuel tanks and external solid rocket boosters. A large number of different launch vehicles can be equipped with lightweight autonomous tracking devices that require only attachment but no other services from a launch vehicle.

The tracker preferably has a power supply GPS receiver data collection recorder and communications transmitter so as to be able to track launch hardware from launch to impact. These and other advantages will become more apparent from the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment.

An embodiment of the invention is described with reference to the figures using reference designations as shown in the figures. Referring to a launch vehicle is launched in view of several GPS satellites. A Lunch hardware tracker is attached to a payload fairing. The launch hardware tracker communicates tracking information to a communication satellite that relays the tracking signals to a ground station. The launch hardware has a suborbital flight path from time of launch to time of separation to time of impact on the earth.

Referring to the launch hardware tracker is a small lightweight autonomous package that attaches to a launch vehicle stage payload fairing or other launch hardware such as a spent fuel stage. The tracker includes a battery and requires no electrical power or other services from the host launch vehicle. The launch hardware tracker collects GPS signals and sensor data during launch and transmits tracking signals to the communications satellites. The tracker senses data and communicates tracking signals data before and after the launch hardware separates from the launch vehicle. Data is transmitted by a commercially available satellite communications link to a data collection terminal at a remote ground location.

The tracker contains a power supply such as batteries necessary electronics that control the communications and store and process incoming data from sensors including an internal sensor and an external sensor. The tracker receives GPS signals using a modem compatible with the GPS system and sends data via a modem compatible with the commercial communications system. The tracker includes an antenna for receiving GPS signals from GPS satellites in view and communicating with the communication satellites. There can be a plurality of antenna such as a first antenna and a second antenna for improving GPS signal reception and tracking signal transmission. The external sensors include temperature and heating rate sensors that communicate to the tracker through wired or wireless technology not shown. The tracker may be mounted either on internal struts of the launch hardware for improved environmental protection or to an external surface. The antenna is normally located on the external surface but may be mounted internally when communications through the surface material enables acceptable GPS reception and tracking signal transmission.

The invention is directed to a tracker for tracking separated launch hardware during a suborbital flight of the launch hardware. The tracker includes a GPS receiver and modem for communicating flight path data to a communications satellite for tracking of the launch hardware. The tracker may further include sensors for sensing environmental conditions of the launch hardware. Those skilled in the art can make enhancements improvements and modifications to the invention and these enhancements improvements and modifications may nonetheless fall within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

