---

title: Method and system for collecting information about a user's media collections from multiple login points
abstract: A system and method for collecting information about a user's media collections at a central location from multiple login points and/or multiple devices owned by the user. The user establishes a user account at a central server. A client application may be downloaded to the user's device for establishing a connection to the central server. Subsequently, each time the user logs in to the central server, the central server receives a unique machine identifier (MID) for the connected and currently in-use user device. The central server receives information about the user's media collection from the user device and stores that media collection by its MID under the user's individual account. In this manner, the central server obtains and stores information about all the user's media collections owned by user devices connected and in-use and previously connected to the central server rather than only having knowledge of the media collection stored on the currently in-use user device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08307092&OS=08307092&RS=08307092
owner: Napo Enterprises, LLC
number: 08307092
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070221
---
The present invention relates to dynamically collecting information about a user s media collections from multiple or disparate login points. Enhanced media related services can be performed with a more complete knowledge of the user s media collections rather than just a single media collection from a single login point.

In recent years there has been an enormous increase in the amount of digital media such as music and video available online. Services such as Apple s iTunes for example enable users to legally purchase and download music. Other services such as Yahoo Music Unlimited and RealNetwork s Rhapsody provide access to millions of songs for a monthly subscription fee. These downloading and subscription based services are provided by systems that are accessible by computing devices over the Internet. As a result music and video content have become much more accessible to listeners and viewers from any location having Internet connectivity worldwide.

In today s environment users often own or use multiple computing devices in their everyday life. Users access their computing devices to download or access media based content from media systems and related servers. These computing devices can include but are not limited to home computers laptop computers computers at work handheld computers and devices including personal digital assistants PDAs and portable media players PMP and wireless devices including cellular phones. In this regard media systems provide for user accounts. This allows a user to login to the media system to access their account from any of the user s devices using a single user id and login. The ability of the user to access media systems from multiple devices has further increased the accessibility of digital media. A user account not only provides an enhancement to the user being able to access their account to obtain media from multiple devices and locations but also provides enhanced revenues for downloading and subscription based services. The more accessible the digital media the more likely users are to download or access content.

However because a user often owns or uses more than one computing device to login to a media system each of the user s devices may contain different media content. For example a home computer may contain digital media content from the user s home collection as well as certain content downloaded from a media server. The user s wireless mobile device may contain digital media accessed from a subscription based service as well as some or all of the user s home collection. When the user logs in to the media system only the user s media collection stored on the computing device being used by the user to login at that time is seen by the media system for providing various user features.

For example a media system may collect statistics and recommend media content to a user based on previously downloaded content or attributes of the user s media collection. Similarly recommendations may come from peer devices associated with the user s prior established friends or buddy list like that described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 484 130 entitled P2P NETWORK FOR PROVIDING REAL TIME MEDIA RECOMMENDATIONS filed on Jul. 11 2006 and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. If the media recommendation is already present in the user s media collection the recommendation may be filtered or the system may be configured to indicate to the user that the recommendation is already in their media collection. A media system may provide other services based on knowledge of the user s media collection.

However if only the media collection stored on the currently in use user device can be accessed or seen by a media system the media system may only provide recommendations based on a partial list of the user s entire media collection. The user s actual media collection may include additional content stored on another of the user s devices. For example a media recommendation may not be properly filtered if the media system does not have knowledge that the recommendation is already stored on another of the user s devices. As such there is a need for a system and method to gather knowledge of the user s media collections stored on each of the user s computing devices that login to a central computing system or media server so that media collection based services can be provided with a more accurate picture of the user s owned media collections over multiple login points or computing devices.

The present invention is a system and method for collecting and storing information at a central location or server about a user s various media collections from multiple login points and user devices. A central server receives information about the user s media collection stored on a particular user device when the user logs in to the central server under an established user account. In this manner a central server can obtain knowledge of all the user s media collections as the user logs in to the central server for each of the user s computing devices. This is opposed to the central server only having knowledge of the media collection for the user s connected and currently in use device. The user can access the central server to see all of their media collection stored over all of their various computing devices wherein each device may own different or overlapping media collections.

The user s media collections may be stored over different user devices representing multiple login points such as a home computer work computer laptop computer and wireless PMP device for example. In order for the user to register their various media collections the user first establishes a user account having an associated user id and password at the central server. A client application is downloaded to the user device to establish a web based application programming interface API connection between the user device and the central server. Subsequently each time the user logs in to a central server using the client application from one of their various user devices the central server receives a unique machine identifier MID of the particular user device connected and in use. The central server then receives information about the user s media collection owned by the connected and in use device. The central server stores the media collection owned by the connected and in use user device under its MID under the user s account.

In this manner the central server can gather knowledge of all of the user s media collections stored over multiple of the user s devices at one location. The central server can send information to the client application to allow the user to see all of the media collections stored on the user s various disparate computing devices from a single session established from only one of the user s login points.

Recommendations for other media content provided to a user can now be made based on a more complete knowledge of the user s media collection rather than only the media collection stored on the user s in use devices. The user can determine and or be informed by the central server if the user already owns a particular media content in the user s collections before requesting a new download from the central server. The central server can also inform the user via the client application of any redundancy between the user s media collections on the various user devices or login points.

In one embodiment the client application may allow the user to give a human readable name to each of his or her user devices that are registered with the central server. The central server can also allow multiple and persistent sessions from the same user from different user devices or login points for accessing media content based services from the central server. Primary and secondary sessions can be established and controlled to automatically control where requested content is downloaded.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate the scope of the present invention and realize additional aspects thereof after reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments in association with the accompanying drawing figures.

The embodiments set forth below represent the necessary information to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and illustrate the best mode of practicing the invention. Upon reading the following description in light of the accompanying drawing figures those skilled in the art will understand the concepts of the invention and will recognize applications of these concepts not particularly addressed herein. It should be understood that these concepts and applications fall within the scope of the disclosure and the accompanying claims.

The present invention is a system and method for collecting and storing information at a central location or server about a user s various media collections from multiple login points and user devices. A central server receives information about the user s media collection stored on a particular user device when the user logs in to the central server under an established user account. In this manner a central server can obtain knowledge of all the user s media collections as the user logs in to the central server for each of the user s computing devices. This is opposed to the central server only having knowledge of the media collection for the user s connected and currently in use device. The user can access the central server to see all of their media collection stored over all of their various computing devices wherein each device may own different or overlapping media collections.

The user s media collections may be stored over different user devices representing multiple login points such as a home computer work computer laptop computer and wireless PMP device for example. In order for the user to register their various media collections the user first establishes a user account having an associated user id and password at the central server. A client application is downloaded to the user device to establish a web based application programming interface API connection between the user device and the central server. Subsequently each time the user logs in to a central server using the client application from one of their various user devices the central server receives a unique machine identifier MID of the particular user device connected and in use. The central server then receives information about the user s media collection owned by the connected and in use device. The central server stores the media collection owned by the connected and in use user device under its MID under the user s account. The term owned in this context means owned stored leased or accessible by or from the user device.

In this manner the central server can gather knowledge of all of the user s media collections stored over multiple of the user s devices at one location. The central server can send information to the client application to allow the user to see all of the media collections stored on the user s various disparate computing devices from a single session established from only one of the user s login points.

The central server is comprised of several components to facilitate user connections and provide media related services to the user. These components are comprised of a web component a market component and a server component . The central server also contains a database that stores data necessary to support the components and to store user base accounts for users that have registered and established accounts to use the services provided by the central server .

Turning to the central server components the web component provides users access to registration services so that users can create the user base account and have permission to access services provided by the central server . The web component also provides the client application downloading functionality to devices that interface with the central server . The client application software is executed on the user s computing devices to login access and receive the various media based services from the central server . The web component contains an HTTP component that provides Internet communication protocol support for communication to users registration support and client application downloading via an Internet based network .

The market component includes a web services application program interface API to provide downloadable media content to users. The downloaded content may include songs or video and may be of any format type desired including but not limited to MP3. The server component also contains a web services API to communicate with external devices over the network . The server component contains data models and recommendation logic that controls the overall services provided by the central server such as providing media content recommendations to users based on the user s preferences and or media collection as will be described in more detail below.

The central server is also able to communicate with subscription services for accessing media content for downloading. Some media content requested may not be stored locally in the central server s database but rather obtained from subscription services only when needed or on demand. Further the central server can communicate over the network with content identification systems to provide identifying and other characteristic information about media content such as information regarding artists song titles genre etc. in the example of song content in particular. The allows the central server to provide users with user friendly information about media content as part of the services provided by the central server . The identification systems may be coupled with or contain content descriptors that are compared media content to identify and provide information regarding the media content. For an example of songs in particular the descriptors may include known fingerprints and or Global Unique IDs GUIDs to identify songs and obtain metadata containing information about the songs such as title artist genre etc. A uniform resource locator URL may be included to identify location s for the descriptor information.

The central server is adapted to communicate and connect with multiple user devices to provide services to an end user. The user devices may be any type of computing device that is capable of performing communications over the network to reach the central server . Examples of user devices include but are not limited to home computers B computers at work C laptop computers D wireless PMP devices E hand held computer devices such as personal digital assistants PDA with remote communication capabilities and the like. A web browser may be included within each user device to provide the user an interface for Internet based communications including those with the central server . The user devices may also contain an audio video A V player that allows the user to play back any media content stored locally at the user device or accessed remotely such as from the central server .

Each user device that desires to access and receive the services of the central server first establishes a user base account using a standard web browser or other standard Internet communication interface. This allows the user device to download a client application onto the user device using the web component services of the central server to provide a customized software interface to the central server . After the client application is downloaded onto a user device from the central server the user device uses a web services API connection to communicate with the market and server components of the central server to receive media content based services via the user device .

According to the invention each user device includes some form of a machine identifier MID that is unique to each user device . The MID may be a MAC address a serial number or an IP address for example. This allows the central server to store information about all of the user s media content spread over each the user s user devices or login points according to individual MIDs since some or all of the user devices contain different media content . When the user device establishes a session with the central server using the client application the MID and session information or ID is transmitted to the central server . By providing the MID of the user device when establishing a connection to the central server allows the central server to distinguish interaction and services for the user based on the particular user device . For example the user may have multiple user devices that he or she desires to download the client application to and access the services of the central server . The client application is programmed to extract the MID from the user device as part of establishing a connection and session with the central server when the user activates the client application .

Next the central server receives a user session establishment request from the user device using the downloaded client application step . The session establishment request includes the user id and password to access the correct user base account . The session establishment request also includes the MID of the user device making the connection request since the user id and password may be used to access the central server from any number of different user devices or login points. Thereafter the central server establishes a session with the user device which may be one of many user devices owned by a particular user step . If it is the first time that the particular user device has requested a session establishment for a particular user based on the MID decision the central server creates a new entry for the MID in the user s base account in the database step . This is so the information about the user s media content or collection owned by the user device can be stored in the database under a particular MID under the user s base account . This allows the central server to uniquely distinguish information about the user s media collections based on the MID of the user device .

Whether the user device is establishing a session with the central server for the first time or not the central server after the connection and session are established receives information about the media content owned by the user device step . Content identification may be optionally performed using the content identification server like that described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 392 051 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ARCHIVING A MEDIA COLLECTION filed Mar. 29 2006 incorporated herein by references in its entirety. The central server then stores the information necessary to identify the media content e.g. GUIDs metadata etc. in the user s base account in the database under the MID of the user device step . At this point the central server has information about the user s media content or collection stored on the user device . If the user logs in to the central server from each of its user devices the central server will collect and store information about each of the user s media content on each of its user devices according to the device s MID . This allows the central server to provide media related services to the user with a more complete knowledge of the user s owned media content .

Information about the user s media collections obtained by the central server from each unique user device as determined by their MID are stored in the collection record associated with the user base account . Each unique user device will have its own collection record B C D E for each user device in which the central server has established a connection. In this manner the central server can interrogate the collection record to determine the media content owned by the user across the user s multiple user devices that are currently connected or have previously established a connection with the central server . Collection information is collected for each of the user devices and stored separately within the collection record .

Other information specific to a user may be stored within the user base account on the central server . For example the play history of the media content by the user the user s subscription accounts a friends list group lists and profile information . The profile information includes statistics about the user s media collection such as artist distribution genre distribution and release year distribution . Content descriptors are also stored in the database to identify media selections displayed to the user including but not limited to the media in the user s media collections . Content descriptors may be obtained over the network from the content identification system previously described above in .

Subscription adapters contain information that allow the central server to quickly determine if a particular subscription service offers a particular media selection or request. If not the central server can move on to another subscription service for the same inquiry. The subscription adapters include GUIDs of media content accessible from the subscription services and content server information about how to access content servers for the subscription servers that house content. The database also contains network information which includes protocol adapters and connection lists to allow the central server to communicate using different protocols to establish different types of connections with user devices .

Next the central server establishes the user base account and assigns the user id and password to the account step . This is so that the next time the user logs in to the central server to access the user base account the central server can verify the user id and password provided for necessary permission to access the user base account for security purposes. The central server then downloads a pop up prompt to the user device asking if the user wants to download the client application step . The client application is an application specifically designed to establish a session with the central server for access to the central server media services. If the user chooses to download the client application the user device sends a download request to the central server step and the central server downloads the client application to the user device . The next time the user desires to access the central server from the user device the user initiates the client application to establish a connection with the central server .

An example of a registration web page referenced in the flow diagram of that may be employed to allow a user to request establishment of a user base account is illustrated in . Note that the registration web page is a standard web page accessible by a standard browser since the client application has not yet been downloaded to the user device . The client application is downloaded after the user has established a user base account .

The web page may contain a banner typically comprising the brand name or marketed under name of the central server or its service. The banner may include hyperlinks to allow the user to access additional information or services relating to registration as shown. The web page may include registration instructions . Section of the web page includes fields for user information necessary to establish a user base account . Section of the web page is an optional code to prevent automated registrations. A code must be entered in a code field manually to continue with successful registration. The code is located below and only readable by human. A question link is provided in the event the user has questions about the code entering process.

Section of the web page includes a security question selectable by the user via a security question drop down menu to be answered by the user in case the user forgets his or her password. The central server will store the security question and the answer as a method of verifying a user in lieu of a password and or to provide a user a password when forgotten or lost. Section of the web page contains the Terms Of Use section which includes terms and conditions that are viewable by the user using a scroll bar . A consent statement is provided to provide a legally binding contract when the user clicks the I Agree link to initiate the account establishment request to the central server . If the user does not agree to the terms and conditions the user may select the I Do Not Agree link in which case an account establishment request will not be made to the central server . The I Do Not Agree link is necessary in most jurisdictions to create legally binding click wrap agreement.

At this point in the exemplary embodiment the user has requested establishment of a user base account on the central server . If the request was proper the central server establishes the user base account under a user id and password. The user is allowed to download the client application to their user device . Next when the user desires to log in to the central server to receive media related services and to register the media content owned by the user device the user initiates the client application .

In this regard a communication flow diagram illustrating communication between the user device and the central server when the client application is initiated is illustrated in . First the user initiates the client application on the user device step . The client application prompts the user to provide their user id and password for account access step . Next the client application sends a user session establishment request to the central server which includes the user id the password and the MID step . The central server establishes a connection and starts a new session for the user device according to the MID step . If the MID is new for the user s base account i.e. the first time a session request is made from a particular user device the central server creates a new collection record under the collection record in the user s base account under the new MID so that content owned by the connected user device can be obtained and stored in the database step .

Continuing to the central server sends a message to the user device to allow the user to provide a human readable name for the user device step . This is so a user device will appear in the client application by a user friendly human readable name or nomenclature selected by the user rather than an obscure MID . If the user device has already been named the user may override the previous name. If a human readable name is provided it is sent back to the central server for storage in association with the MID under the user s base account step . At this point the client application collects the information about the media content owned by the connected user device and sends this information to the central server step for storage in the collection record step . This information may include GUIDs fingerprints metadata or the like or any combination thereof. This is so the central server will have knowledge of the user s media collections in one location to provide media based services to the user based on the user s various media collections stored over multiple user devices or login points. The central server may also identify redundant media content with the other of the user s devices in the collection record step and inform the user of the redundant items step .

The content server will then send information about the media content stored on the user devices to populate the client application step . The user will be able to access and see all of their media content stored on all of their user devices that are currently connected or have been previously registered through the client application . If the user desires to download a particular media item or selection a request is made to the central server step . The request may include the MID where the selection is stored if the user selects content that is stored on one of the user s devices .

The content server can next check the user base account and the collection records to determine if the selected content is already owned by the user on one of their user devices step . If so the content server can indicate whether the content requested is already owned by the user and or provide a scoring update to the client application based on whether the content is already owned step . As described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 484 130 entitled P2P NETWORK FOR PROVIDING REAL TIME MEDIA RECOMMENDATIONS previously referenced above the client application may include a scoring system that is indicative of the user s preference of the content for a particular user based on the user s preferences and or whether the user already owns the content.

The selected content can next be requested to be downloaded by the user from the central server step or optionally directly from a subscription service or peer to peer connection with another device. Note that recommendations or information identifying media already in the user s collection available from subscription services may include URL or other reference enabling downloads from the subscription service . In response to a central server request the central server can obtain the content request from a subscription service s the database if stored therein or another of the user s devices if a connection is or can be established with such other user device step . The central server can then provide the content requested step either directly or by providing information to the user device to allow it to establish a direct peer to peer connection with another machine to download the content requested.

Once the user desires to end the current session the user device may send an end session request or message to the central server step to cause the central server to end the session and terminate the connection step . Alternatively the central server may end the session step on its own if it detects a dropped connection by the user device .

The content populated by the central server and sent to the client application is listed in a content table . The content table consists of numerous columns that provide key information about the content to the user . A title column provides the title of the content. A time column provides the length or duration of the content when played. An artist column provides the artist of the content. A score column provides a score in terms of importance to the user according to their user preference stored as a result of the registration process and or determined by the central server based on the owned media content on the user s devices . A genre column a year column a received column and a played column provides the genre type the year of release the date and time of receipt and the date and time of the last play of the content.

A source column provides the source or location of the content. Note that the source may be one of the user s devices i.e. Local Home device currently connected is local device Work Laptop or PMP . With the present invention the central server is able to provide the client application with the particular user device where the content is stored if the user owns the content on one of its user devices . Lastly a recommender column contains a user id or name of the person or friend that recommended the content to the user . The user can establish a list of friends that are able to provide recommendations as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 484 130 entitled P2P NETWORK FOR PROVIDING REAL TIME MEDIA RECOMMENDATIONS previously referenced above. The user is able to navigate the content table by point and click to play content download content and request content from the central server and or other sources.

The central server also provides for the ability of multiple user devices or login points to establish multiple sessions for the same user at the same time. This may be desirable if the user wants to keep a persistent connection with one of its user devices with the central server but also wants to establish a separate session with another of its user devices to request and receive media related services provided by the central server . For example a work computer C may have a persistent connection with the central server but the user may go home and desire to establish a connection with the central server using the home computer B. The central server manages these connections and determines which session is the primary session based on certain rules. Certain functions of the central server may depend on distinguishing between primary or first and secondary sessions established and active at the same time. For example recommendations made to the user may be made to the session designated as the primary session only. In this regard an example of a multiple user device establishment and connection session is illustrated in the flow diagram of .

In the example of a first session establishment request is made from a first user device B step . The central server establishes the session with the first user device B as previously discussed step . Because the user device A is the only device connected to the central server that is associated with the user at that time this session is designated by the central server as the primary session step . The user next causes a second of its user devices N to establish a separate connection and session with the central server while the first or primary session is still active step . The content server again establishes a session with the second user device N but designates this session as a secondary session since a first or primary session is still established step . In this example the first user device B sends an end session request to the central server step . The content server will automatically change the designation of the secondary session to the primary session since the previous primary session is no longer active step . Recommendations may be generated or obtained by the central server step and downloaded to the user device designated as the primary session step which in the example is the second user device N step .

As previously discussed the content server may make recommendations for content to a user . illustrates a flow chart on how recommendations for content may be made to the user and how the present invention s ability for the central server to have knowledge of the user s media content across multiple user devices or login points can play a role in an improved media recommendation process.

The central server can determine recommendations for the user based on the user base account the user preferences receipt of recommendations based on the user s friends media collections or the user s media content stored in the collection records step . Now with the enhancement provided by the present invention the content server can determine if a media recommendation is already owned by the user i.e. owned in the user s collection database as stored in the database at the central server decision . If so the central server may filter the recommendation and not deliver it to the user via the client application since the user already owns the recommendation step . Or the central server may be configured to inform the user of the recommendation but that it is already owned by the user step . Even further the central server may be configured to ignore the fact that the recommendation is already owned by the user and make the recommendation to the user without informing the user of the already owned status step . These settings may be made according to central server programming or based on the user s preferences selected by the user during the registration process.

If the user decides to download the recommendation if informed decision the central server may perform some optional optimization checking to ensure that the bandwidth and or storage capacity of the user device associated with the user s primary session is sufficient to efficiently obtain the download decision . If so or optional decision is not performed the recommendation is downloaded to the user device associated with the primary session step . If the optional decision is performed and if the storage and or bandwidth of the user device associated with the primary session is not sufficient the central server has the option to download the recommendation to a user device associated with a secondary session step if a secondary session is active decision . If not the central server can store and maintain the recommendation locally in database until a secondary session is available step .

Those skilled in the art will recognize improvements and modifications to the preferred embodiments of the present invention. All such improvements and modifications are considered within the scope of the concepts disclosed herein and the claims that follow.

