---

title: Oil consumption monitoring for aircraft engine
abstract: A system and method for accurately calculating the oil quantity and oil consumption rate of an aircraft engine detects the level of oil in an oil tank, calculates the oil quantity in the oil tank by compensating for the acceleration of the aircraft, as well as changes in the pitch, yaw and roll of the aircraft. The oil consumption rate of the aircraft is also calculated by calculating the oil quantity at different times, and dividing the difference in oil quantity by the difference in times. The percentage change in oil consumption of the aircraft engine is also calculated. The oil quantity and oil consumption rate can be reported during and after the aircraft's flight.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08103462&OS=08103462&RS=08103462
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08103462
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071025
---
The U.S. Government may have certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. N00019 02 C 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

Automatic oil consumption monitoring is desirable for aircraft engines so that the status of oil consumption before during and after an aircraft flight can be monitored. Traditionally oil consumption by aircraft engines has been monitored using an Oil Level Sensor OLS to estimate the level of oil remaining in the oil tank. This method of monitoring oil consumption is problematic because during an aircraft flight the oil level inside of the oil tank can vary significantly due to changes in acceleration and orientation of the aircraft. Thus simply monitoring the oil level in the oil tank may not be an accurate measurement of oil consumption by the aircraft engine. In some cases inaccurate measurement of oil consumption and oil level can result in a false alarm to a pilot or maintenance person by incorrectly indicating an oil leak during a flight resulting in an unnecessary abort of the mission.

Therefore there is a need for a more accurate method to estimate the amount of oil in the oil tank of an aircraft while in the air and thereby more accurately determine the oil consumption of the aircraft engine.

The invention is a system and method to accurately determine the oil consumption of an aircraft engine. The invention accurately determines the Oil Quantity OQ remaining in the oil tank by sensing the level of oil in the oil tank and then compensating that measurement for the oil tank geometry the acceleration of the aircraft and the orientation of the aircraft. The Oil Consumption Rate OCR is calculated using multiple OQs determined at different times and dividing the difference in those oil quantities by the difference in time. The percentage change in the Oil Consumption Rate OCR is calculated by dividing the difference between the actual and nominal OCR over a period of time by the nominal OCR over that period of time.

The invention calculates the oil quantity and the percentage of change in the oil consumption rate of an aircraft engine. Use of the invention helps to detect oil leaks promptly and also helps to detect high oil consumption and or low oil quantity during and after an aircraft flight. Internal oil leaks can be detected automatically and by tracking the Oil Consumption Rate the amount of time remaining before an oil tank becomes empty during an aircraft flight can be predicted. This allows the pilot enough time to take action if an oil leak is detected during the flight of an aircraft. In addition proper calculation of the oil quantity and oil consumption rate is useful for maintenance purposes because it helps to accurately calculate the amount of time before routine oil service is necessary. Finally leak detection utilizing the invention has a low rate of false alarms because aircraft acceleration and orientation are considered in estimating the oil quantity and oil consumption rate.

The aircraft s acceleration is obtained in the form of the vector A Aand A . Aircraft acceleration is measured in distance per secondand is acquired at least once per second. The aircraft s angular rate is obtained as the vector dot over dot over dot over which corresponds to the rates of change in the roll pitch and yaw of the aircraft. shows the definitions of roll pitch and yaw and corresponding angles and . The aircraft s angular rates of change in roll pitch and yaw are measured in radians per second and are acquired at least once per second. Oil level indicating the height of the oil in the oil tank is measured in inches and is collected at least once per second. The engine power setting N is measured in revolutions per minute rpm and is acquired at least once per second. All input variables mentioned above are measured as time sequences and indexed by k.

Oil consumption monitor receives these inputs and produces an appropriate output. Outputs may include warnings such as OIL LEAK signal or LOW OIL LEVEL output or FUEL LEAK output . Oil consumption monitor may also calculate and output the Oil Quantity in the tank of the aircraft or the percentage change in the oil consumption rate OCR of the aircraft. Outputs and are exemplary. The number and nature of the outputs of oil consumption monitor will vary under different circumstances depending on the status of the engine and the output desired by the users.

After data has been obtained in step the process moves on to question box where the aircraft s quasi static state is verified. This step is taken to avoid inaccurate oil quantity estimates during rapid aircraft maneuver or the inability of the OLS to sense the oil level in situations such as extreme acceleration deceleration or attitude. The extreme attitude may include but is not limited to straight up down or upside down flight. To satisfy a quasi static state the aircraft acceleration A A A and angular rate dot over dot over dot over have to be within a certain range. If the aircraft s quasi static state is verified the process proceeds to if not the process ends at end box .

Question box determines whether the oil level is within the range of the oil level sensor. With the previous quasi static state check passed the OLS should be able to sense the oil level in the tank if the oil quantity in the oil tank is in operational range. If this is the case the process moves on to next step . If the oil level is not within the sensor range then a new validation check is performed at step which determines if the oil level is below the minimum oil level limit.

If the validation check at step reveals that the oil level is indeed below the minimum oil level limit a persistency check at step is performed. Step determines whether the oil level is persistently below the minimum oil level limit for a given period of time. If so then the process generates a Low OL Health Report. Code HRC at step . If the validation check at step reveals that the oil level is not below the minimum oil level limit it must be beyond the maximum oil level limit in this case or the persistent check in step fails the process stops for the current data input and ends at end box .

If the oil level is within sensor range at step the process moves on to box where the process calculates the acceleration for the oil tank. The acceleration at oil tank is a composition of the aircraft acceleration and the centripetal acceleration introduced by the aircraft s rotation along pitch roll and yaw. Calculation of acceleration of the oil tank may also include compensation for the difference between the aircraft coordinate system and the oil tank coordinate system. Taking into account the relationship between the aircraft coordinate system and the oil tank coordinate system results in a more accurate calculation of oil quantity because it compensates for the difference between the location of the oil tank and the device that provides the aircraft s acceleration and attitude data.

Calculation of the acceleration which is a vector a a a a is calculated using the following equation 

After calculating the acceleration the process moves on to step of in which the oil quantity OQ is calculated. The oil quantity is calculated by compensating the oil level in the tank with the acceleration calculated in step . First the pitch angle and the roll angle of the acceleration vector a relative to the oil tank coordinate system are calculated. is a graphical representation showing the definition of and where is defined as the angle from the Zaxis to the projection vector aof a onto the x z plane and is defined as the angle from the Zaxis to the projection vector aof a onto the y z plane. The pitch and the roll angle are calculated using following equations 

The conversion function may be established in two different ways. The first option is to use a Conversion Table that specifies the oil quantity for each given combination of the oil level pitch angle and roll angle. Utilizing this option the Conversion Table is searched for the nearest match in oil level pitch angle and roll angle readings and then the oil quantity is determined by the given oil quantity provided in the Conversion Table. Interpolation may be performed if there is no exact match for given oil level pitch angle and roll angle. The second option is to establish an approximation function to represent the OQ as function of the oil level pitch angle and roll angle. In either option the data used to establish may be collected through experiments or generated from the digital model used to design the shape of the oil tank.

After calculating the oil quantity the process moves on to step of which filters out the effect of oil moving around in the oil tank commonly referred to as sloshing . A low pass filter is applied to the oil quantity in order to eliminate the effect of oil sloshing in the form of OQ OQ 1 OQ 0

After filtering the oil sloshing effect the process moves on to step which begins a low oil quantity check. If the current OQ is not below the minimum OQ limit the process proceeds to step . However if the current OQ is below the minimum OQ limit which indicates that an immediate oil service is needed the process moves into a persistency check at step . Step determines whether the oil quantity is persistently below the minimum OQ limit for a given period of time. If so then the process generates a Low OQ HRC at step and then moves on to step . If the validation check at step reveals that the oil quantity is not below the minimum oil quantity limit or the persistent check in step fails the process moves on directly to step .

During an engine run or an aircraft s flight it may be useful to monitor the oil consumption rate. At step the actual oil consumption rate at the time k is estimated as the difference between the oil quantity previously determined at n time intervals back and the current oil quantity divided by the difference in time over the past n time intervals OCR OQ OQ where tand trepresent the times at k and k n respectively.

Following calculation of OCR an oil consumption rate check is performed at question box to determine whether OCR is higher than a threshold T indicating high oil consumption rate. A persistency check is performed at step and if the OCR is persistently higher than the threshold Tfor a given period of time an Oil Leak HRC is generated at step . Question box determines whether the oil consumption rate is lower than a negative threshold T indicating negative oil consumption caused by fuel leaking into the lubrication system. A persistency check is performed at step and if the OCR is persistently lower than the threshold Tfor a given period of time a Fuel Leak HRC is generated at step . OCR is reported at step .

After the persistent check the process moves into step for an after flight check. The after flight check is performed at step . If at current time the flight status indicates the flight has not been completed the current process stops and ends at end box . If the flight status indicates the flight is completed the process proceeds to step to generate the average oil consumption rate for the entire flight.

At step the average of actual oil consumption rate representing the entire flight can be approximated as 

The actual oil consumption rate OCR is reported at step the percentage change in oil consumption rate OCR is reported at step and the latest oil quantity OQ is reported at step . This data is reported to the ground processing system for long term tracking. The process ends at end box .

The invention accurately calculates the oil quantity in an aircraft oil tank and the oil consumption rate of an aircraft engine by taking into account the acceleration and the attitude of the aircraft. Oil quantity and oil consumption rate determined using the invention are more accurate than conventional measuring techniques. As a result fewer incorrect false low oil warnings will be generated and aircraft maintenance personnel will have a more accurate determination of oil quantity and oil consumption rates for aircraft engines resulting in more efficient maintenance of the engines.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

