---

title: Voicemail filtering and transcription
abstract: Systems and methods for voicemail filtering and transcription are described herein. According to various embodiments, an integrated communication system performs filtering and transcription of voicemail messages (“voicemails”) and forwards the voicemails via email to a user's email-capable device. Filtering includes generating a priority flag based on a word search of the voicemail. The integrated communication system further performs a rough transcription of the voicemail, either automatically or on demand as specified by the user. According to embodiments, the rough transcription is entered as text in an email that is sent to the user. In an embodiment, a user may request a refined transcription of the voicemail by pressing a button on the user's device. In an embodiment, the rough transcription is replaced by the refined transcription in the original email and the original is marked “unread” in the user's email inbox on the user's device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08160212&OS=08160212&RS=08160212
owner: Avaya Inc.
number: 08160212
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070221
---
Voicemail Filtering and Transcription U.S. application Ser. No. 11 709 475 invented by Jens Ulrik Skakkebaek and Cary W. FitzGerald filed concurrently herewith and

Voicemail Filtering and Transcription U.S. application Ser. No. 11 709 513 invented by Jens Ulrik Skakkebaek and Cary W. FitzGerald filed concurrently herewith.

The disclosure herein relates generally to integrated communication and messaging systems and more particularly to voicemail transcription in such systems.

Almost everyone today communicates using more than one communication technology or medium multiple times per day. Communication media include electronic mail email messaging Short Messaging Service SMS messaging voice messaging and more. Users receive and send messages over a variety of wired and wireless networks via a variety of devices such as desktop computers wired phones wireless devices e.g. phones and personal digital assistants PDAs and more.

Currently it is possible to receive emails on a mobile phone device such as a BlackBerry . It is also possible to receive notification of voicemails via email on any email capable device. In some systems email notification includes a playable audio file such as a WAV file for example of the message so the user may hear the message without calling in to a voicemail system. This voicemail email integration is available to individual users through commercial providers who may redirect voice callers from the users old phone number to their system. Alternatively some providers give the user a different number to be used for voicemail to email processing. In addition complete integration of communication media within an enterprise is available from Adomo Inc. For example the Adomo Unified Communications solutions integrate tightly with existing enterprise communications and data management systems to provide employees with seamless access to messages of all types on all devices no matter where the employee are physically located.

As capable devices and systems proliferate users increasingly demand that their messages be readily if not instantly available on all of their devices regardless of the type or source of the message. At the same time the ubiquity of highly capable communication devices just seems to raise message recipients expectations that their messages will be very promptly received understood and appropriately responded to. Even though users have more and faster access than ever to voicemail and email there are still some areas in which the time for apprehending and or responding to messages can be relatively slow. For example a user may receive an email notification that a voicemail has been received but may be unable to access and or listen to the voicemail right away. If the user is in a meeting it may be acceptable to glance at his or her device to see what kind of message has been received but it is not acceptable to listen to a voicemail. In some cases the identity of the voicemail sender may be known from the notification which might provide some level of information regarding the urgency of the message. In many cases there is no information other than the notification itself.

To eliminate the inconvenience and delay caused by having to listen to voicemails methods have been developed to provide voicemail transcriptions to a user s device such as a BlackBerry for example instead of an audio data file or a link to an audio data file. For example Spinvox Ltd. offers a voicemail transcription service that requires a mobile network provider to install particular voicemail software. Voicemail data is sent by the network provider to a transcriber who plays and transcribes the voice message then sends the text of the transcription to the user s device. This method has the disadvantage of lacking complete integration with the user s email system. One part of the communication is the original voice call which is disconnected from the later email in which the transcribed text is sent. Thus the entire history of the communication is not readily available for archiving or audit purposes for example. Another disadvantage is that each voicemail is treated in the same way whether or not any user benefit is derived from having the transcription performed.

Another conventional example of voicemail transcription is provided by SimulScribe Inc. SimulScribe provides a service that includes redirecting the user s callers to an intermediary voicemail system that performs transcription of all voicemails and forwards the text result to the user s phone. This method has the same disadvantages previously mentioned. Other disadvantages of various prior methods include a requirement for the user to give callers a different number in order to receive transcription and the lack of privacy or confidentiality guarantees to callers who may not wish their voicemails to be transcribed or may wish to control the disposition of transcripts.

All publications and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

In the drawings the same reference numbers identify identical or substantially similar elements or acts. To easily identify the discussion of any particular element or act the most significant digit or digits in a reference number refer to the Figure number in which that element is first introduced e.g. element is first introduced and discussed with respect to .

Systems and methods for voicemail filtering and transcription are described herein. According to various embodiments an integrated communication system performs filtering and transcription of voicemails and forwards the voicemails via email to a user s email capable device. For example the email is sent to a system including an email server from which the email is sent to the user s device. In an embodiment a filter transcribe module filters received voicemails of a user either automatically or on demand as specified by the user. Filtering includes looking for predetermined words in the voicemail. One result of filtering is determining a relative urgency of the voicemail message. The integrated communication system further performs a rough transcription of the voicemail either automatically or on demand as specified by the user. The rough transcription is not intended to be word for word but rather provides enough of the message content to allow the user to very quickly review the rough transcription and determine the appropriate action to take in response to the voicemail. According to embodiments the rough transcription is entered as text in an email that is sent to the user. In various embodiments an audio file of the original voicemail is an attachment to the email. Further if the voicemail message is determined by the filtering to be urgent a priority flag indicating high priority is attached to the email. In an embodiment a user may request a refined transcription of the voicemail by pressing a button on the user s device. The refined transcription is a highly accurate transcription of the voicemail. In an embodiment the rough transcription is replaced by the refined transcription in the original email and the original is marked unread in the user s email inbox on the user s device.

As used herein integrated communication systems or ICSs integrate different types of messaging so that a user of the ICS can access multiple types of messages e.g. voicemail messages electronic mail email messages instant messaging messages SMS Short Messaging System messages MMS Multimedia Messaging System messages etc. with a single message interface. In providing integrated messaging functionality via a single message interface the ICS of an embodiment relieves the dependency on a voicemail system for example by providing users with access to voicemail messages and capabilities of the voicemail system through the local groupware applications and email messaging system. The systems and methods described herein are applicable to any ICS. In an embodiment the ICS is part of an enterprise system and is integrated with an enterprise groupware application but the claimed invention is not so limited. In other embodiments the ICS is not part of an enterprise system but is accessible to users for example via the internet and or a wireless communication network.

In the following description numerous specific details are introduced to provide a thorough understanding of and enabling description for embodiments of filtering and transcription. One skilled in the relevant art however will recognize that these embodiments can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other components systems etc. In other instances well known structures or operations are not shown or are not described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the disclosed embodiments.

F T module also performs filtering of the voicemail message which includes searching for predetermined words in the voicemail. In an embodiment the words searched for are in a word list that contains certain default words that connote urgency such as urgent important immediately ASAP etc. However filtering may include searching for any words that connote anything including words or names that indicate the message is not urgent . In addition in some embodiments the user may add words to the word list including names of people who can be callers or subject of the voicemail message. The user may specify that these added words if found in the search always be included in the rough transcription. Also the user may specify that if certain words from the word list are found in the search other words are included in the rough transcription. For example if Company X is found include Highest Priority in the rough transcription. The rough transcription facilitates the user determining an appropriate response to the voice message. In yet other embodiments ICS is integrated with an enterprise groupware application and users are members of the enterprise. In this case all of the enterprise data is available to F T module including contact lists user voicemail preferences user email preferences etc. In yet other embodiments a user may designate other sources in the user s networked environment for words to be used in the search. Web based consumer relationship management CRM applications customer support systems and internal accounting system are just a few examples but there are many others.

Any of this information can be used to filter the voicemail as desired. If predetermined words are found in the voicemail a priority email flag is generated. The priority email flag is compliant with a user device and is a visual cue to urgency of an email message in a message list but embodiments are not so limited. The priority flag may also include an audio notification or alert instead of or in addition to the visual flag.

F T module further includes an intelligent voicemail handler IVH in an embodiment. The IVH requests refined transcriptions on its own initiative for example by applying rules to the information described above. As an example the information available to the IVH includes the user s calendar. This allows the IVH to automatically set a particularly non intrusive notification type for emails that contain voicemail messages when the IVH knows the user is in a meeting. Also the IVH automatically requests a refined transcription when the user is in a meeting. The IVH in some embodiments includes an adaptive rules engine that modifies its behavior based on history including which words occurred more in emails for which refined transcriptions were requested by the user etc.

F T module performs a rough transcription of the voicemail either automatically or on demand as specified by the user. The rough transcription is not intended to be word for word but rather provides enough of the message content to allow the user to very quickly review the rough transcription and determine the appropriate action to take in response to the voicemail. According to an embodiment the rough transcription is entered as text in an email that is sent to the user as shown by arrow via a messaging server messaging store . Audio file is also attached to email in an embodiment and the user can listen to the voicemail by playing audio file on the user device .

If the filtering did not indicate urgency then the audio file and rough transcription are sent to the device via the messaging server messaging store at . In various embodiments the exact order of events may not be as shown in . Process is just one example of a process as claimed. In other embodiments an email may be stored in the messaging server messaging store before the filtering and or transcription is performed. In yet other embodiments filtering and storing may occur before transcription. Many other variations in the order of the actions described are within the scope of the claims.

At filtering is performed using word recognition against the word list and the recipient data. At an email is transmitted to the user device via the messaging server messaging store using recipient data. For example recipient data may include sending instructions e.g. send all voicemails using default procedure rough transcription WAV and flag if certain words are found simultaneously send for refined transcription etc. . Refined transcription is explained further below.

ICS includes F T module . At least one network here indicated as network is coupled to environments and . As described herein network always implies any one or more of the network types previously listed. Networked environment includes a computer which will be referred to herein as a transcriber computer. Transcriber computer or transcriber as used herein encompasses both a computer performing transcription using voice recognition software and a human transcriber. In some embodiments computer is the device performing a refined transcription while in other embodiments computer is a machine used by a human transcriber. In either case computer is a device at which a request for a refined transcription is received from F T module as further described herein. A file server is coupled to environments and via network . In other embodiments file server is not a web server coupled as shown but is a file server included in a networked environment such as environment or environment . In general file server is accessible to both environment and environment .

With reference to the numbered arrow on the diagram a process for obtaining a refined transcription will now be described. As indicated by arrow email message is displayed on user device . The user can open and view email message in the email inbox of the device along with the priority flag if applicable. When email is opened the text is visible as the body of email . The user can quickly review the rough transcription provided by text and decide whether a refined transcription is necessary. At a glance the user can determine at least the following from text no immediate action should be taken in response to the voicemail message a known action should be taken and the urgency is known or the urgency or ambiguity of text calls for a refined transcription. As used herein refined transcription indicates a transcription of the audio file of the original voicemail message that would be determined by the user to be more complete and more accurate.

If the user decides a refined transcription is needed the user sends a request to ICS as shown by arrow . In an embodiment the user merely presses a button on the device to make this request. Alternatively the request is made by a voice command for example or always done automatically. The request is received by F T module which responds by retrieving the audio file from the messaging server messaging store and placing it on file server via network as shown by arrow . F T module in an embodiment generates a request for refined transcription in the form of an instant message . Instant message is sent to the computer as shown by arrows . Computer receives instant message . In the case of a human transcriber the transcriber reads instant message which includes instructions on where to access file server to fetch audio file . The transcriber fetches audio file as shown by arrow . The transcriber listens to audio file while typing the refined transcription into a designated area of the user s screen in the normal manner for instant messaging. The completed refined transcription is sent back to ICS via instant message as shown by arrow . In alternative embodiments the transcriber sends the completed refined transcription via any electronic message including but not limited to an email message. An instant message is just one example of an electronic message that can be used for this purpose.

F T module replaces the rough transcription in text with the refined transcription and marks the original email as unread as shown by arrow . F T module then sends a notification to the user arrow to indicate the request for the refined transcription is fulfilled. The user can now view the original email in the device inbox marked as unread and containing the refined transcription.

F T module receives the refined transcription via instant message updates the rough transcription in original email message by replacing text with the refined transcription and marks email message unread at . At F T module signals user device that the transcription request is fulfilled. In various embodiments signaling can include one or more different forms of notification including a special email flag an audible alert etc.

ICS includes F T module . At least one network here indicated as network is coupled to environments and . Networked environment includes transcriber computer. Transcriber computer or transcriber as used herein encompasses both a computer performing transcription using voice recognition software and a human transcriber. In some embodiments computer is the device performing a refined transcription while in other embodiments computer is a machine used by a human transcriber. In either case computer is a device at which a request for a refined transcription is received from F T module as further described herein. File server is coupled to environments and via network . As previously described file server may be any file server in any location accessible to environment and environment and is not limited to the configuration shown.

With reference to the numbered arrow on the diagram a process for obtaining a refined transcription will now be described. As indicated by arrow email message is displayed on user device . The user can open view email message in the email inbox of the device along with the priority flag if applicable. When email is opened the text is visible as the body of email . The user can quickly review the rough transcription provided by text and decide whether a refined transcription is necessary. At a glance the user can determine at least the following from text no immediate action should be taken in response to the voicemail message a known action should be taken and the urgency is known or the urgency or ambiguity of text calls for a refined transcription.

If the user decides a refined transcription is needed the user sends a request to ICS as shown by arrow . In an embodiment the user merely presses a button on the device to make this request. The request is received by F T module which responds by retrieving the audio file from the messaging server messaging store and placing it on file server via network as shown by arrow . F T module in an embodiment generates a request for refined transcription in the form of a notification . In various embodiments notification includes an instant message an email an SMS and a voice message but embodiments are not so limited. Notification is sent to the computer as shown by arrows . Computer receives notification . In the case of a human transcriber the transcriber reads notification which includes instructions on where to access file server to fetch a web page that includes audio file . The transcriber navigates to the web page and fetches audio file as shown by arrow . The transcriber listens to audio file while typing the refined transcription onto the web page as shown further with reference to . When the refined transcription is finished the transcriber clicks a button or link on the web page to send the refined transcription to F T module as shown by arrow .

F T module replaces the rough transcription in text with the refined transcription and marks the original email as unread as shown by arrow . F T module then sends a notification to the user arrow to indicate the request for the refined transcription is fulfilled. The user now views the original email in the device inbox marked as unread and containing the refined transcription. The method illustrated and described with reference to is just one example of an embodiment. Alternatively the email is not marked unread but the alert is sent to the user for example. Also alternatively the refined transcription is appended to the rough transcription rather than replacing it. As another alternative a second email that contains the refined transcription is sent to the user.

In embodiments described herein voicemail messages are transcribed for email users without using more than one email message. For embodiments in which the original email message containing the audio file is the same email used throughout processes described herein ease of tracking message history is greatly enhanced. It is easier for the user to track the history of a message thread. It is also much easier for the user and or enterprise administrator to archive message threads that include transcription processes. Complete and accurate message archives are increasingly required for compliance with auditing processes legal discovery processes Securities and Exchange Commission SEC processes etc.

At F T module sends a notification to the transcriber requesting transcription. The transcriber at navigates to an indicated web site. For example the notification may include a hyperlink to the appropriate web page. The transcriber listens to the audio file while typing into the area provided in the web page then clicks SEND .

At F T module retrieves the refined transcription from file server . F T module updates the rough transcription in the original message with the refined transcription and marks the original email message unread at . F T module then signals the user mobile device that the transcription request is fulfilled at . This signal may include a special email flag on the original email that appears in the message list. This signal may also include an audible alert instead of or in addition to the flag. 

In some embodiments F T module is adaptive in order to increase accuracy and usefulness of the transcription processes as described herein. For example the word list that is use in filtering may automatically adapt to include or exclude words based on which words are included in voicemails for which refined transcription are requested over time.

System further includes an ICS under an embodiment. ICS includes a communication server an interface module IM and a cache system also referred to as the cache but is not so limited. Communication server couples to components of any number of networks using any of a variety of communication protocols. Network and networked environment may be of the same or of different types. Network and networked environment allow for information transfers between various client devices and also referred to as user devices and .

IM of ICS couples to transfer information or data with communication server . Additionally IM couples to transfer information with one or more components of a messaging server where transferring information includes one or more of pulling receiving retrieving polling transmitting and pushing operations to name a few. As an example of an information transfer between IM and messaging server IM pulls user information from messaging server and makes the pulled user information available to other components of ICS wherein the user information includes information relevant to at least networked environment .

The components of messaging server may include for example one or more processors also referred to as central processing units or CPUs and one or more databases coupled to CPU . In an embodiment IM may be hosted on or running under control of messaging server but is not limited to this configuration. Further messaging server may be a component of networked environment that hosts communication server but is not so limited. For example messaging server may be hosting a groupware application e.g. Microsoft Exchange LotusNotes etc. of networked environment .

Cache couples to communication server and communicates to transfer information with one or more of communication server IM and one or more components of messaging server as described below. Cache may also couple to additional components not shown of network .

As an example of information transfers between cache and communication server cache may receive caller information e.g. voicemail messages caller identification etc. from client devices via communication server . An example of information transfers between cache and messaging server includes transfers in which cache receives user information from messaging server where the user information may be routed from messaging server via IM and or communication server . Another example of information transfers between cache and messaging server includes transfers in which messaging server receives information from cache routed from cache via communication server and or IM .

Examples of information transfers between cache and IM include transfers of user information pulled from messaging server by IM and directed to cache and transfers in which IM directs a message from at least one of messaging server and cache to at least one device on network and networked environment using the user information. Cache holds or temporarily stores the received information under the above examples.

Network and networked environment include various network components not shown of one or more communication service providers or carriers but are not so limited. Further network and networked environment and corresponding network components can be any of a number combination of network types known in the art for providing communications among coupled devices and including but not limited to proprietary networks local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs backend networks public switched telephone networks PSTN the Internet and other public networks for example. Additionally networks and may include hybrid networks that use a proprietary network for some portion of the communications routing for example while using one or more different public networks for other portions of the communications routing.

Client devices and include communication devices like telephones cellular telephones and radio telephones. Client devices and also include processor based devices like for example portable computers PC portable computing devices personal digital assistants PDA communication devices cellular telephones portable telephones portable communication devices and user devices or units. Client devices can include so called multi modal devices where the user can interact with the device and or the ICS through any form of input and output such as text input speech recognition text output text to speech graphics recorded files and video. In such devices the speech recognition and text to speech generation may partly take place in the device and partly in the ICS. Sound and or video may be generated by the ICS by a continuous stream of sound and or video data sent to the device. Client devices can include all such devices and equivalents and are not limited to any particular type of communication and or processor based device. In an embodiment client devices are client devices operating in a private network environment such as an enterprise network while client devices are client devices operating in different private network environment or under any number of public networks. The term client devices as used herein encompasses user devices or user mobile devices as previously described.

Communication server couples to any number of client devices external to networked environment via one or more networks not shown . Similarly communication server couples to any number of client devices local to networked environment .

Communication server includes an operating system as well as numerous components or subsystems. These components include but are not limited to one or more F T modules and Voice Applications an Execution Engine and any number of Mobile Application Modules or any other type of application module.

CS in an embodiment includes an Operating System along with an Execution Engine an F T module and some number of F T modules F T and Voice Applications and some number of Mobile Applications. The Operating System includes for example a Linux kernel with a journaling file system that provides integrity of file system tables and the data structure. The storage on the CS may be configured as a RAID Redundant Array of Independent Disks configuration to provide high reliability access to software and data. The Operating System supports operations of numerous other components of the CS.

With regard to the Operating System the CS includes a Telephony Interface that couples calls and connects callers and users to from the CS. The Telephony Interface couples call information to from a private branch exchange PBX not shown for example where the PBX is a component of system . The Telephony Interface couples to the PBX using a variety of telephony integrations that include one or more of analog Simplified Message Desk Interface SMDI T1 E1 Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and Digital Set Emulation DSE signals but may couple using other signals signaling protocols. When receiving a call from the PBX for example the CS receives data of an incoming call from the PBX where the data includes called party information a reason for transfer of call e.g. called party line busy no answer by called party called party using call forwarding etc. and calling parting information caller ID etc. .

A Driver couples information received at the Telephony Interface to the Telephony Services component of the CS. The Driver may perform low level signaling and or data conversion as appropriate to the received signals. The Telephony Services include one or more components for use in processing the received signals. These components include for example voice processing switching control and PBX signaling but are not limited to these components.

The CS of an embodiment includes at least one Voice Browser that when the CS receives a call receives voice information of the call. The Voice Browser controls the use of automatic speech recognition ASR for speech recognition and DTMF recognition. The Voice Browser of an embodiment couples to a cache or other temporary store that holds voice recordings and or name grammars Voice Recordings Grammars the name grammars are cached after being generated from names in a user list in an embodiment . The store in an embodiment also contains word lists for filtering using the F T module as described herein. In an embodiment a default word list is applied unless a user specific word list has been created and store for a user. The ASR in an embodiment is used in performing the rough transcription.

The ASR may use information of the name grammars. Further the Voice Browser controls the use of text to speech TTS as well as the play of any number of pre recorded prompts e.g. WAV format files . The Voice Browser uses voice extensible markup language VXML but is not limited to this protocol. Alternative embodiments of the CS may not include the Voice Browser. As an alternative to a Voice Browser the CS may directly communicate with or use other software or processes for communication between the voice application and the Telephony Services and or Driver.

The Virtual Machine Voice Applications and Execution Engine form a hierarchical state machine framework in which the Virtual Machine runs a number of APIs and modules. Consequently the Voice Applications can include one component controlling the user interfaces UI to the CS and another component handling lower level communications with the modules. Use of a loose coupling between the modules and the Voice Browser provided by the state machine framework allows independence between the languages used in the different modules and the Voice Browser. The state machine framework may receive hypertext transport protocol HTTP requests from the Voice Browser for example and generate VXML or Speech Application Language Tags SALT SALT extends existing mark up languages such as hypertext markup language HTML extensible hypertext markup language XHTML and extensible markup language XML and enables multimodal and telephony enabled access to information applications and web services from devices like PCs telephones and PDAs for example .

The Voice Applications of an embodiment include a number of components including an automatic attendant a caller interface a user interface and a system main menu but may include other types of voice applications. The automatic attendant is speech enabled but may be dual tone multi frequency DTMF enabled. The automatic attendant which can be enabled or disabled uses information of contact lists e.g. User List in the Cache.

The Voice Applications also include at least one voicemail application. The voicemail application uses information of the Cache e.g. User List Global Address List Public Folders Personal Contact Folders in operations that include sending a new voicemail and or forwarding a received voicemail. In an embodiment the F T module accesses Cache information during filtering for example to search for names or information in a voicemail that matched Cache information.

The voicemail application also uses Cache information in support of voicemail networking in which voicemails and corresponding information are exchanged with groupware applications of system .

The voicemail application couples to the CS state machine framework described above via one or more application programming interfaces API . The APIs handle the different data formats types in use by enterprise network system e.g. greeting data PIN Personal Identification Number code data voicemail message data system parameters etc. . Similarly the Cache also couples to the state machine framework where the Cache includes one or more of local cache and distributed cache. Therefore communications among the voicemail application the Cache and the MSERV take place via the state machine framework and the APIs as appropriate to the state e.g. offline online of the MSERV.

In addition to the Voice Applications the modules running under the Virtual Machine of an embodiment include Mobile Applications. The Mobile Applications provide access to user information via mobile devices where the access may include transferring information of email calendar and or contacts to a user s mobile client device via an electronic message e.g. SMS MMS and or pager .

The CS also includes an Administration Configuration manager. The Administration Configuration manager provides access to and control of a unified configuration file of the CS. The Administration Configuration manager uses information of the unified configuration file to provide separate Configuration Files to one or more of the components of the CS as appropriate. The unified configuration file can be copied from the CS and stored for backup purposes. Additionally a predefined configuration file may be uploaded to the CS to provide the appropriate configuration for the CS. A browser interface to the Administration Configuration manager allows remote access to the CS.

The CS also includes a Self Maintenance Supervisor or reliability server that monitors CS components and restarts failed processes when necessary for example. In addition the CS also includes Security Restrictions for use in controlling CS port security.

As described above the CS of an embodiment interfaces with the MSERV via the IM. The CS communicates with the IM via the Groupware Connector for example but is not so limited. The Groupware Connector of an embodiment includes a Web Server but is not so limited. The MSERV functions as a messaging and collaboration server. The IM is an interface that runs under the MSERV in one embodiment to provide communications and information transfers between components of the CS and components of the MSERV. In other embodiments the IM may run under control of the CS for example. The IM includes and or couples with Management Console as well as with a diagnostics component Diagnostics Component and or a run time component RTC not shown .

Management Console supports access to the CS by a system administrator of system for purposes of managing user access. Consequently Management Console allows a system administrator to enable new users with integrated messaging functionality of the ICS and administer and monitor one or more CSs.

The Diagnostics Component of the IM supports on the fly diagnostics gathering computing and or compiling of pre specified diagnostics information or parameters from the MSERV. In this manner the CS may provide diagnostics information and a user may provide dynamically updateable diagnostics information.

The RTC translates communications between components of the CS and components of the MSERV. As an example the RTC may be used to retrieve user information from the directory service e.g. Active Directory of a groupware application in response to a request from the CS as described below. Communications between the RTC and components of the CS use for example XML and Web Services. Communications between the RTC and the MSERV may use one or more APIs of the MSERV e.g. MAPI Collaboration Data Objects CDO Web Distributed Authoring and Versioning WebDAV etc. .

The MSERV of an embodiment represents a messaging and collaboration server. The messaging and collaboration server includes a groupware application that runs on one or more servers and enables users via local client devices to send and or receive electronic mail and other forms of interactive communication through computer networks. The CS of an embodiment interoperates with groupware applications that include but are not limited to Microsoft Exchange Server but alternative embodiments may use other types of messaging and collaboration servers. Therefore the CS of an embodiment interoperates with client device applications client applications such as Microsoft Outlook as well as with other email client applications e.g. Microsoft Outlook Express .

The MSERV sends and receives email messages through what is commonly referred to as a client device such as a personal computer workstation or a mobile device including mobile phones or PDAs. The client device typically connects to the LAN which may include any number and or combination of servers or mainframe computers where the email mailboxes and public folders are stored. The centralized servers connect to numerous other types of networks e.g. private or proprietary and the Internet to transmit email messages to and receive email messages from other email users. Consequently the CS uses the MSERV for storing and forwarding email messages in an embodiment.

The MSERV also couples to a directory service not shown which is a database of information on each user account in the enterprise network system. Access to the directory service may use for example a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP .

With regard to client device access functionality the MSERV provides integrated collaborative messaging features such as scheduling contact and task management capabilities. As an example MSERV configuration when the MSERV is Microsoft Exchange the MSERV runs on a version of the Microsoft Windows Server operating system. A version of Microsoft Office Outlook runs on Windows based local client devices and communicates with the MSERV through the messaging application programming interface MAPI protocol. The MSERV also accommodates other client device access by supporting one or more of Post Office Protocol 3 POP3 and Internet Message Access Protocol 4 IMAP4 protocols as well as support for Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP . Using this same MSERV configuration example the CS of an embodiment along with Microsoft Outlook Web Access a service in Microsoft Exchange accommodates web browser based access clients also referred to as thin clients.

The MSERV collaboration features support information sharing among users. Collaborative scenarios include maintaining shared address lists that all users can view and edit scheduling meetings that include people and conference rooms by viewing associated free or busy schedules the ability to grant other people such as administrators access to user mailboxes on behalf of the user.

As described above the IM serves as an interface for the transfer of information between components of the CS and components of the MSERV. Transferring information includes for example pulling receiving retrieving polling transmitting and pushing operations to name a few. As an example of information transfers between the CS and the MSERV the IM pulls information from one or more components of the MSERV and makes the pulled information available to for example the CS Cache. The IM also pushes information from one or more components of the CS to the MSERV.

In serving as an interface between the CS and the MSERV the components of the IM e.g. RTC translate communications between components of the CS e.g. Virtual Machine Cache etc. and components of the MSERV environment. As an example the IM retrieves user information from components of the directory service e.g. Active Directory in response to a request from the CS Cache.

Embodiments of the IM may include one or more of the following components an RTC a Management Console a desktop component messaging actions control component Diagnostics Component and or a message waiting indication component. The desktop component allows the user to configure aspects of the user s integrated messaging account such as voice message greetings extended absence greeting PIN code data and presence information. In an embodiment the desktop component allows the user to configure behavior of the F T module. For example filtering and transcription may be turned off for all voicemail messages. As another example refined transcription is automatically requested for voicemail messages from certain callers. Many other behaviors are possible based on all of the Cache information available within the system .

The messaging actions control component receives and responds to user generated requests from a form based user interface FBUI to take actions such as playing replaying to and forwarding voice messages requesting a refined transcription calling the sender of a voicemail message and more. The message waiting indication component receives events from the user s message inbox folder and requests corresponding action from the PBX or other aspect of the telephony system such turning on message waiting indicators on the user s device s . The message waiting indication component may send notifications by way of SMS MMS and or pager.

Directory service provides a location for storage of information about network based entities such as applications files and printers to name a few. Directory service also stores information about individuals also referred to as users and this information is referred to herein as User Information. As such directory service provides a consistent way to name describe locate access manage and secure information about individual resources in an enterprise network environment. Directory service uses the stored information to act as the main switchboard of the enterprise network operating system and is therefore the central authority that manages the identities and brokers the relationships between distributed resources of the enterprise network thus enabling the resources to work together. Directory service of an embodiment may be Microsoft Active Directory AD but is not so limited.

In embodiments including AD there is a user object stored in an AD Database for each enterprise user. For example the user object for enterprise USER is shown as USER object . The user object includes many fixed attributes such as user name user phone number user mailbox location and user email address.

The user object further includes a number of Custom Attributes. The number of Custom Attributes is small for example fifteen compared to the number of fixed attributes. The Custom Attributes are usable to store information not provided for in the predefined fixed attributes. In one embodiment a Custom Attribute stores user specific data that is used by the F T module and Voice Applications. Examples of such user specific data include a user specific word list and user preferences regarding the behavior of the F T module. Further examples of user specific data include a class of service COS for the user a voicemail extension for the user whether voicemail is enabled for the user etc. The data is stored as a data stream in the Custom Attribute with a maximum size of 2048 bytes. In an alternative embodiment the user specific data that is used by the F T module and Voice Applications is stored as individual data items in fixed attributes by extending AD in a known manner.

The user mailbox location fixed attribute indicates where the user s email mailbox is stored in the enterprise. In some large enterprises there may be many MSERVs each including a database storing many user mailboxes. As shown the mailbox location fixed attribute points to USER mailbox on an MSERV called MSERV .

User mailbox stores email messages sent to the user as well as outgoing messages and other items for predetermined periods of time. In an embodiment the messages can be of at least two types one of which is a normal message that is routinely accessible by the user. Another message type is a hidden message that is not routinely accessible by the user through the normal user email interfaces. In an embodiment a hidden message is used to store data used by the F T module and Voice Applications. In contrast to the data stored in the Custom Attribute however the data stored in the hidden message can be much larger than the 2048 byte limit of the custom attribute. In one embodiment among the data stored in the hidden message are audio files stored as attachments to the hidden message such as a busy greeting for the user s voicemail mailbox a no answer greeting for the user s voicemail mailbox and a recorded name for the user s voicemail mailbox.

An example of the CS accessing the MSERV environment through IM is a phone caller calling the voicemail mailbox of USER when USER is on the phone. The CS transmits an action via IM with a request to play busy greeting. The transmission includes information to access the USER object fixed attributes to determine the user s email mailbox location. In addition the transmission includes information to access the USER object Custom Attribute and to transfer the contents of the Custom Attribute to the CS via IM . When the user s email mailbox is accessed the hidden message is opened to transfer the appropriate audio file busy greeting in this case to the CS for playing over the phone to the caller. In many cases it may not be necessary to transfer either the Custom Attribute or the audio file from the MSERV environment because the current custom attributes and audio file are cached on the CS.

As described above operations of the Voice Applications and the Virtual Machine couple the Cache and other components of the CS to components of the MSERV via the IM. As such the CS and the IM support the transfer of information between the Cache and backend network components like the MSERV and the database. This configuration provides transparency between the Voice Applications and data stored in the database when using information of the database to support voicemail messaging functions of the CS as described below.

The information transfers between the Cache and the MSERV along with use of the Custom Attributes and Hidden Messages as described above allow the ICS to overcome the need for an external database to store information stored by a typical voicemail system. This is because the information used by the CS in providing voicemail message capabilities integrated with the email messaging capabilities of the enterprise network is pulled by the CS from the MSERV via the IM. The pulling or retrieving may be performed periodically continually on demand and or in response to particular events e.g. update of the information in the MSERV but is not so limited. The information pulled by the CS includes information of a Global Address List GAL information of one or more Public Folders Personal Contacts and information of a User List. 

The GAL includes information of all users in the enterprise network having access privileges that include the use of email. Public Folders include information of the network enterprise e.g. contacts calendars etc. that are shared with all users. The Personal Contacts include contact information for each user.

The User List includes User Information for a subset of users in the GAL each of whom has access privileged that include the use of the ICS. The User List therefore is a subset of the GAL and is retrieved and or cached as a separate list or stream in order to improve efficiency of communications and minimize the delays associated with having the CS search the entire contents of the GAL for information used in executing a user requested action on a voicemail message. The User List of an embodiment includes one more of the following parameters corresponding to each user but is not limited to these parameters Site identification mail box number pronounceable name office telephone extension COS automatic attendant state e.g. enabled disabled voicemail state e.g. enabled disabled Voice User Interface VUI state e.g. enabled disabled mobile access state e.g. enabled disabled bad logins locked out attendant destination force change of PIN code mobile gateway identification full name first name last name user name home telephone number office telephone number cellular telephone number identification email address department active greeting state time and date announcement voicemail notification state e.g. enabled disabled mail box status PIN code in encrypted or raw form no answer greeting busy greeting extended absence greeting recorded name and system greeting.

Instead of storing the information pulled from the MSERV in a separate voicemail database as would be done in a typical voicemail system the pulled information is pushed by the IM to the CS and held in the Cache. The CS uses the pulled information in subsequent voicemail message manipulation operations as described below. This pulling and caching of information by the CS improves the speed and efficiency of voicemail message operations and prevents unnecessary loads on the MSERV resulting from the nearly continuous stream of read requests to the MSERV database in typical messaging systems.

The pulling of information from the MSERV by the CS includes pulling and caching of information including the GAL Public Folder and User List. The pulled information is cached by the CS on a system or non individual basis because this information applies throughout the enterprise. This information is pulled and cached periodically for example at 24 hour intervals e.g. each morning at 2 00 am or may be loaded on demand but is not so limited.

In contrast the CS pulls and caches information of the Personal Contacts on a per user basis because this information is different for each user. The Personal Contacts may be requested and cached by the CS periodically or on demand e.g. at the time a user logs in to the ICS in response to modifications of the Personal Contacts etc. .

In operating to provide integrated messaging capabilities the CS and the IM function to route a call placed by a caller to a user and in the event the user is not available to receive and route a voicemail message left by the caller. The CS and the IM also function to provide a user with access to voicemail messages using the messaging server of the enterprise email system. The voicemail access supports both online and offline modes of the messaging server.

An example of call routing by the CS and with further reference to the CS receives and detects a call at the Telephony Interface. Data of the call e.g. called party information calling party information reason for call transfer etc. invokes the Voice Browser. The Voice Browser transfers a request to the Voice Applications in response to the call data.

A Dispatcher component of the Voice Applications routes the call to one or more other Voice Application components in accordance with information of the User List. As an example the Dispatcher identifies the target user for the call and determines whether the target user s automatic attendant is enabled. If the automatic attendant is enabled then the automatic attendant receives the call request and provides the caller with one or more call routing options e.g. caller selects call routing by selecting and or saying extension number selecting and or saying name etc. and routes the call according to the caller s input.

As an example one or more of the Voice Applications determine an active greeting currently designated by the user for use in responding to calls e.g. system greeting no answer greeting busy greeting extended absence greeting etc. and retrieve the designated active greeting from one of the Cache or MSERV as appropriate to a state of the MSERV. The respective application s play the greeting activate a record mode to record the voicemail message of the caller and provide the caller with additional options available for call and or message routing e.g. message marking options message delivery options send message route message to additional users etc. . Upon completion of the recording and or selection of a message routing option by the caller the respective application s terminate the call hangs up and transfer the recorded voicemail message to the F T module and to one or more locations in the Cache and or MSERV e.g. a mail box that correspond to the user. Alternatively the voicemail message may be transferred before the application terminates the call.

As further described below a FBUI is an alternative mechanism for delivering the rough transcription and voicemail audio file via an email system. System includes a networked environment that provides integrated voicemail and email messaging through the use of ICS . Networked environment includes a LAN that couples to components of ICS networked environment and a messaging server environment . ICS includes CS IM and FBUI but is not so limited. FBUI is further presented to a user e.g. USER Z via one or more processor based devices devices such as PDA .

Messaging server environment includes the MSERV and a Database but is not so limited. The LAN couples to any number of other networks and using any of a variety of communication protocols where the networks and may be of the same or of different types. As an example the networks may include a public communications network and a private communications network . Private communications network may be a PBX coupled to the LAN of the enterprise network for example. Networks and allow for information transfers between client devices that are local to networked environment and client devices that are external to networked environment . The client devices may alternatively be referred to as user devices and .

In an embodiment in which networked environment is an enterprise network ICS replaces the voicemail server typically found in enterprise networks with at least one CS but embodiments are not so limited. CS is coupled to the private communications network e.g. PBX of each network enterprise. While one CS is shown in this example system the enterprise network may include multiple CSs coupled to enterprise network in an N 1 configuration where N is any number 1 2 . . . X.

For security reasons communication to and from the CS is restricted in an embodiment. The CS communicates with the IM servers the private communications network other CSs and selected client devices. According to an embodiment of the invention communications with the CS may be restricted to network components having particular known addresses. Additionally or alternatively communications with the CS may require authentication by passcode or other security measures for certain kinds of access for example for access by the administrator. Security may also or alternatively be encrypted and or provided by requiring a physical connection between the CS and other component such as in the case of a connection between a CS and a private communications network through a direct cable connection. Restricted communication to and from the CS provides confidentiality of voicemails and voicemail transcriptions as described herein.

The CS via the FBUI generally provides a form to a client device from a first server e.g. messaging server MSERV etc. via a network connection. The form includes data or code that when executed by the receiving client device results in presentation of a FBUI on a display of the client device. The FBUI includes a number of buttons or icons that allow a user to select an action on an item via a second server e.g. communication server CS etc. where the item is stored on the first and or second servers and the first and second servers are different servers. The FBUI of an embodiment uses a web browser embedded in the form as the means for coupling and or communicating with a corresponding browser control of the second server. Communications between the client device and the second server thus avoid security and or other network policy issues that would prohibit the client device from communicating with the second server via the network coupling between the client device and the first server.

As described above the FBUI operates as a form based messaging interface to transfer a first message e.g. voicemail message to a messaging server e.g. MSERV from a communication server e.g. CS via a first coupling e.g. IM . The messaging server generates a second message e.g. email message in response to a type of the first message and transfers the second message to a client device via a second coupling e.g. LAN . The type of the first message is specified by the communication server using properties on the message that identify the message as a Voicemail Type VMT message. The second message is of a different type and includes data of the first message but is not so limited. The communication server also transfers to the client device form data that corresponds to the first message. The client device uses the form data to establish a third coupling e.g. browser link between the client device and the communication server. The user may direct actions on the first message from the client device via the third coupling using the form data.

The ICS of an embodiment provides the FBUI to a user via his her local or external client device. The FBUI is provided to the client device through the use of a FBUI Form where the structure of the FBUI Form conforms to the message structure of the messaging server environment. For example when the messaging server environment includes the use of Microsoft Exchange and Microsoft Outlook the FBUI Form is generated to comply with Microsoft formats as appropriate to Exchange and Outlook

Information for generation of the FBUI Form is provided to the messaging server environment by the CS via the IM and the code used for FBUI Form generation is hosted by the MSERV in an embodiment. The FBUI Form of an embodiment includes code that generates information of the FBUI display as well as the buttons of the display. The FBUI Form further includes an embedded browser control for use in establishing communications between the client device displaying the FBUI Form and a web server e.g. CS IM other server for example. The embedded browser control therefore allows the host client device to couple and communicate with a server that is different from the MSERV via a communication channel that is outside the enterprise network LAN. Thus the FBUI Form enables a communication channel between the local client device currently executing the form and a component like the CS and or IM in spite of network policy issues that otherwise might prohibit the client device from communicating outside the enterprise network message infrastructure.

Using the FBUI a user can access view and take a variety of actions on his her voicemail messages within an email framework of the host enterprise network system. As an example when the CS of an embodiment receives a voicemail message it transfers the voicemail message to the MSERV as described above. In transferring the voicemail message to the MSERV the CS specifies properties on the message that identify the message as a Voicemail Type VMT message. The message is received and stored by the MSERV as a VMT message using the same storage and retrieval structure as used with other message types like email messages.

At such time as a user wishes to access his her messages via his her client device the active message browser of the client device receives the VMT message along with any other mail messages currently stored in his her electronic mail box. The message browser corresponds to the message structure of the messaging server environment e.g. Outlook in a Microsoft environment . Upon receipt of the message the message browser identifies the message as a VMT message. As the code that implements the FBUI Form is stored on the MSERV implementation of the functionality and or features associated with the FBUI Form uses communication between the user s client device and the MSERV via the LAN. For example the client device message browser requests the FBUI Form from the MSERV in response to identifying a message as a VMT message because this is the form that corresponds to the VMT message type. The MSERV transfers the FBUI Form to the requesting client device and the client device message browser launches the form in response to the user selecting a VMT message for viewing.

The message browser uses data or code of the FBUI Form to display the FBUI on the user s client device. is a sample FBUI as displayed on a client device under an embodiment. The FBUI includes three areas and that present information to a user. The areas include a folder area a contents area and a function information area but are not limited to these areas as the UIs of alternative embodiments may present any number and or type of areas. In alternative embodiments all three areas may be presented at the same time as shown in FBUI or various subsets of the three areas may be presented at the same time in various combinations.

Folder area presents one or more folders to which the user has access via the FBUI and the client device. The INBOX may contain a list of voicemail messages in the same listing as other messages including email messages. Alternatively the Inbox may include a subfolder VOICE MESSAGES which includes the voicemail messages and selection of this folder results in the presentation of voicemail messages of the user s mail box in the contents area .

The contents area generally presents the contents of the folder selected using the folder area . As an example the contents area presents information corresponding to any number of voicemail messages in the user s mail box when the INBOX or VOICE MESSAGES folder is selected. Contents area allows the user to select a particular voicemail message by placing a cursor on VOICE MESSAGE INFORMATION for example. By double clicking a message in the contents area or otherwise indicating to the message browser to display a voice message function information area is displayed.

Function information area of FBUI presents a rough transcription as shown. Function information area further presents one or more voicemail action buttons also referred to herein as buttons each of which represents an action the user may select for a voicemail message. In this example the VOICE MESSAGES folder is selected and selection of a message in contents area allows the user to take an action on the selected message using the buttons shown. Placing the cursor of contents area on a particular message and choosing an action on the selected message with a button therefore invokes operations on the message via components of the ICS e.g. CS Cache IM . The buttons of an embodiment include a Play on Phone button a Get Refined Transcript button a Call Sender button a Reply by Voicemail button and a Forward by Voicemail button but the embodiment is not limited to this same number of buttons or to buttons offering the same functionality.

In other embodiments presentation of areas or information of the FBUI may vary in many ways. For example in one embodiment the action buttons appear after the user has selected for example by double clicking a particular voice message from the contents area . The action buttons may also appear when the user right clicks on a particular voice message in the contents area .

The folder area may also include a subfolder VOICE MESSAGE SYSTEM under the Public Folder. As such the VOICE MESSAGE SYSTEM folder may not be considered an actual folder but instead a uniform resource locator URL that when selected sends an HTTP request to a web server and launches displays an ICS browser inside the client device message browser. The web server may for example be a component of the CS and or IM but is not so limited. The ICS browser is an embedded or hidden browser that displays function information area in the area of the client device message browser where emails would typically appear and the voicemail messages are displayed in function information area .

As an example function information area is displayed in the contents area of an embodiment. Function information area may be served from the IM and may contain any information related to the voice messaging system that is user specific. In one embodiment function information area displays a user login prompt where the user enters the user name and PIN code. Subsequently the system displays the user s configuration date such as PIN code attendant extension greeting type and other applicable information.

The hidden browser enables an HTTP link and communications with the IM for example which then brokers communications via HTTP with the CS via the CS Web Server for example. Therefore while typical messaging servers and LANs use security policies that restrict the use of special code in form data use of the hidden browser embedded in a form structure that is native to the host system overcomes this restriction because the browser is not detected or considered as special code. Use of the hidden browser thus supports communication with the corresponding browser control in the CS and or the IM thereby allowing the integration of voicemail messaging provided by the CS with the email messaging system of the enterprise network

A voicemail message in the ICS is generally any message created using a client device generating an audio stream. A voicemail message is also any voice type message such as a message created using the Reply by Voice Message and Forward by Voice Message buttons of the FBUI. An email is any message created using buttons of a host mail message system that function to generate a reply message or to forward a message in response to receipt of a message even if replying or forwarding a voicemail message. The ICS of an embodiment presents a voicemail message to a user in an email message system using the FBUI as the presentation form.

The components of the ICS described above include any collection of computing components and devices operating together. The components of the ICS can also be components or subsystems within a larger computer system or network. The ICS components can also be coupled among any number of components not shown for example other buses controllers memory devices and data input output I O devices in any number of combinations. Further components of the ICS can be distributed among any number combination of other processor based components. Further details of a system including an ICS and an FBUI and suitable for embodying the invention claimed herein is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 053 271 filed Feb. 7 2005 and titled Integrated Multi Media Communication System which is incorporated herein by reference.

Aspects of the systems and methods described herein may be implemented as functionality programmed into any of a variety of circuitry including programmable logic devices PLDs such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable array logic PAL devices electrically programmable logic and memory devices and standard cell based devices as well as application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Some other possibilities for implementing aspects of the system include microcontrollers with memory such as electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM embedded microprocessors firmware software etc. Furthermore aspects of the system may be embodied in microprocessors having software based circuit emulation discrete logic sequential and combinatorial custom devices fuzzy neural logic quantum devices and hybrids of any of the above device types. Of course the underlying device technologies may be provided in a variety of component types e.g. metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET technologies like complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS bipolar technologies like emitter coupled logic ECL polymer technologies e.g. silicon conjugated polymer and metal conjugated polymer metal structures mixed analog and digital etc.

It should be noted that the various functions or processes disclosed herein may be described as data and or instructions embodied in various computer readable media in terms of their behavioral register transfer logic component transistor layout geometries and or other characteristics. Computer readable media in which such formatted data and or instructions may be embodied include but are not limited to non volatile storage media in various forms e.g. optical magnetic or semiconductor storage media and carrier waves that may be used to transfer such formatted data and or instructions through wireless optical or wired signaling media or any combination thereof. Examples of transfers of such formatted data and or instructions by carrier waves include but are not limited to transfers uploads downloads e mail etc. over the Internet and or other computer networks via one or more data transfer protocols e.g. HTTP FTP SMTP etc. . When received within a computer system via one or more computer readable media such data and or instruction based expressions of components and or processes under the system described may be processed by a processing entity e.g. one or more processors within the computer system in conjunction with execution of one or more other computer programs.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in a sense of including but not limited to. Words using the singular or plural number also include the plural or singular number respectively. Additionally the words herein hereunder above below and words of similar import refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. When the word or is used in reference to a list of two or more items that word covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above description of illustrated embodiments of the systems and methods is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the systems and methods to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the F T module are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the systems and methods as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. The teachings of the systems and methods provided herein can be applied to other processing systems and methods not only for the systems and methods described above.

The elements and acts of the various embodiments described above can be combined to provide further embodiments. These and other changes can be made to the systems and methods in light of the above detailed description.

In general in the following claims the terms used should not be construed to limit the systems and methods to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification and the claims but should be construed to include all processing systems that operate under the claims. Accordingly the systems and methods are not limited by the disclosure but instead the scope of the systems and methods is to be determined entirely by the claims.

While certain aspects of the systems and methods are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the systems and methods in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the systems and methods may be recited as embodied in machine readable medium other aspects may likewise be embodied in machine readable medium. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the systems and methods.

