---

title: Systems and methods for providing a multi-function search box for creating word pages
abstract: A multi-function search box on a word page is provided to enable a user to enter a word. The multi-function search box includes a text input control to provide text input functionality. The text input control is capable of suggesting a complete word based on a partially entered word. A dropdown display area is provided in the multi-function search box to display a list of words, every word therein contextually related to the fully entered or partially entered word. Another dropdown display area is provided to display contextually related options for a selected word in the list of contextually related words.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418141&OS=09418141&RS=09418141
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09418141
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070809
---
This Application is related to co pending 1 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 724 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Dynamic Page Creation 2 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 723 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Comments Aggregation and Carryover in Word Pages 3 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 721 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing Enhanced content Portability in a Word Page Module and 4 patent application Ser. No. 11 836 717 filed on Aug. 9 2007 entitled Systems and Methods for Providing a Persistent Navigation Bar in a Word Page each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention generally relates to displaying information related to a given word. More specifically but without limitation this invention relates to displaying a list of words and categories of content that are contextually related to a user entered word and generating a web page that is focused around a selected word or category from the list of words. The information in the word page is presented and organized to optimize user interactivity with the web page.

The computing industry has seen many advances in recent years and such advances have produced a multitude products and services. Internet websites are examples of products and services which are created to give users access to particular types of services data or searching capabilities. Today websites can be readily created by most individuals desiring to post information or provide access or connectivity to other data. Websites are also created updated and supported to provide constantly updated current event information news and other information. This data is highly managed and processed so that its presentation can be easily displayed on web browsers or other Internet connected devices.

Currently to date however the traditional web sites provide mostly unstructured and contextually unrelated information to a user. For example when a phrase is searched resulting web page typically displays many links to external websites. These links to external websites are typically selected to be displayed on the web page based on phrase matching criteria without any consideration for user interactivity and or contextual relationship with the searched phrase. Generally the user is forced to visit many external websites associated with presented links to find more information about the searched phrase.

Moreover when the user is entering a phrase to begin a search generally little to no assistance or suggestion is provided to help the user complete a contextually connected phrase. And if help or a suggestion is provided the help or suggestion is based on word match only rather than providing an intelligent suggestion including contextually related information about the entered word.

Broadly speaking the present invention fills these needs by providing a modular system that enables users to enter a word or to select a word from a list of dynamically generated and contextually related words.

In one example the list of contextually related words is generated from a multi function search box based on user entered words and may be continuously updated as the user continues entering each letter of the entered word. Unlike what is presently available e.g. a list of suggest words based on phrase or letter matching without any regard for context of the entered phrase the embodiments of present invention present a list of contextually related words. In one embodiment the list of words also presents suggested categories of content that are contextually related to the user entered word. One embodiment of the present invention enables generation and presentation of content related to one or more content types related to the user entered word or to the selected word. The content types are defined herein to be vertical types. A vertical type may define a specific type of media content such as movies music pictures games videos gossip etc. Each of the vertical types in one embodiment is presented in a page module. If more than one vertical type is presented in response to the entered then a webpage is created with two or more page modules and each page module may include the latest content for that vertical. Each vertical can then be navigated by users and users can further define different views or arrangements of the content in each module based on the received navigation of the user. Furthermore the word query when entered by the user e.g. through a multi function search box or other functional interface will define contextually related words that can also cause the generation of new modules for the webpage. The resulting web page is therefore dynamically generated and created as opposed to separate visits to disparate web pages that are pre defined or constructed for conventional searching and navigation. Consequently all searching and navigation occurs from within the webpage of page modules thus eliminating the need to perform external web searching. Further yet the dynamic generation and arrangement of page modules can be triggered by user defined search words. If the entered word is identified with some contextual category or categories the word is used to dynamically define a context. The context is thus used to define the type of content that will be presented in the page modules that will define the dynamically generated webpage.

Furthermore because the user is not guided properly through a display of contextually related words and categories of content to help the user explore interesting content the user would feel disconnected with the content browsing experience and may get exhausted from pointless information browsing during their search for more contextually related or connected information. Hence there is a need for methods and systems that enable users to browse contextually related words and categories of content and generate websites that intelligently obtain content either directly or contextually to the entered or selected word for a seamless presentation to users and to make the users more connected with the browsing experience.

In one embodiment a multi function search box on a word page is provided to enable a user to enter a word. The multi function search box includes a text input control to provide text input functionality. The text input control is capable of suggesting a complete word based on a partially entered word. A dropdown display area is provided in the multi function search box or entry field to display a list of words each contextually related to the fully entered or partially entered word. Another display area is provided to display contextually related options for a selected word in the list of contextually related words.

In another embodiment a computer implemented method of generating a word page from a user entered word in a multi function search box is disclosed. The user entered word is read from the multi function search box and a subject context for the user entered word is determined. A plurality of page modules related to the user entered word by the subject context are searched and each of the plurality of page modules are displayed on a display screen.

In yet another embodiment a computer implemented method of monetization of a word page based on a user entered word in a multi function search box is disclosed. In this method the user entered word from the multi function search box is read and a subject context for the user entered word is determined. A paid word for the user entered word by the subject context is retrieved. The paid word is related to the user entered word by advertisers.

The advantages of the present invention are numerous. Most notably the system and apparatus described herein provide the newest and context related choices for a partially or fully user entered word including categories of content for the user entered word in the multi function search box. The multi function search box enables users to quickly find what they are interested in and then dive deeper into any of the page modules that are created through the entering or selecting a word in the multi function search box.

Other aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings illustrating by way of example the principles of the present invention.

The figures are provided in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. The figures should not be construed as limiting the breath of the invention in any manner.

A system and apparatus for generating a list of words and categories of content that are contextually related to a partially or fully entered word in the multi functional search box on a word page is disclosed. A word page includes page modules that present content having specific context. Context can be defined based on types of media or categories with a type of media. In one embodiment a vertical defines a type of media such as music movies communication shopping gaming etc. Within each vertical further contextual categories can be defined. For instance within music a context can be defined for types of music each artist etc. Thus for purposes of clarity the degrees and granularity by which types of context can be broken up or organized can grow over time as further context definitions are generated for words. The word page as used herein is a web page that is constructed from one or more page modules. The page modules as noted above will each define a type of content such as movie related content music related content picture related content game related content video related content gossip related content etc. Although other interface control features can be used to enable word entry and analysis of an entered word for context the example shown herein is a multi function search box. The multi function search box is used to enter or select a word and that word will be used to rearrange construct or obtain contextually related content that will define the presentation data interactivity images etc. of specific page modules. Thus the word page is a contained page that dynamically changes depending on the selected or entered word. A word page is therefore not a search engine or search interface that triggers a search of web links or external websites. To the contrary the word page will contain or generate one or more page modules and the data that is presented in each of the page modules dynamically changes or is updated over time or based on the entered word in the multi function search box or the selection of specific words within a particular page module of the word page.

As used herein to be contextually related means that a particular word that may be entered by a user is related to other words or phrases. Other words or phrases may be related in terms of context and the context means that there is some weaving together of words in terms of meaning subject or a combination thereof. Thus words that are contextually related to other words or phrases may be connected in terms of coherence. Still further context can be thought of in terms of parts of a discourse that surround a word or passage and can throw light on the meaning of the entered word. Some words that are considered contextually related may be defined based on some descriptive interrelation dependence or condition based on a theme environment setting event group of similar media similar activities or combinations thereof.

In one example information retrieved for a user entered or selected word in the multi function search box is displayed in different types of page modules. For example music related content is displayed in a music module gossip related content is displayed in a gossip module and so on. Various types of standard page modules are provided to display a set of popular content types. Unlike traditional search engines that provide links to possible information about a searched phrase a web page e.g. word page is created for the entered word as defined in one embodiment. Furthermore the created word page provides content in a user friendly manner as opposed to providing raw links to external web sites or web resources. Moreover unlike traditional search engines that present links leading to possible unrelated information about a phrase the word page hosts information either directly or contextually related to the entered word.

The multi function search box has numerous functions. In one example the multi function search box generates a list of words that are either directly or contextually related to the user entered word. The list of words is generated and updated continuously as the user proceeds to enter each letter of the user entered word in the multi function search box. The multi function search box also suggests one or more complete words for a partially entered word in the multi function search box. In another example the multi function search box generates a list of content categories for a user entered word. Each category in the list of content categories is contextually related to the user entered word. In one embodiment the list of content categories is generated only if the entered word is an abstract word. In yet another example the multi function search box generates both the list of words and the list of content categories that are contextually related to the user entered word and both lists are displayed by the multi function search box.

In one embodiment content of the multi function search box are rearranged of updated based on user interactivity with the content of the multi function search box and page modules in the word page. For example if a user shows relatively greater interest in a particular type of content such as games movies etc. the content related to these particular types of content are elevated in the list of words and categories that are displayed by the multi function search box in response to the user entered word.

With this overview in mind the following figures will illustrate example structure and functionality of the multi function search box in word pages.

In one embodiment the favorite module is a special type of page module that is used for storing pointers or references to page modules that were previously marked as favorite . In another embodiment various user defined content or links to external resources media movie clips albums etc. may also be stored in the favorite module . In yet another embodiment the favorite module contains content specific to a particular user. Such content is added to the favorite module through user action. In yet another embodiment one or more page modules are generated for the entered word favorite . The page modules that are generated for the entered word favorite contain user s favorite content in one or more vertical category such as music movies events etc. User s favorite content in one embodiment is based on the logged in user s profile information including at least one of user s preferences age sexual orientation geographical location. In another embodiment if the user has not logged in user s content browsing pattern and interactivity with the page modules is stored in cookies or temporary files which are then used to generate or assemble user s favorite content in various vertical content categories. In yet another embodiment the generation of user s favorite content is based on a combination of user profile information and user s interactivity with the page modules during one or more prior word website browsing sessions.

As illustrated in word surrounded by page modules sponsored modules and favorite module signifies that a quest for information related to the word leads to generation of various types of page modules and sponsored modules each hosting a specific type of content. further illustrates that generation of the word page revolves around selection of the word i.e. information displayed through various page modules is focused on the selected word . For example selecting popular for word will generate a word page with the most popular content for each respective page module such as popular movie popular music popular celebrity popular fashion popular club etc. . A new word page including a different set of page modules is generated every time a new word is selected. Hence in above example when the selection changes from popular to newest a new word page including page modules such as newest movies newest music album newest car models etc. will be generated.

In one embodiment the system maintains a list of words and a list of appropriate page modules for various types of content related to each of the words in the list. In one embodiment words and page modules are maintained and updated by the information editors with the help of user s browsing patterns latest stories about various celebrities products etc. various topics that users may be interested in the latest news etc. Content are grouped in different categories such as content related to a particular subject or word suitable or liked to a particular segment of users. In one embodiment contents are regularly and continuously updated to keep up with the latest developments. In another embodiment various types of contents are scanned and obtained from various electronic media sources automatically based on context based search filters.

The title is used to display a title of content of a page module sponsored module or favorite module . Text displayed in the title is also a word i.e. the title is selectable by a user and such selection would also triggers a generation of a new word page focused around the word in the title . In one embodiment some of the commonly used titles are music movie latest gossip etc. Title is generally a topic name of content in the page module . For example a page module with title text music will have contents either directly or contextually related to music.

Still referring to because title is also a word that has its own context around it selecting the title will generate a new word page to display various page modules centered or focused around the word. For example in a word page focused around word Lindsay Lohan that contains a module named Music i.e. Music is the title of the page module featuring the music of Lindsay Lohan selecting or clicking on the title of Music page module would cause generation of a new word page now focused at music. This new word page will for instance have page modules focused at classical music newest music album heavy metal jazz etc. all centered around and focused at Music . Thus as used herein a word does not have to be a single word but can be a set of words to define a person place or thing. A word however is different than a phrase which may be in the form of a sentence. Therefore broadly speaking a word can be a single word or tight collection of words that convey context.

Thus cyclic generation of word pages that include only contextually relevant and highly focused information provide a higher degree of browsing experience because the user is not forced to jump from one website to another website in search of relevant content.

In one embodiment the word bar is provided to display other words related to the subject matter of the page module . Word bar may include words that are contextually related to the subject matter of content of the page module . For example the word bar in a scene module may contain words Clubbing Sunday Split etc. because these words are contextually related to the topic of page module .

In one embodiment the word bar may also contain one or more sponsored words . Sponsored words are bought or paid for by advertisers and can be displayed in the word bar when a specified sponsoring criteria is met. In another embodiment the system identifies a sponsored word to be included in the word bar based on the user interest in a particular type of subject matter user s past browsing history user s like for a particular brand etc. Selecting a word in the word bar will generate a new word page to display page modules and optionally sponsored modules centered around and focused on the word selected through the word bar . Hence in this embodiment if a word page is generated around the word Celebrity in which a page module named Music is displayed the word N Sync would appear in the word bar . Selecting or clicking the word N Sync in the word bar will cause generation of a new word page. This new word page will for instance have page modules such as Music Latest Gossip etc. all centered or focused around the word N Sync .

In one embodiment a word bar can be used for targeted advertising campaigns. For example the marketer of the brand Pepsi through a advertising relationship relates the word N Sync with the word Pepsi . Hence in a word page centered around word N Sync that includes a Latest page module word bar in the Latest page module may include a word Pepsi . Selecting word Pepsi on the word bar would generate a new page focused on brand Pepsi and including content provided or specified by the advertiser. In one example this sponsored content also includes content that is unrelated to the sponsored brand e.g. a word page focused on Pepsi may include page modules to enable presentation of clips from the latest movies or latest music albums .

In order to make sponsored content unobtrusive factors such as visual appeal motion and minimal contribution to clutter etc. are considered. Hence at a first glance of the word page advertising seems to be missing but when a user interacts with any of page modules sponsored content are intermixed with content of page modules . In one embodiment this mixing of sponsored content with content of page modules is done without jeopardizing contextual relationship of the entered word with content of page modules .

In one embodiment comments control has two states i.e. a closed state and an expanded state. In closed state comments control shows a number referring to a number of comments written by the users for a page module that includes a particular type of content focused on a particular word . Comments control may be expanded by selecting or clicking on the word. In the expanded form comments control displays a full text of comments and replies to these comments. In one embodiment a comment may be replied a reply to a comment may be replied and so on. The comments and replies are laid out for easy identification between a comment and a reply.

A comment or a reply or a reply to a reply may be in textual form an audio form or in an audio visual or audio video form. The expanded view of comments control provides functionality to control the audio and visual aspects of audio or audio visual comments through volume and video controls provided therein.

Referring now to which illustrates a multi function search box in a word page. The multi function search box includes a text edit control to enable the entering of a word. The text edit control is coupled with a local or remote database or data store to quickly find out one or more possible completed words as letters of a word are entered in the text edit control . A scroll control is provided to enable scrolling among all suggested words for an unfinished entered word in the text edit box . In one embodiment the scroll control is also used to open a dropdown display area to display suggested and related words and categories of content for an entered word .

Still referring to in one embodiment the dropdown display area is divided into two sections a first section and a second section . The first section displays one or more suggested words for a partially entered word or a misspelled word in the text edit box . These suggested words in one embodiment are defined for a type of context. The second section in one example displays a list words that are contextually related to the user entered word. The second section in another example displays a combination of contextually related words and content categories. For example the first section may display the word Justin Timberlake and the second section may display the words SEXYBACK song video by Justin Timberlake CAMERON DIAZ dating Justin Timberlake NSYNC Justin s band PHOTOS . . . of or related to Justin Timberlake VIDEOS . . . of or related to Justin Timberlake etc. In this example words such as SEXYBACK and CAMERON DIAZ are words that are contextually related to the entered word . Furthermore words such as PHOTOS and VIDEOS are categories of content that related to the entered word .

Still referring to in one embodiment the multi function search box uses adaptive personalization process to display the content of the dropdown display area based on user interactivity with the words and the content generated for these words in the word pages. The user interactivity in one embodiment also considers user s interest or a lack thereof in particular types of content. For example if a particular user seldom views photos in the word page or seldom selects this category in the dropdown display area the multi function search box may push photos category down in the list or remove it altogether. In another embodiment the adaptive personalization process considers user s age gender demographic location education level etc. to select content of the dropdown display area .

Still referring to the word page provides sign in and sign up controls to enable users to log in or register with the website for the first time or at a later visit respectively. One of the purposes of enabling users to sign in is to allow the adoptive personalization engine to collect data related to users browsing pattern interests age gender education level demographic location etc. In one embodiment a cookie store is used to track and record browsing patterns on a particular computer system. In yet another embodiment both cookie tracking and sign in process is used by the adoptive personalization process to tailor content of the page modules to the interests of the users.

Still referring to in one embodiment various filter options for a selected word or category in the dropdown display area are retrieved from one or more connected databases or one or more configured external sources of such information. In one embodiment these filter options for each word and category are maintained manually by information editors. In another embodiment the filter options are assembled automatically from the information contained in one or more connected databases or other types of information sources with the use of one or more computer implemented filtering logic.

In one embodiment the database or a group of databases contains all content necessary to generate a word page from an entered word . In another embodiment database or a group of databases may contain links or references to external sources from where information may be retrieved and formatted for displaying in page modules and sponsored modules . Comments and replies to comments related to specific objects such as a picture part of the picture a video a quote an event etc. on page modules and sponsored modules are also stored in databases along with a relationship of a comment to an object to which the comment relates.

Text and media directly and contextually related to the entered word is retrieved from the database or a group of databases. A media includes movies videos audios audio video still pictures or any other type of non textually visual presentations. Based on the type of media and text a page module layout based on the subject matter of the retrieved data is identified . The page module layout is populated with the retrieved text and media to form a specific type of page module or sponsored module . The system continues looking for relevant data to generate page modules in the word page . Generation of word page ends when system no longer finds contextually relevant data in the database or in the group of databases or in one or more external sources.

In one embodiment when database does not contain content related to entered word the system tries to retrieve relevant information from a configured set of external sources through one of more commercially available internet search engines such as Yahoo Search.

With the above embodiments in mind it should be understood that the invention may employ various computer implemented operations involving data stored in computer systems. These operations are those requiring physical manipulation of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as producing identifying determining or comparing.

Any of the operations described herein that form part of the invention are useful machine operations. The invention also relates to a device or an apparatus for performing these operations. The apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes such as the carrier network discussed above or it may be a general purpose computer selectively activated or configured by a computer program stored in the computer. In particular various general purpose machines may be used with computer programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may be more convenient to construct a more specialized apparatus to perform the required operations.

The programming modules page modules and subsystems described in this document can be implemented using a programming language such as Flash JAVA C C C Visual Basic JAVA Script PHP XML HTML etc. or a combination of programming languages. Commonly available application programming interface API such as HTTP API XML API and parsers etc. are used in the implementation of the programming modules. As would be known to those skilled in the art that the components and functionality described above and elsewhere in this document may be implemented on any desktop operating system which provides a support for a display screen such as different versions of Microsoft Windows Apple Mac Unix X Windows Linux etc. using any programming language suitable for desktop software development.

The programming modules and ancillary software components including configuration file or files along with setup files required for installing the widget dock and related functionality as described in this document are stored on a computer readable medium. Any computer medium such as a flash drive a CD ROM disk an optical disk a floppy disk a hard drive a shared drive and an storage suitable for providing downloads from connected computers could be used for storing the programming modules and ancillary software components. It would be known to a person skilled in the art that any storage medium could be used for storing these software components so long as the storage medium can be read by a computer system.

The invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices microprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributing computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a network.

The invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium is any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include hard drives network attached storage NAS read only memory random access memory CD ROMs CD Rs CD RWs DVDs Flash magnetic tapes and other optical and non optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over a network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code is stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

While this invention has been described in terms of several preferable embodiments it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon reading the specifications and studying the drawings will realize various alternation additions permutations and equivalents thereof. It is therefore intended that the present invention includes all such alterations additions permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

