---

title: Low-profile signal device and method for providing color-coded signals
abstract: A low-profile signal device is provided having a plurality of light emitters disposed on at least one support member, the plurality of light emitters configured to emit light in a plurality of colors that indicate one or more predefined conditions; a housing substantially enclosing the at least one support member; a signal interface coupled to the plurality of light emitters and configured to selectively activate light emitters from the plurality of light emitters in response to a received control signal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07880637&OS=07880637&RS=07880637
owner: Seegrid Corporation
number: 07880637
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070611
---
The present inventive concepts relate to signal devices and methods that provide color coded signals.

Visual signal devices are widely used in industrial applications such as warehouses loading docks manufacturing facilities or other settings where a machine status indicator safety indicator or alarm indicator is provided in the form of color coded signals. For example signal tower lights also referred to as stack lights can be placed on a forklift tugger pallet jack order picker or other manned vehicle or equipment to provide a status indication in the form of a color coded signal. Such color coded signals can be useful to those operating or in proximity to such equipment for providing safety and status indications. In addition to manned mobile equipment such signal towers can also be used on stationary equipment for the same status and safety purposes.

Typical signal tower lights include a group of color emitting modules stacked one on top of the other. Each module emits a single color. Each module comprises a colored lens permitting a corresponding color to be emitted when the module is activated or turned on . The combination of colors in a signal tower light are chosen based on a user s needs and the signals to be communicated wherein the colors of the modules are chosen to indicate the existence of possible predefined conditions.

For example as illustrated in a five level signal tower light comprises five modules each module having a colored lens for emitting a single color based on the color of the lens. As an example module can include a red lens module can include a yellow lens module can include a green lens etc. In this manner each color or combination of individual colors can be associated with a predefined condition. For example the red module when turned on can indicate a warning or alarm as a first predefined condition i.e. stop. The yellow module when turned on can indicate caution as a second predefined condition as another example. The colors are typically chosen as a function of the equipment or environment or both. The conventional signal tower light therefore is a relatively tall and narrow stack of colored lights such as the signal tower illustrated in . The more modules that are added to the stack the taller the signal tower light.

Signal towers such as that of can be mounted to stationary or mobile equipment. To do so signal tower is often mounted on a pole and a base arrangement to improve visibility. In such instances the increased height of the signal tower light is an acceptable trade off relative to any increased vulnerability to the light or other property created by such additional height. That is even if not ideal in order to achieve the correct number of lights for the relevant conditions being monitored or for desired visibility a certain amount of height could be unavoidable. In particular when mounted to mobile equipment there is the challenge of mounting the lights high enough that they are clearly visible and low enough that they can fit through doorways. Also while shows a five level stack light on mobile equipment it is also common to mount a single light on a pole. Nevertheless even when there is only a single light the height issues remain.

In accordance with a first aspect of the invention there is provided a low profile signal device comprising a plurality of light emitters disposed on at least one support member a housing substantially enclosing the at least one support member and a signal interface coupled to the plurality of light emitters. The plurality of light emitters is configured to emit light in a plurality of colors that indicate one or more predefined conditions. The signal interface is configured to selectively activate light emitters from the plurality of light emitters in response to a received control signal.

The support member can be a circuit board having circuit paths formed therein connecting the plurality of light emitters to the signal interface.

The signal device can comprise a first group of light emitters coupled to a top side of the support member and a second group of light emitters coupled to a bottom side of the support member.

The first group of emitters can be configured to provide a first set of colors and the second group of emitters is configured to provide a second set of color different from the first set of colors.

The signal device can comprise a controller coupled to the signal interface and configured to generate the control signal in response to at least one stimuli indicating the existence of a condition from the one or more predefined conditions.

The housing can comprise an outer member surrounding a periphery of the support member and can further comprise at least one of a top member disposed over a top side of the support member and peripherally coupled to a top portion of the outer member and a bottom member disposed below a bottom side of the support member and peripherally coupled to a bottom portion of the outer member.

The housing can form a waterproof or water resistant enclosure around the support member and the plurality of light emitters.

The signal device can comprise an audio alarm configured to generate a sound from a set of predefined sounds each sound indicating one of the predefined conditions.

The signal device can comprise a second plurality of light emitters disposed on a second at least one support member the second plurality of light emitters can be configured to emit light in a second plurality of colors a second housing substantially enclosing the second at least one support member and configured to couple to the first housing and a second signal interface can be coupled to the second plurality of light emitters and configured to selectively activate light emitters from the second plurality of light emitters in response to the received control signal.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a low profile signal device comprises a plurality of light emitting diodes LEDs disposed on at least one circuit board a housing substantially enclosing the at least one circuit board and a signal interface coupled to the plurality of LEDs. The plurality of LEDs are configured to emit light in a plurality of colors that indicate one or more predefined conditions. The signal interface is configured to selectively activate LEDs from the plurality of light emitters in response to a received control signal.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided a method of indicating the existence of one or more predefined conditions. The method comprises configuring a signal device with a plurality of light emitters to emit light in a plurality of colors. The method further comprises defining a set of predefined conditions and translating the set of predefined conditions into a corresponding set of control signals. The method further comprises in response to the existence of a predefined condition from the set of predefined conditions generating a corresponding control signal from the set of control signals. The method further comprises generating a light signal representing the predetermined condition by applying the control signal to at least some light emitters from the plurality of light emitters.

The method further comprises substantially enclosing the plurality of light emitters in a housing wherein a width of the housing is greater than a height of the housing.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention there is provided method of making a low profile signal device. The method comprises coupling a plurality of light emitters to at least one support member the plurality of light emitters configured to emit light in a plurality of colors that indicate one or more predefined conditions. The method further comprises substantially enclosing the at least one support member with a housing. The method further comprises coupling a signal interface to the plurality of light emitters the signal interface configured to selectively activate light emitters from the plurality of light emitters in response to a received control signal.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. can be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

In the embodiment of the low profile signal device comprises a housing configured to support a support member on which a set of light emitters are mounted. In this embodiment the light emitters are light emitting diodes LEDs and the support member is a circuit board. Housing supports and maintains the circuit board with LEDs mounted thereon. The LEDs can be single color LEDs or multi color LEDs i.e. LEDs capable of emitting more than one color. The circuit board can be a single layer or multi layer circuit board.

In the illustrative embodiment a width w of the low profile signal device is greater than its height h. In other embodiments the width w can be reduced to be closer to the height h. In the embodiment of h is less than about 1 inch and w is up to about 7 inches and the light emitters are configured to collectively emit up to about 8 colors. But h and w are not limited to such dimensions in other embodiments and more than 8 colors is possible. In any of the various possible configurations a low profile signal device in accordance with this disclosure provides multiple light colors in a single housing or stage unlike conventional signal tower lights. This is significant departure from conventional signal tower lights as demonstrated by signal tower of .

In this embodiment the height of low profile signal device is less than the height of one stage of a conventional signal tower light while being capable of emitting more than one color. As a result a low profile signal device in accordance with this disclosure can indicate a greater number of predefined conductions by providing a greater number of light signals with significantly less height. As an additional result low profile signal device is significantly less vulnerable to being damaged and particularly in the case of mobile equipment is less likely to cause damage. For example the low profile signal device is particularly useful in many industrial applications for example in warehouses loading docks and manufacturing facilities where the low profile signal device can be mounted on a tugger pallet jack or order picker as examples or other mobile equipment and where an observer can visually identify a color that is emitted from the light emitters indicating a specific condition.

Housing can take any of a variety of forms. However in any of its forms housing allows light from LEDs to be externally viewable. In housing is substantially disk shaped having an outer member a top member and a bottom member . In this embodiment outer member includes a clear tinted colored translucent semi transparent or transparent wall or any combination thereof that permits light to pass through for example for external determination of the color signals being produced by the LEDs . Here the outer member is preferably composed of one or more rigid materials that permit the passage of light for example one or more of plastic fiberglass glass or the like. In other embodiments outer member can define openings through which the light from LEDs is emitted. In that case the remaining portions of outer member need not be configured to transmit light.

In the illustrative embodiment top member of housing is comprised of a rigid material configured to couple with outer member . Top member can thereby be configured as a cover that substantially encloses and protects circuit board and LEDs . Top member can be coupled to outer member in any of a variety of manners e.g. with screws or bolts glue or by a threaded interface. In other embodiments top member can be integral with outer member forming a single combined component.

In some embodiments top member or housing generally can be configured to accept the mounting of another low profile signal device e.g. in a stacked arrangement. In such a case a stacked arrangement of low profile signal device provides significantly more signal color options and combination than the prior art signal tower lights with significantly less height.

Bottom member of housing can be configured to facilitate mounting to either mobile or stationary equipment by any of a variety of mechanisms. Such mechanism could be mounted by adhesion e.g. glue or magnet or fastening with screws or bolts as a couple of examples. There is no inherent limit on the manners of mounting the low profile signal device .

In the illustrative embodiment bottom member is comprised of a rigid material configured to couple with outer member . Outer member can be coupled to bottom member in any of a variety of manners e.g. with screws or bolts glue or by a threaded interface. In other embodiments bottom member can be integral with outer member forming a single combined component.

In the illustrative embodiment circuit board has a circular shape and is mounted within the confines of housing . The circuit board can be a commercial grade circuit board such as a printed circuit board PCB to which the light emitters are attached. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art circuit board and low profile signal device need not be circular nor do they necessarily need to emit light in all directions. For example the footprint of the low profile signal device could be square rectangular pie shaped semi circular oval hexagonal octagonal and so on. Light emitters can be attached to one or both sides of the circuit board . In the illustrative embodiment LEDs are mounted peripherally to both sides of circuit board i.e. a top side and a bottom side.

While show a single circuit board in other embodiments such as that in more than one circuit board having light emitters disposed thereon can be included within housing . provides a side view of such a low profile signal device which is substantially the same as low profile device of . However low profile signal device comprises multiple here circuit boards A and B with light emitters mounted on each in an illustrative form. Thus multiple circuit boards can be disposed with housing and light emitters can be attached to each side of each of the multiple circuit boards.

Returning to in one embodiment the edge of the circuit board is attached to an inner wall of the outer member . In another embodiment the circuit board in maintained within housing without contacting outer member .

In another embodiment the outer member is formed of a plurality of pieces and comprises a first outer member that is affixed to a peripheral edge of the bottom side of the circuit board and a second outer member that is affixed to a peripheral edge of a top side of the circuit board . Thus the first outer member and second outer member substantially sandwich the peripheral edge of circuit board in such an embodiment. In such a case top member and bottom member can optionally be attached to the first outer member and second outer member respectively. In another embodiment the first outer member and the bottom member can be integral to form a single component. And the second outer member and top member can be integral to form a single component. In this manner the combination of the first outer member second outer member top member and bottom member can substantially enclose the circuit board and light emitters positioned thereon.

In the illustrative embodiment circuit board is configured with multiple signal paths formed to provide power signals to LEDs . For example all LEDs of the same color or type can be connected to a common signal path and receive the same signal simultaneously. The signal powers the corresponding LEDs to generate the emitted light. The power can come from any known form of power source whether internal or external to the low profile signal device e.g. a battery.

A signal interface can be formed on or connected to circuit board . The interface can include a set of wires or a standard plug or connector used in the electrical arts which provides a mechanism for getting power and or control signals to circuit board for selectively turning on one or more of LEDs . In one embodiment a controller see could be mounted on the circuit board and configured to receive signals from sensors configured to determine the existence of a predetermined condition for which LEDs should be turned on. The controller could be configured to apply power to the LEDs from the LEDs as needed to generate the light signal corresponding to the sensed predetermined condition. In another embodiment the controller is not part of low profile signal device . Rather the sensors and controller are elsewhere e.g. integral with the equipment to which the low profile signal device is mounted. In this latter case interface can be a passive device configured to provide signals to LEDs from the plurality of LEDs via corresponding signal paths formed on circuit board as they are received from the controller .

LEDs are positioned on the circuit board and proximate to the interior of outer member . LEDs are oriented to selectively emit through outer member one or more colors or color combinations from a plurality of available colors. In this manner when the light emitters are activated or turned on at least one color indicating at least one predefined condition is emitted by the light emitters through outer member . In other words the light emitters are configured to selectively emit colors or color combinations or patterns that indicate the existence of a predetermined condition.

As mentioned above LEDs can be single or multi color LEDs or there can be a combination of the foregoing. In the illustrative embodiment LEDs are mounted on a top side and on a bottom side of circuit board . On the top side the LEDs can include one or more groups of single color LEDs e.g. red and green LEDs disposed in an alternating fashion. Similarly on the bottom side the LEDs can include one or more other groups of LEDs e.g. yellow and blue also disposed in alternating fashion. Or the bottom side could have the same color LEDs has is on the top side of the circuit board . The actual selection of LEDs whether single color or multi color will depend on the signaling needs of the application and environment e.g. tugger or pallet jack in a warehouse . There is no inherent limitation in this regard.

Additionally patterning of light emissions from LEDs can provide another mechanism for communicating a distinct predefined condition. For example in various embodiments the LEDs can be steady or flashing or a combination of both. In another embodiment a group of LEDs can be configured to emit a color in a sequential manner e.g. rotating manner or an alternating manner e.g. red yellow red yellow . . . . There is no inherent limitation in this regard.

The light emitters are coupled to at least one of the top side and the bottom side of circuit board and are oriented with respect to the circuit board to emit at least one color. The light emitters are preferably equally positioned about the periphery of the circuit board and oriented to emit light through at least the outer member . In other configurations the light emitters can emit light through the top member and or the bottom member. Each light emitter emits at least one color. The color or colors being emitted by the light emitters are generated in response to one or more signals corresponding to at least one predefined condition generally referred to herein as a control signal .

Assuming a controller was configured to implement color coded assignments of Table 1 for the indicated predetermined conditions for a robotic vehicle used in a factory or warehouse specific LEDs from the plurality of LEDs would be selectively turned on when an indicated predefined condition exists e.g. is sensed. In the simplest form coding and signal generation mechanisms used with prior art signal towers can also be used to drive the LEDs of the low profile signal device .

In another embodiment the housing need not include one or both of the top member and the bottom member whereby the light emitters are substantially surrounded or encircled by the outer member but are not enclosed by the top member and or bottom member .

In the above embodiments the outer member top member and bottom member substantially surround one or more circuit boards each circuit board having a top side and a bottom side to which the plurality of light emitters can be attached. In this manner the outer member top member and bottom member can collectively enclose light emitters . Alternatively the light emitters can be positioned on a peripheral edge of the circuit board wherein the outer member is either omitted in whole or part or is positioned between the light emitters and a central region or point of the low profile signal device e.g. a center of the circuit board .

In this embodiment the housing has a dome shaped top member and a disc shaped bottom member . Bottom member can be substantially similar to the bottom member of . Housing can optionally include outer member . In embodiments where outer member is not included top member can directly couple bottom member .

As with the embodiments above circuit board can peripherally attach to housing or can otherwise be maintained within housing such that the housing surrounds the light emitters and light is emitted by the light emitters through a light transmittable portion of the housing . Alternatively the light emitters can be positioned on a peripheral edge of the circuit board wherein an opening is formed in housing or outer member if included through which light is emitted or housing or outer member if included is positioned between the light emitters and a central region or point of the low profile signal device e.g. a center of the circuit board .

The top member and or the bottom member of the support member can include a coupling not shown that enables the low profile signal device to be attached to another low profile signal device or to the surface of a stationary object or a mobile object. In one embodiment the coupling is a magnetic surface of the top member and or bottom member which enables the signal device to be coupled to a conductive surface of another signal device or a stationary or mobile object.

In various embodiments the low profile signal device can include a coupling configured to mount the device to any of a variety of types of surfaces equipment of apparatuses. For example the low profile signal device can be configured for mounting to a pole or other base that permits top bottom or side surface mounting e.g. to a wall or side surface of a machine . When attached to a pole or mounting base the device can be attached to a first end of a pole or mounting base and the other end of the pole or mounting base can be fixedly attached to the surface of the equipment. In various embodiments the bottom member e.g. of the device housing e.g. can also serve as a mounting base as described above.

The signal device can further comprise an optional audio indicator see that is configured to generate a sound in addition to emitting color lights corresponding to a set of predefined conditions. In such embodiments the predefined conditions indicated by the sounds are preferably related to the conditions indicated by the emitted colors of the light emitters . As an example a control signal generated by a controller and received by the signal interface can apply one or more control signals to both the light emitters and the audio indicator. The audio indicator can take to form of for example a bell siren tone horn whistle or any computer generated sound.

In some embodiments a signal device can comprise multiple low profile signal devices that are each stacked on each other along a vertical axis. In such embodiments each low profile signal device can receive control signals from a common controller and receive power from a common power source. Each low profile signal device in the signal device stack can generate one or more colors or multiple signal devices can generate the same color in response to one or more control signals. In accordance with such embodiments several colors can be accommodated with a stack at a fraction of the height of conventional stack lights.

In various embodiments the housing such as housing shown in and housing shown in can be composed of water proof or water resistant materials and can surround the circuit board and light emitters therein in a manner that insulates the circuit board and light emitters from moisture. In other embodiments the housing could also be configured to be shock chemical biological and or radiological resistant or proof.

Next as illustrated in step a set of predetermined conditions is defined and translated or coded into a set of corresponding control signals. Next as illustrated in step if one of the predetermined conditions is present or sensed one or more corresponding control signals are generated. Next as illustrated in step the generated control signal or signals are applied to the light emitters to generate a light signal representing the predetermined condition.

While embodiments of the low profile device have been described with respect to various manufacturing warehouse and loading docks it is not limited to such environments. In fact the low profile signal device can be used in any environment or application where a light emitting signal device requiring generation of a plurality of different signals is required. One such application is a traffic light which emits color coded signals in the form of a red light yellow light and green light or a combination of red yellow and green lights wherein a red light is associated with a first predefined condition i.e. stop a yellow light is associated with a second predefined condition i.e. caution or slow and a green light is associated with a third predefined condition i.e. go. A variety of other applications can be envisioned e.g. in fire alarm systems.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications can be made therein and that the invention or inventions can be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they can be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

