---

title: Systems and methods for controlling access to electronic records in an archives system
abstract: Systems and/or methods for controlling access to a plurality of records and/or documentary materials to be persisted in an electronic archives system are provided. The plurality of records and/or documentary material and all preserved information may be stored and accessed on the basis of user and/or object attributes. The user attributes include group affiliation, ownership, and state (e.g., workflow step and time of day). The object attributes include group affiliation, business role, clearance or access level, and network address from which access is requested. Access to the plurality of records and/or documentary material can be obtained both from within a single security domain as well as across more than one security domain.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08726351&OS=08726351&RS=08726351
owner: Fenestra Technologies Corporation
number: 08726351
owner_city: Germantown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070504
---
This application claims the benefit of Application Ser. No. 60 802 875 filed on May 24 2006 and Application Ser. No. 60 797 754 filed on May 5 2006 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This patent application discloses and claims subject inventions as defined by FAR 52.227 11 1997 . The U.S. Government has certain rights in the inventions disclosed and claimed herein.

The exemplary embodiments disclosed herein relate to systems and or methods for controlling access to electronic records in an archives system. More particularly the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein relate to a flexible and extensible way of controlling access to Automation Information System AIS objects e.g. data records software programs archived or AIS files software program functions based on subject i.e. user attributes e.g. group affiliation business role clearance or access level and network address from which access is requested and object attributes e.g. required clearance level required group affiliation ownership and state e.g. workflow step and time of day . The exemplary embodiments function both within a single security domain i.e. a Federation as well as across security domains Federations. The primary benefit of being able to operate across Federations is that it enables users who may only have an account in one Federation to discover the existence of records matching their search criteria in all Federations.

Since the earliest history various institutions e.g. governments and private companies alike have recorded their actions and transactions. Subsequent generations have used these archival records to understand the history of the institution the national heritage and the human journey. These records may be essential to support the efficiency of the institution to protect the rights of individuals and businesses and or to ensure that the private company or public corporation company is accountable to its employees shareholders and or that the Government is accountable to its citizens.

With the advance of technology into a dynamic and unpredictable digital era evidence of the acts and facts of institutions and the government and our national heritage are at risk of being irrecoverably lost. The challenge is pressing as time moves forward and technologies become obsolete the risks of loss increase. It will be appreciated that a need has developed in the art to develop securely accessible electronic records archives system and method especially but not only for the National Archives and Records Administration NARA in a system known as Electronic Records Archives ERA to resolve this growing problem in a way that is substantially obsolescence proof and policy neutral. While the exemplary embodiments described herein deal with respect to safeguarding the access to government records the described embodiments are not limited to archives systems applications nor to governmental applications and can also be applied to other large scale storage applications in addition to archives systems and for businesses charitable e.g. non profit and other institutions and entities.

Access control has previously been solved using Mandatory Access Controls MAC Discretionary Access Controls DAC Role Based Access Controls RBAC Content Based Access Controls CBAC or some combination of one or at most two of them. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 088 679 6 023 765 and 6 202 066.

Classical automated information system access controls were primarily implemented at the OS level with some control provided within applications. OS level controls consisted of Mandatory Access Controls MAC and Discretionary Access Controls DAC . Access control was used primarily to restrict access to information system files. MAC provided for the assignment of clearances to individuals subjects and clearance restrictions to files objects . The policy generally restricted access to objects with a clearance restriction of x to subjects who had clearances of x or higher. Individual read write execute etc. permissions were granted to groups into which subjects were assigned. DAC allowed for subjects to grant other subjects access to the objects they controlled. These access control methods did not allow the flexibility needed by modern automated information systems which resulted in the development of Role Based Access Control RBAC . RBAC implements access control based on the business role a subject plays in an organization. While RBAC represents an improvement over DAC or MAC it still lacks the flexibility needed by modern AISs.

A combination of MAC DAC RBAC and Content Based Access Control CBAC features are implemented in the exemplary embodiments to produce a flexible access control mechanism that provides maximum flexibility and efficiency.

An important aspect of the ERA is to preserve and to provide ready access to authentic electronic records of enduring value.

The ERA supports and flows from NARA s mission to ensure for the Citizen and the Public Servant for the President and the Congress and the Courts ready access to essential evidence. This mission facilitates the exchange of vital ideas and information that sustains the United States of America. NARA is responsible to the American people as the custodian of a diverse and expanding array of evidence of America s culture and heritage of the actions taken by public servants on behalf of American citizens and of the rights of American citizens. The core of NARA s mission is that this essential evidence must be identified preserved and made accessible for as long as authentic records are needed regardless of form.

The creation and use of an unprecedented and increasing volume of Federal electronic records in a wide variety of formats using evolving technologies poses a problem that the ERA must solve. An aspect of the invention involves an integrated ERA solution supporting NARA s evolving business processes to identify preserve and make accessible authentic electronic records of enduring value for as long as they are needed.

The ERA can be used to store process and or disseminate a private institution s records. That is the ERA may store records pertaining to a private institution or association and or the ERA may be used by a first entity to store the records of a second entity. System solutions no matter how elegant may be integrated with the institutional culture and organizational processes of the users.

Since 1934 NARA has developed effective and innovative processes to manage the records created or received maintained or used and destroyed or preserved in the course of public business transacted throughout the Federal Government. NARA played a role in developing this records lifecycle concept and related business processes to ensure long term preservation of and access to authentic archival records. NARA also has been instrumental in developing the archival concept of an authentic record that consists of four fundamental attributes content structure context and presentation.

NARA has been managing electronic records of archival value since 1968 longer than almost anyone in the world. Despite this long history the diverse formats and expanding volume of current electronic records pose new challenges and opportunities for NARA as it seeks to identify records of enduring value preserve these records as vital evidence of our nation s past and make these records accessible to citizens and public servants in accordance with statutory requirements.

The ERA should support and may affect the institution s e.g. NARA s evolving business processes. These business processes mirror the records lifecycle and are embodied in the agency s statutory authority 

Within this lifecycle framework the ERA solution provides an integrated and automated capability to manage electronic records from the identification and capture of records of enduring value through the storage preservation and description of the records to access control and retrieval functions.

Developing the ERA involves far more than just warehousing data. For example the archival mission is to identify preserve and make available records of enduring value regardless of form. This three part archival mission is the core of the Open Archival Information System OAIS Reference Model expressed as ingest archival storage and access. Thus one ERA solution is built around the generic OAIS Reference Model presented in which supports these core archival functions through data management administration and preservation planning.

The ERA may coordinate with the front end activities of the creation use and maintenance of electronic records by Federal officials. This may be accomplished through the implementation of disposition agreements for electronic records and the development of templates or schemas that define the content context structure and presentation of electronic records along with lifecycle data referring to these records.

The ERA solution may complement NARA s other activities and priorities e.g. by improving the interaction between NARA staff and their customers in the areas of scheduling transfer accessioning verification preservation review and redaction and or ultimately the ease of finding and retrieving electronic records .

Like NARA itself the scope of ERA includes the management of electronic and non electronic records permanent and temporary records and records transferred from Federal entities as well as those donated by individuals or organizations outside of the government. Each type of record is described and or defined below.

Although the focus of ERA is on preserving and providing access to authentic electronic records of enduring value the system s scope also includes for example management of specific lifecycle activities for non electronic records. ERA will support a set of lifecycle management processes such as those used for NARA for appraisal scheduling disposition transfer accessioning and description of both electronic and non electronic records. A common systems approach to appraisal and scheduling through ERA will improve the efficiency of such tasks for non electronic records and help ensure that permanent electronic records are identified as early as possible within the records lifecycle. This same common approach will automate aspects of the disposition transfer accessioning and description processes for all types of records that will result in significant workflow efficiencies. Archivists researchers and other users may realize benefits by having descriptions of both electronic and non electronic records available together in a powerful universal catalog of holdings. In an embodiment some of ERA s capabilities regarding non electronic records may come from subsuming the functionality of legacy systems such the Archival Research Catalog ARC . To effectively manage lifecycle data for all types of records in certain embodiments ERA also may maintain data interchange but not subsume other legacy systems and likely future systems related to non electronic records.

There is a fundamental archival distinction between records of enduring historic value such as those that NARA must retain forever e.g. permanent records and those records that a government must retain for a finite period of time to conduct ongoing business meet statutory and regulatory requirements or protect rights and interests e.g. temporary records .

For a particular record series from the US Federal Government NARA identifies these distinctions during the record appraisal and scheduling processes and they are reflected in NARA approved disposition agreements and instructions. Specific records are actually categorized as permanent or temporary during the disposition and accessioning processes. NARA takes physical custody of all permanent records and some temporary records in accordance with approved disposition agreements and instructions. While all temporary records are eventually destroyed NARA ultimately acquires legal in addition to physical custody over all permanent records.

ERA may address the distinction between permanent and temporary records at various stages of the records life cycle. ERA may facilitate an organization s records appraisal and scheduling processes where archivists and transferring entities may use the system to clearly identify records as either permanent or temporary in connection with the development and approval of disposition agreements and instructions. The ERA may use this disposition information in association with the templates to recognize the distinctions between permanent and temporary records upon ingest and manage these records within the system accordingly.

For permanent records this may involve transformation to persistent formats or use of enhanced preservation techniques to insure their preservation and accessibility forever. This also may apply to temporary records of long term value such as for example medical records. For example any record that must be retained beyond the life of its originating system may need one or more transformations that maintain the authenticity of the records. For temporary records NARA s Records Center Program RCP is exploring offering its customers an ERA service to ingest and store long term temporary records in persistent formats. To the degree that the RCP opts to facilitate their customers access to the ERA for appropriate preservation of long term temporary electronic records this same coordination relationship with transferring entities through the RCP will allow NARA to effectively capture permanent electronic records earlier in the records lifecycle. In the end ERA may also provide for the ultimate destruction of temporary electronic records.

In addition to federal records NARA also receives and accesses donated archival materials. Such donated collections comprise a significant percentage of NARA s Presidential Library holdings for example. ERA may manage donated electronic records in accordance with deeds of gift of deposit agreements which when associated with templates may ensure that these records are properly preserved and made available to users. Although donated materials may involve unusual disposition instructions or access restrictions ERA should be flexible enough to adapt to these requirements. Since individuals or institutions donating materials to NARA are likely to be less familiar with ERA than federal transferring entities the system may also include guidance and tools to help donors and the NARA appraisal staff working with them insure proper ingest preservation dissemination of donated materials.

Systems are designed to facilitate the work of users and not the other way around. One or more of the following illustrative classes of users may interact with the ERA transferring entity appraiser records processor preserver access reviewer consumer administrative user and or a manager. The ERA may take into account data security business process re engineering and or systems development and integration. The ERA solution also may provide easy access to the tools the users need to process and use electronic records holdings efficiently.

NARA must meet challenges relating to archiving massive amounts of information or the American people risk losing essential evidence that is only available in the form of electronic federal records. But beyond mitigating substantial risks the ERA affords such opportunities as 

According to one aspect of the invention there is provided a system for ingesting storing and or disseminating information. The system may include an ingest module a storage module and a dissemination module that may be accessed by a user via one or more portals.

In an aspect of certain embodiments there is provided a system and method for automatically identifying preserving and disseminating archived materials. The system method may include extreme scale archives storage architecture with redundancy or at least survivability suitable for the evolution from terabytes to exabytes etc.

In another aspect of certain embodiments there is provided an electronic records archives ERA comprising an ingest module to accept a file and or a record a storage module to associate the file or record with information and or instructions for disposition and an access or dissemination module to allow selected access to the file or record. The ingest module may include structure and or a program to create a template to capture content context structure and or presentation of the record or file. The storage module may include structure or a program to preserve authenticity of the file or record over time and or to preserve the physical access to the record or file over time. The access module may include structure and or a program to provide a user with the ability to view render the record or file over time to control access to restricted records to redact restricted or classified records and or to provide access to an increasing number of users anywhere at any time.

The ingest module may include structure or a program to auto generate a description of the file or record. Each record may be transformed e.g. using a framework that wraps and computerizes the record in a self describing format with appropriate metadata to represent information in the template.

The ingest module may include structure or a program to process a Submission Information Package SIP and or an Archival Information Package AIP . The access module may include structure or a program to process a Dissemination Information Packages DIP .

Independent aspects of the invention may include the ingest module alone or one or more aspects thereof the storage module alone or one or more aspects thereof and or the access module alone or one or more aspects thereof.

Still further aspects of the invention relate to methods for carrying out one or more functions of the ERA or components thereof ingest module storage module and or access module .

It is not enough just to preserve electronic records. Now and into the future archivists must be able to attest to the authenticity of the preserved records to protect the rights and interests of various constituents. If records cannot be certified as authentic there is a risk of unraveling the trust system upon which society is based.

In order to establish a common understanding it is important to clarity four key concepts and the relationships among them namely reliability authenticity authentication trustworthiness and accessibility.

The InterPARES Project an international collaboration researching the preservation of electronic records defined reliability and authenticity. These definitions in turn have been adopted by most subsequent research projects and initiatives. A reliable record stands for the facts it contains the record s content can be trusted. The reliability of a record depends upon for example the completeness of the record s form the control exercised over the process of creation etc.

A reliable record has authority that is there is knowledge of who created the record when it was created how it was created and the purpose for which it was created. Reliability generally is more the concern of the record s creator than its preserver. In some ways reliability is a given e.g. must be assumed before records ever reach the electronic archives. Although unreliable records generally cannot be made reliable the issue of reliability cannot be ignored.

In this vein there are two options for establishing a policy related to the reliability of submitted records. First all records submitted by institutions may be accepted. In this case it will be assumed that the records are reliable because the providers say so. Second reliability criteria that providers must meet before records will be accepted may be established. The criteria may deal with completeness of the record procedural controls over the creation of the records etc. For example the Authenticity Task Force of the InterPARES Project has established a set of criteria that may be used as a basis for setting such criteria.

The InterPARES Project defines an authentic record as a record that is what it purports to be and is free from tampering or corruption. Broadly considered the authenticity of records depends upon actions by both the Records Creator and the Records Preserver. In particular the Records Creator generally is concerned with the truth of the original record including for example the mode form and or state of transmission of the records as drafts originals and or copies. The Records Preserver generally is concerned with the manner of the maintenance preservation and custody of the records. The mode of transmission of the record generally is the means used to transmit a record across space and time whereas the form of transmission generally is the physical carrier on which a record is received e.g. paper film disk magnetic tape etc. .

For a record to be authentic meaning that the record remains reliable over time its preservation should occur under strict controls. Some questions that may be used when determining whether a record is authentic follow 

 Trust and truthfulness have become key aspects of an authentic record. Because conformity with the truth is a judgment a determination of authenticity likewise will be a judgment. For example though it is necessary to have an accurate bit stream such a bit stream is not sufficient to have an authentic record. It is this broad sense of authenticity that must be addressed. Indeed authenticity includes issues such as integrity completeness correctness validity faithfulness to an original meaningfulness and suitability for an intended purpose.

Although authenticity and authentication often are used together they sometimes may be thought of as quite different concepts. By way of example and without limitation authentication sometimes may be thought of as being a narrower term than authenticity. For example authentication generally is a declaration about a record at a given time. The rules governing authentication may be established by legislation or other policy. Authentication generally means that the custodian of a record issues a statement saying that a record is authentic at this time. Authentication thus may be thought of as being external to the record itself and is temporary as opposed to authenticity which is a quality of the record that is to be constantly protected over the long term . An authenticated record only can be as reliable as when the record was first issued by its creator. It certain embodiments it may be useful to authenticate e.g. certify a record from time to time to indicate that authenticity is being maintained.

The Minnesota Historical Society has defined the concept of a trustworthy information system. As stated in the TIS Handbook Trustworthiness refers to an information system s accountability and its ability to produce reliable and authentic information and records. In an embodiment documentation and metadata are a part of a trustworthy information system as they are useful in proper data creation storage retrieval modification retention destruction and the like.

Ensuring the authenticity over time of digital records is a major concern that has at least two aspects. A first aspect relates to checking and certifying data integrity e.g. associated with technical processes such as integrity checking certification digital watermarking steganography and or user and authentication protocols . A second aspect relates to identifying the intellectual qualities of information that make it authentic e.g. associated with legal cultural and or philosophical concepts such as trustworthiness and completeness .

According to Anne Gilliland Swetland Preserving knowledge is more complex than preserving only media or content. It is about preserving the intellectual integrity of information objects including capturing information about the various contexts within which information is created organized and used organic relationships with other information objects and characteristics that provide meaning and evidential value. Accordingly one feature of certain exemplary embodiments relates to preserving knowledge and making it available and accessible. This complex task involves both technical and intellectual challenges.

Unfortunately commercial systems for electronic archiving are built around storage and or workflow technologies but do not provide the highest levels of authenticity support over indefinite periods of time. Moreover commercial systems also tend to target archival needs within an enterprise and sometimes for compliance with targeted government regulations such as Sarbanes Oxley whereas a complete archives system such as NARA must accept records and other associated electronic assets e.g. administrative information about the records from other enterprises and has more stringent archival requirements. For example as the custodian of the nation s archived electronic assets NARA has to support basic rights of citizens and obligations of the government such as military pensions and patents which lead for example to indefinite retention requirements. Also current electronic records archives systems and processes are manually intensive and do not provide comprehensive support for electronic records authenticity.

For example it is noted that there are current commercial off the shelf COTS products that provide some elements of authenticity but not all elements. EMC s Documentum and Centera products are examples. Certain example systems have implemented Documentum for forms e.g. entry workflow infrastructure and content management of some data e.g. business objects . Centera is a storage system that provides protection and some metadata and search capabilities but it does not provide processes for authenticity. In general COTS products would address specific regulatory requirements such as for example Sarbanes Oxley if anything which target commercial business rather than more stringent needs e.g. of NARA that the drive innovative solution of the example embodiments.

Thus it will be appreciated that there is a need in the art for improved systems and or methods that is are scalable essentially without limitation for establishing and maintaining comprehensive authenticity of electronic records over an indefinite period of time in a substantially obsolescence proof manner.

According to certain exemplary embodiments a system for establishing and maintaining authenticity of a plurality of records and or documentary materials to be persisted in and accessible from an electronic archives system is provided. Safeguarding programmed logic circuitry may be configured to safeguard each said record and or documentary material throughout its entire lifecycle by monitoring and recording both intended changes to each said record and or documentary material and its corresponding status as well as unintended changes to each said record and or documentary material. Extracting and preserving programmed logic circuitry may be configured to extract and preserve context and structure associated with each said record and or documentary material. Custody programmed logic circuitry may be configured to establish and preserve substantially uninterrupted proof of custody including at least a source for each said record and or documentary material throughout its entire lifecycle. Essential characteristic programmed logic circuitry may be configured to capture and preserve essential characteristics of each said record and or documentary material throughout its lifecycle in dependence on one or more changeable definitions of essential characteristic. At least one storage location may be configured to store the plurality of records and or documentary materials and all preserved information. Access control circuitry may be configured and or programmed to allow user access to the archives system based on user attributes and object attributes. The archives system may be scalable essentially without limitation. The authenticity of the plurality of records and or documentary materials may be comprehensively storable and maintainable over an indefinite period of time in a substantially obsolescence proof manner despite changeability of the records and or documentary materials record and or documentary material custody and or essential characteristic definitions.

According to certain other exemplary embodiments a computer implemented method tangibly embodied by at least instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium for establishing and maintaining authenticity of a plurality of records and or documentary materials to be persisted in and accessible from an electronic archives system is provided. Each record and or documentary material may be safeguarded throughout its entire lifecycle by monitoring and recording both intended changes to each said record and or documentary material and its corresponding status as well as unintended changes to each said record and or documentary material. Context and structure associated with each said record and or documentary material may be extracted and preserved. Substantially uninterrupted proof of custody including at least a source may be established and preserved for each said record and or documentary material throughout its entire lifecycle. Essential characteristics of each said record and or documentary material may be captured and preserved throughout its lifecycle in dependence on one or more changeable definitions of essential characteristic. The plurality of record and or documentary material and all preserved information may be stored. Access to the archives system may be predicated on user attributes and object attributes. The archives system may be scalable essentially without limitation. The authenticity of the plurality of record and or documentary material may be comprehensively storable and maintainable over an indefinite period of time in a substantially obsolescence proof manner despite changeability of the records and or documentary materials record and or documentary material custody and or essential characteristic definitions.

According to still other exemplary embodiments a computer implemented method tangibly embodied by at least instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium for establishing and maintaining authenticity of a plurality of records and or documentary materials to be persisted in an electronic archives system is provided. Transfer media from a transferring entity may be inspected to ensure that said transfer media contains at least one record and or documentary material to be ingested. The at least one record and or documentary material to be ingested may be stored in a temporary storage location. That the transfer media is mounted for upload into the system may be ensured. At least one security and or integrity check may be performed on the transfer media. At least one validation check may be performed on the at least one record s and or documentary material s bit stream. The at least one record and or documentary material may be stored to at least one managed storage location. Any outstanding verification issues with the transferring entity may be resolved. Necessary metadata for the at least one record s and or documentary material s lifecycle may be persisted. Access to the at least one record and or documentary material may be restricted on the basis of user and object attributes. The archives system may be scalable essentially without limitation. The authenticity of the plurality of records and or documentary materials may be comprehensively storable and maintainable over an indefinite period of time in a substantially obsolescence proof manner despite changeability of the records and or documentary materials record and or documentary material custody and or essential characteristic definitions.

It will be appreciated that these techniques may be applied to records assets and or documentary materials. It also will be appreciated that documentary materials may encompass a variety of different items. For example in certain embodiments documentary materials may be considered a collective term for records non record materials and or personal papers that refers to all media on which information is recorded regardless of the nature of the medium or the method or circumstances of recording. In certain other embodiments documentary materials may include for example records e.g. temporary and or permanent non record material personal papers or artifacts that refer to all media containing recorded information regardless of the nature of the media or the method s or circumstance s of recording. In still other embodiments documentary materials may be comprised of electronic information on physical media or paper records that are shipped to the archives in containers e.g. box envelope etc and those documentary materials that include electronic information may be transmitted via HTTPS or SFTP and divided into virtual electronic containers by the system. This need not be a user activity but instead may be performed by the packaging tool as an aid to optimize transmission via electronic means.

It will be appreciated that as used herein the term subroutine is broad enough to encompass any suitable combination of hardware software and any other form of programmed logic circuitry which itself may be any suitable combination of hardware software firmware or the like capable of accomplishing a specified function. It also will be appreciated that the above described embodiments and the elements thereof may be used alone or in various combinations to realize yet further embodiments.

As described in the exemplary embodiments the system architecture and method of operation provide a means of controlling access to AIS objects by 

In some exemplary embodiments groups may contain unlimited numbers of subgroups and the subgroups may contain subgroups and so on without limit.

In some exemplary embodiments a common set of access permissions is assigned as attributes to groups and common permissions of groups are inherited by subgroups and or business roles associated with that group.

In some exemplary embodiments a subset of roles within a group or subgroup may have additional access permissions i.e. beyond the common access permissions granted to them.

In some exemplary embodiments subgroups and business roles may be assigned to groups and subgroups and that access permissions associated with these business roles and subgroups may further restrict but may never enhance access to AIS objects.

In some exemplary embodiments subject attributes will include group subgroup assignment role security descriptor and account status.

In some exemplary embodiments access permissions may be restricted or enhanced based on AIS content such as source network address time of day account status work process step or any other retrievable AIS data element or state.

In some exemplary embodiments all of the previously mentioned features function in a single security domain as well as across federated security domains.

In some exemplary embodiments sanitized information from dominant AISs may be transferred to dominated AISs via High Assurance Guards. One application of this feature is to send sanitized metadata information from dominant AISs to dominated AISs to enhance the search capabilities of dominated AISs which by their nature support many more users.

In some exemplary embodiments information may be transferred from dominated AISs to dominant AISs via data diodes.

To summarize subjects and external systems shall be given access rights to data and to the AIS services based on their identity the roles and access rights assigned to that identity workflow process states and other variable information contained in or about the AIS. AIS applications and services will verify subject s right to access AIS data and system resource through the Directory Service. Authorized subject roles will be allowed access to data. Access to information containers e.g. files shall be constrained such that residual information cannot be accessed. Subjects will be granted permissions by assigning them to groups roles defined in the Directory Service that uses Light Directory Access Protocol LDAP . Individual subjects will not be directly assigned permissions in the Commercial Off The Shelf COTS products contained in the AIS but will be assigned to groups.

Other aspects features and advantages of this invention will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which are a part of this disclosure and which illustrate by way of example principles of this invention.

The following description includes several examples and or embodiments of computer driven systems and or methods for carrying out automated information storage processing and or access. In particular one or more examples and embodiments are focused on systems and or methods oriented specifically for use with the U.S. National Archives and Records Administration NARA . However it will be recognized that while one or more portions of the present specification may be limited in application to NARA s specific requirements most if not all of the described systems and or methods have broader application. For example the implementations described for storage processing and or access to information also sometimes referred to as ingest storage and dissemination can also apply to any institution that requires and or desires automated archiving and or preservation of its information e.g. documents email corporate IP knowledge etc. The term institution includes at least government agencies or entities private companies publicly traded corporations universities and colleges charitable or non profit organizations etc. Moreover the term electronic records archive ERA is intended to encompass a storage processing and or access archives for any institution regardless of nature or size.

As one example NARA s continuing fulfillment of its mission in the area of electronic records presents new challenges and opportunities and the embodiments described herein that relate to the ERA and or authenticity techniques may help NARA fulfill its broadly defined mission. The underlying risk associated with failing to meet these challenges or realizing these opportunities is the loss of evidence that is essential to sustaining a government s or an institution s needs. relates specific electronic records challenges to the components of the OAIS Reference Model ingest archival storage access and data management administration and summarizes selected relevant research areas.

At Ingest the ERA needs to identify and capture all components of the record that are necessary for effective storage and dissemination e.g. content context structure and presentation . This can be especially challenging for records with dynamic content e.g. websites or databases .

Archival Storage Recognizing that in the electronic realm the logical record is independent of its media the four illustrative attributes of the record e.g. content context structure and presentation and their associated metadata still must be preserved for the life of the Republic. 

Access NARA will not fulfill its mission simply by storing electronic records of archival value. Through the ERA these records will be used by researchers long after the associated application software operating system and hardware all have become obsolete. The ERA also may apply and enforce access restrictions to sensitive information while at the same time ensuring that the public interest is served by consistently removing access restrictions that are no longer required by statute or regulation.

Data Management The amount of data that needs to be managed in the ERA can be monumental especially in the context of government agencies like NARA. Presented herewith are embodiments that are truly scalable solutions that can address a range of needs from a small focused Instance through large Instances. In such embodiments the system can be scaled easily so that capacity in both storage and processing power is added when required and not so soon that large excess capacities exist. This will allow the system to be scaled to meet demand and provide for maximum flexibility in cost and performance to the institution e.g. NARA .

Satisfactorily maintaining authenticity through technology based transformation and re representation of records is extremely challenging over time. While there has been significant research about migration of electronic records and the use of persistent formats there has been no previous attempt to create an ERA solution on the scale required by some institutions such as NARA.

Migrations are potentially loss full transformations so techniques are needed to detect and measure any actual loss. The system may reduce the likelihood of such loss by applying statistical sampling based on human judgment for example backed up with appropriate software tools and or institutionalized in a semi automatic monitoring process.

Table 1 summarizes the lessons learned by the Applicants from experience with migrating different types of records to a Persistent Object Format POF .

It is currently not possible to migrate a number of file formats in a way that will be acceptable for archival purposes. One aspect is to encourage the evolution and enhancement of third party migration software products by providing a framework into which such commercial off the shelf COTS software products could become part of the ERA if they meet appropriate tests.

When an appropriate POF cannot be identified to reduce the chances of obsolescence the format may need to be migrated to a non permanent but more modern proprietary format this is known as Enhanced Preservation . Even POFs are not static since they still need executable software to interpret them and future POFs may need to be created that have less feature loss than an older format. Thus the ERA may allow migrated files to be migrated again into a new and more robust format in the future. Through the Dutch Testbed Project the Applicants have found that it is normally better to return to the original file s whenever such a re migration occurs. Thus when updating a record certain exemplary embodiments may revert to an original version of the document and migrate it to a POF accordingly whereas certain other exemplary embodiments may not be able to migrate the original document e.g. because it is unavailable in an unsupported format etc. and thus may be able to instead or in addition migrate the already migrated file. Thus in certain exemplary embodiments a new version of a record may be derived from an original version of the record if it is available or if it the original is not available the new version may be derived from any other already existing derivative version e.g. of the original . As such an extensible POF for certain exemplary embodiments may be provided.

In view of the above aspects of the OAIS Reference Model the ERA may comprise an ingest module to accept a file and or a record a storage module to associate the file or record with information and or instructions for disposition and an access or dissemination module to allow selected access to the file or record. The ingest module may include structure and or a program to create a template to capture content context structure and or presentation of the record. The storage module may include structure and or a program to preserve authenticity of the record over time and or to preserve the physical access to the record or file over time. The access module may include structure or a program to provide a user with ability to view render the record or file over time to control access to restricted records to redact restricted or classified records and or to provide access to an increasing number of users anywhere at any time.

During the Identify stage producers and archivists develop a Disposition Agreement to cover records. This Disposition Agreement contains disposition instructions and also a related Preservation and Service Plan. Producers submit records to the ERA System in a Submission Information Package SIP . The transfer occurs under a pre defined Disposition Agreement and Transfer Agreement. The ERA System validates the transferred SIP by scanning for viruses ensuring the security access restrictions are appropriate and checking the records against templates. The ERA System informs the Producer of any potential problems and extracts metadata including descriptive data described in greater detail below creates an Archival Information Package or AIP also described in greater detail below and places the AIP into Archival Storage. At any time after the AIP has been placed into Archival Storage archivists may perform Archival Processing which includes developing arrangement description finding aids and other metadata. These tasks will be assigned to archivists based on relevant policies business rules and management discretion. Archival processing supplements the Preservation Description Information metadata in the archives.

At any time after the AIP has been placed into Managed Storage also sometimes called Archival Storage archivists may perform Preservation Processing which includes transforming the records to authentically preserve them. Policies business rules Preservation and Service Plans and management discretion will drive these tasks. Preservation processing supplements the Preservation Description Information metadata in the archives and produces new transformed record versions.

With respect to the Make Available phase at any time after the AIP has been placed into Archival Storage archivists may perform Access Review and Redaction which includes performing mediated searches verifying the classification of records and coordinating redaction of records where necessary. These tasks will be driven by policies business rules and access requests. Access Review and Redaction supplement the Preservation Description Information metadata in the archives and produces new redacted record versions. Also at any time after the AIP has been placed into Managed Storage Consumers may search the archives to find records of interest.

The Preservation system level package includes the services necessary to manage the preservation of the electronic records to ensure their continued existence accessibility and authenticity over time. The Preservation system level service also provides the management functionality for preservation assessments Preservation and Service Level plans authenticity assessment and digital adaptation of electronic records. The Archival Storage system level package includes the functionality to abstract the details of mass storage from the rest of the system. This abstraction allows this service to be appropriately scaled as well as allow new technology to be introduced independent of the other system level services according to business requirements. The Dissemination system level package includes the functionality to manage search and access requests for assets within the ERA System. Users have the capability to generate search criteria execute searches view search results and select assets for output or presentation. The architecture provides a framework to enable the use of multiple search engines offering a rich choice of searching capabilities across assets and their contents.

The Local Services and Control LS C system level package includes the functional infrastructure for the ERA Instance including a user interface portal user workflow security services external interfaces to the archiving entity and other entities systems as well as the interfaces between ERA Instances. All external interfaces are depicted as flowing through LS C although the present invention is not so limited.

The ERA System contains a centralized monitoring and management capability called ERA Management. The ERA Management hardware and or software may be located at an ERA site. The Systems Operations Center SOC provides the system and security administrators with access to the ERA management Virtual Local Area Network. Each SOC manages one or more Federations of Instances based on the classification of the information contained in the Federation.

The diagram shown in provides a representative illustration of how a federated ERA system can be put together though it will be appreciated that the same is given by way of example and without limitation. Also the diagram describes a collection of Instances at the same security classification level and compartment that can communicate electronically via a Wide Area Network WAN with one another although the present invention is not so limited. For example represents a federation of ERA instances in accordance with an exemplary embodiment. The federation approach is described in greater detail below although it is important to note here that the ERA and or the asset catalog may be structured to work with and or enable a federated approach.

The ERA s components may be structured to receive manage and process a large number of assets and collections of assets. Because of the large number of assets and collections of assets it would be advantageous to provide an approach that scales to accommodate the same. Beyond the storage of the assets themselves a way of understanding accessing and managing the assets may be provided to add meaning and functionality to the broader ERA. To serve these and or other ends an asset catalog including related enabling features may be provided.

In particular to address the overall problems of scaling and longevity the asset catalog and storage system federator may address the following underlying problems alone or in various combinations 

It will be appreciated that these and or other components described herein may be provided in any number of different combinations of hardware and or software components architectures subsystems or the like. Indeed any suitable form of programmed logic circuitry including one or both of hardware and or software may be used in certain example embodiments.

Several design considerations may be taken into account when providing for authenticity of records within the broader archives system design. Design consideration may include one or more of the following exemplary considerations 

Both archival judgment and system processes embedded into the archives system may play a role in determining authenticity. The large volume of records may require computer implemented methods to evaluate the conditions for authenticity of records. Human assessment may be applied to archives system processes that impact authenticity using sampled records as part of a user acceptance testing process that can serve as quality control. Computer implemented processes may be incorporated within the archives system based on its increment based release of functionality. These processes may codify business processes into system orchestrations and controls that are built into the system.

Templates that define the essential characteristics of record types may be developed. For example according to NARA a template is a set of specifications about a type of electronic document record donated material or an aggregate of such electronic documentary materials. Such templates may provide flexibility and extensibility to the architecture and may also provide a mechanism for the system to evolve and adapt to changing organizational needs.

Within the lifecycle view part of the appraisal process of electronic records may include confirming the template that should be applied to a body of material destined for the archives. The template may be updated as appropriate for the material covered by a specific schedule item. Templates also may be applicable throughout the archives system records lifecycle.

Metadata may be captured and or generated within each activity that impacts authenticity within the records lifecycle. The archives system may have an extensible concept of metadata which includes lifecycle data description and templates that will bind templates and contextual descriptive and provenance information to physical objects e.g. data files and conceptual objects. This metadata may be available for presentation along with records to assist in establishing their authenticity.

The archives system may incorporate the design for an Asset Catalog which may hold an entry for every physical object e.g. data file and for all conceptual objects e.g. record series collection etc. . The design of the asset catalog entries may save the structure of conceptual arrangements and their associated physical objects such that the structure of records is persisted. The asset catalog may provide the binding between the metadata of the record and the data files that contain records stored within the archives.

A testing program helps to prove that the records archives system is reliable. The testing program may help to close the loop on standard business policies and procedures by proving that the system actually did was it was designed to do.

The Integration and Test I T process may comprise the tasks and activities needed to build and test the archives system incrementally through different phases. The test approach may follow the same mature proven ISO 9001 2000 and Capability Maturity Model Integration CMMI Level 5 process. This approach may be tailored to address the unique characteristics of the archives system including the Service Oriented Architecture SOA distributed deployment external interface requirements security requirements human factors specifications and or the use of COTS products. Adherence to the processes leads to a carefully planned disciplined rigorous controlled and structured integration and test program to ensure a high quality stable usable system satisfying high level system requirements in conjunction with demanding acceptance criteria.

I T activities may starts with development testing at the archives system development lab that includes unit and string testing software integration testing and external interface emulation and integration. The next step is system integration testing that is conducted at a facility that mirrors the archives system in production. This includes regression testing system integration system testing usability testing accessibility testing and performance testing. The final set of testing is known as acceptance testing and this is done within a customer acceptance test lab that includes product acceptance testing on a release and increment basis operational acceptance testing and installation acceptance testing. depicts this illustrative Integration Test Lifecycle.

One purpose of the I T Lifecycle is to verify and validate the archives system. Within this context verification refers to the activities performed to ensure that the system that was built accurately reflects the intent of the system requirements e.g. it provides confirmation that the correct system was built. Validation activities confirm that the system that was built functions as intended e.g. the system performs activities correctly and returns the expected results. These activities are performed on many levels unit software system and from different perspectives human factors security and performance .

Execution of the I T Lifecycle may help to ensure authenticity by verifying that the pillars of the archives system support structure for authenticity mentioned above have been incorporated the software and system requirements that codify this functionality. Test procedures and test cases incorporate elements to demonstrate that the specified functionality has been built is available to authorized users and functions as intended. Although the archives system credibility and the necessary conditions for authenticity can be verified and validated the determination of the authenticity of a record still requires the application of archival judgment via one or more predetermined standards. Implementation of these standards will establish the archives system s ability to preserve authentic records.

Standard business processes which utilize the preservation of authentic records as its fundamental precept may serve as the foundation to establishing the authenticity of the records within the archives system. Therefore end to end testing may be performed to establish the archives system s ability to support standard business processes. End to End testing may be conducted at the end of each increment. It may be comprised of a series of regression tests and system level scenarios developed in conjunction with subject matter experts SME and based on the output of the Business Process IPT. Each scenario may contain a mapping of the steps to the conditions necessary for authenticity and therefore prove that authenticity has been built into the system and that the system can produce authentic records.

As used herein the term asset may include any electronic e.g. digital information archived in an archives system and the term electronic record may include a single conceptual object which may be comprised of multiple files that is made or received by an organization or institution. An electronic record is a type of electronic asset. A non record asset may be information about or derived from records. Authenticity applies to records though elements of authenticity such as integrity apply to all assets.

Certain example embodiments establish and or maintain the authenticity of records stored in an electronic archives system. The example systems and methods generally may provide a comprehensive set of processes that achieve new higher levels of authenticity standards. One aspect of authenticity relates to provenance as described above refers to the origin or source from which something comes along with the history of subsequent owners e.g. the chain of custody . Provenance is a fundamental principle of archives in general referring to the individual group or organization that created or received the items e.g. in a collection. Another aspect of authenticity involves the Essential Characteristics of an electronic record and as described above Essential Characteristics include those properties and or characteristics of electronic records that must remain unchanged through transfer ingest storage and presentation or output of records including preservation processing . A record s essential characteristics should remain unchanged so that there is no loss of the information content of the asset providing archival value which may be needed for authenticity judgment.

Essential characteristic parameters may be defined by record type. It will be appreciated that essential characteristics of assets may change over time for a given record type if it becomes apparent in the future that some characteristic should have been captured or captured at a different standard for example. To deal with this problem either the original formats have to be interpretable forever which means having to maintain an ever expanding capability e.g. number of software applications ready to interpret every format ever archived or else original formats have to be adapted to modern supported formats from time to time which risks losing unforeseen essential characteristics if these adaptations cannot be lossless and inadvertently lose information needed for a characteristic subsequently determined to be essential. Certain example embodiments support both approaches and allow for a trade off between these two approaches.

In certain example embodiments a flexible set of processes and interfaces enforced through workflow and computer implemented sub processes may be combined to create a mechanism that meets a higher standard of electronic records authenticity and which can be used to archive other institutions electronic records as well as an institution s own. For example the processes may be flexible in that they accommodate various situations that may arise e.g. if the originator of the materials to archive no longer exists e.g. a defunct business then not all information about the records may be available.

Some or all of these sub processes may combine to provide new levels of authenticity in an archives system by providing the elements an archivist needs to make a judgment of authenticity over the life of the record including for example ensuring asset integrity establishing assets essential characteristics and providing provenance.

These elements are provided by the following exemplary general workflow. First records and other associated electronic assets may be safeguarded through their lifecycles. This may include providing mechanisms to manage aspects of intended asset changes e.g. record adaptations and status and also detecting unintended changes to assets e.g. through file integrity seal checks . Second associated context and structure may be extracted and preserved so that the meaning of the records is known and their essential characteristics are defined and recorded including for example organizing records so that those created or received by one records keeping unit are not intermixed with those of any other as may be necessary. Third uninterrupted proof of custody may be maintained beginning as soon as possible e.g. establishing and preserving proof of the records source and for the life of the record. Fourth mechanisms may be established for defining and capturing the essential characteristics of archived records and for preserving these characteristics in records as they may be adapted over the years from obsolete formats to new formats.

The example workflow process described above may be used in connection with one or more of the following example sub processes. In general the sub processes or subroutines correspond to acquiring records processes ongoing processes and horizontal functions. It will be appreciated that the following sub processes may be made available via any suitable form of programmed logic circuitry.

Records scheduling programmed logic circuitry generally establishes the records to archive and collects information about the records. Such records scheduling programmed logic circuitry may help to identify which records are permanent and will be transferred to an archives. It also may collect available initial information about the electronic records to be archived to plan their preservation and begin to establish their authenticity e.g. the early collection of contextual information to establish chain of custody as early as possible thereby increasing authenticity . Information collected may include disposition e.g. retention time purpose and context e.g. structure any existing appraisals administrative and custodial history such as may exist. Early collection of contextual information is part of bringing forward in the record lifecycle certain elements of the archives processes to establish chain of custody as early as possible thereby increasing authenticity.

Preservation planning programmed logic circuitry may be provided. Such preservation planning programmed logic circuitry may be useful to establish the essential characteristics of records that must persist over time. Scheduled records essential characteristics should be preserved throughout the archival process regardless of whether methods to protect these characteristics exist. Transfer request programmed logic circuitry relates to a step in the legal transfer of records during which time additional detailed information may be collected. Such transfer request programmed logic circuitry may establishes an agreement to transfer physical and or legal custody of documentary materials either for archival or records center storage. It also may establish a standard record of the transfer request at the point when certain details of the transfer are known supporting subsequent verification.

Package creation programmed logic circuitry may facilitate flexible package creation during which time additional attributes may be collected. Such package creation programmed logic circuitry may help to package records and associated information e.g. documentary materials and additional metadata for transfer to the archival system. Metadata may include number of files filenames and attributes who created when created how created structure description purpose etc. at the source institution so as to establish chain of custody as early as possible. Package creation also may involve a packaging tool that operates in connected or disconnected mode. In certain example embodiments a connected mode may be more automated whereas a disconnected mode may provide more flexibility.

Transfer programmed logic circuitry may provide for the secure transmission of the electronic records to the archival system. This may include documentary materials and transfer manifest.

Ingest extraction programmed logic circuitry may help to collect metadata from transferred materials including essential characteristics. Such ingest extraction programmed logic circuitry may provide for the unpackaging of transmitted packages to access the individual files in the package and associated metadata. This may include extracting certain metadata about the records files which may further include extracting essential characteristics according to asset type templates to capture the currently established essential characteristics for an asset type while still accommodating the capture of new or unique characteristics that may be identified for the transmitted assets. Ingest scanning programmed logic circuitry may check for malware e.g. viruses and security classifications. Ingest validation programmed logic circuitry may provide a comprehensive validation process that includes checks that records are in accordance with previous steps. Such ingest validation programmed logic circuitry may initiate a multi level set of checks that ensure the package received is not corrupt and is in accordance with records of what is supposed to be transferred e.g. according to business objects such as transfer agreements records schedules transfer manifests legal transferences and or disposition agreements . Ingest assignment of unique ID programmed logic circuitry may assign an immutable globally unique identifier to each asset so that it can be tracked and managed over time without any identification ambiguity. Ingest integrity sealing programmed logic circuitry may help to ensure that asset corruption is detected. Such ingest integrity sealing programmed logic circuitry may help to derive a unique hash e.g. number for each record and or for each file of each record based on the content of the record and or file. The hash does not need to and in certain example embodiments should not change over the life of the record and may be used to prove the record has not changed over its life. This process may be performed as soon as packaging occurs. The seal e.g. hash numbers may be stored separate from asset e.g. in the asset catalog for protection. New record versions may receive their own seal and may have different underlying files but the original record including its files always should be retained.

Preservation storage programmed logic circuitry helps to ensure that records are stored according to handling restrictions and that access controls are in place. That is assets are stored e.g. bit streams are preserved in accordance with any handling restrictions and associated catalog entries are created capturing essential information used for authenticity e.g. for tracking the archives contents and capturing essential characteristic values and access and handling controls. This may provide protection of assets in accordance with security and privacy rules preserve assets in accordance with their dispositions e.g. retention times including protection from premature deletion may provide for adaptation to new versions as electronic formats become obsolete and eventually delete or purge according to asset s disposition and with appropriate safeguards to ensuring purging is still valid.

Access control programmed logic circuitry serves to restrict access to records in accordance with user attributes and object attributes. That is only users having clearance or access level and or ownership indicia or work relationship to particular records may in fact obtain access to the particular records. In this way the security of sensitive and confidential records can be preserved thereby preventing unfettered dissemination of records in violation of privacy rules national security etc.

Accommodations may be made for ongoing authenticity judgment processes. Such accommodations may include for example workflows to automate and or enforce authenticity judgment processes the checking of integrity seals reporting on chain of custody data asset activity logs and other data all for the purpose of supporting subsequent and ongoing integrity checks and archivists viewing of this information for authenticity judgment purposes.

Accommodations also may be made for ongoing preservation and dissemination of assets. Such accommodations may include for example identifying capturing and implementing security privacy and handling restrictions including information assurance mechanisms e.g. authentication and identification confidentiality integrity and non repudiation search metadata and records essential characteristic values to support subsequent asset preservation and dissemination. For preservation this may include accommodation for establishing new certified digital adaptations of assets e.g. modern asset formats that maintain essential characteristics which may include matching assets to digital adapters according to measures based on essential characteristics to derive modern formats of assets before they become obsolete and other asset versions such as redacted assets. Dissemination aspects may support authenticity for example by protecting assets by accurately and completely rendering assets and by providing findability to ensure that any records competing for authenticity can be known to the archivist to make a proper authenticity judgment. Also ongoing preservation processes may implement mechanisms to avert obsolescence by migrating assets to modern formats without jeopardizing authenticity.

Information assurance controls may be provided throughout all processes and on all interfaces. In particular all interactions e.g. transfer with respect to the archives system may include information assurance controls e.g. may include two factor authentication with external institutions and access controls internally in accordance with security and privacy rules. Also all actions on assets may be tracked and made available for authenticity judgment purposes. That is all activities performed on assets may be logged to support subsequent reporting in support of provenance. Log data may be added to archival storage as an asset. Log record search keys may be added as metadata for the corresponding assets in archival storage or individual log records may be added as assets in their own right and explicitly linked to corresponding assets via the mechanisms of the asset catalog.

Certain exemplary embodiments provide for a more comprehensive asset lifecycle governance controls and tracking while also providing for a higher degree of authenticity assurance. Additional interfaces such as the packaging tool noted earlier and processes for receiving assets into the archives from external legal enterprises e.g. separate agencies and businesses also may be provided. It will be appreciated that certain example embodiments extend the meaning of provenance to include not only the origin of the records and or data files and their custodial history but also the history of all actions taken on those records and or data files within the records archives system. This may provide additional flexibility as policies on how to establish authenticity change over time by providing additional information that can be exploited by such policies.

The exemplary embodiments described herein implement a flexible and extensible means of controlling access to Automated Information System AIS objects e.g. data records software programs AIS files software program functions based on subject i.e. user attributes e.g. group affiliation business role clearance or access level and network address from which access is requested and object attributes e.g. required clearance level group ownership and state e.g. workflow step and time of day . The invention functions both within a single security domain as well as across a federation of security domains.

A record may be composed of a large number of separate digital objects each of which may have its own access restrictions some of which may be specific to and created for those digital objects. This implies a record may be subject to an unbounded set of access restrictions that may be placed on the record or at any point in the hierarchical organizations of the objects that make up that record.

Because access restrictions are an unbounded set defined by the record and can be policy driven classic access restriction models which are built around a pre determined finite set of restrictions may be inapplicable to this model.

The exemplary embodiments posit a different record centric model that is extensible in terms of specific access privileges and includes both functional roles and security locales.

Managing access to material in the AIS raises new issues that it may not be possible to address within the context of a classic access restrictions defined centric model in which access restrictions are defined in advance.

Because of the unbounded nature of the access and use restrictions for material in the AIS a model that is extensible is needed. This has implication of course both for the labeling of access and use restrictions and for the authorization process for entities accessing the material.

The exemplary embodiments implement the use of Extensible Markup Language XML to create an extensible means to define access and use restrictions to objects. Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP subject i.e. user account attributes provide an extensible means of recording subject groups roles clearances and other privileges in LDAP Data Interchange Format LDIF . Comparison of pertinent subject and object attributes determine whether or not access is granted.

The traditional approach to managing access restrictions on information has been restriction centric and has operated like this 

Some access restrictions such as National Security Classifications or the Office of Personnel Management s Levels of Public Trust may be a single axis hierarchy in which each access privilege level includes all levels below it. In more complex systems the hierarchical axis may be combined with a second non hierarchical axis e.g. Sensitive Compartmented Information SCI that may be based on some other criteria such as the subject category of the material. In this case user privileges and access restrictions have to be evaluated on both axes i.e. classification and compartment or trust level and subject matter . More than one compartment may be attributed to both users and objects.

From an access control perspective the compartments of SCI function in the same way that other government access controls such as Title 13 Census information Law Enforcement Sensitive or Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA function. Commercial industry controls access to information protected by the Privacy Act HIPPA Intellectual Property laws and Export Laws in the same way and may extend this methodology to other information it deems to need protection.

The manner in which records are transferred to an organization and the latitude donors have in defining access and use restrictions on records they donate or entrust to the receiving organization introduces concepts such as potentially restricted records special access restrictions and use restrictions that are unbounded in scope. Table 2 identifies types of access and user restrictions.

To apply such restrictions implies knowing the following characteristics of entities wishing to access material covered by these restrictions 

The family of a prominent scientist who worked on projects of national interest deeds the scientist s papers to the National Archives. The deed of gift stipulates that for some of the papers only persons deemed to have made a recognized contribution to the field of research energy particle physics should have access and that publication of any part of the papers is prohibited.

In the Ingest process the Department of Energy DOE is consulted because the scientist worked on DOE projects and some of the papers may be access restricted by the DOE. DOE classifies parts of the papers as Secret and further restricts some parts of the donation to persons authorized to access the records of the project on which the scientist worked.

The Archivist has determined that the original order of the record looks something like the following. This represents the way the scientist had organized his papers.

A researcher submits a Freedom of Information Act FOIA request against this collection. The access restrictions on the part of the record subject to the FOIA request and of interest to the DOE Reviewer which is an unpublished work for the DOE project might look like this 

In this case the user has sufficient privileges and need to know in both of the access restriction hierarchies associated to the object 

Further access processing would check 1 to make sure the user locale had sufficient privilege for any National Security Classification associated to the object before initiating a transfer of the object to the user s location and 2 if there are any use restriction entries on file the system would check that the user had a commitment on file to respect those use restrictions.

Domain Definition A security domain is defined as an instance of the AIS that contains information a given hierarchical sensitivity level e.g. National Security Classification Top Secret Secret Confidential Unclassified or lower. The sensitivity level may be further defined by multiple non hierarchical attributes such as SCI compartments. Dominance does not apply to non hierarchical domains. For example a Secret domain could contain information classified as Secret Confidential or Unclassified but could not contain Top Secret information. A Top Secret SCI domain could contain all sensitivity levels.

Applying this to the commercial world a corporation might define its information sensitivity as High Medium Low and Unrestricted. Employees partners etc. would be subject to investigations interviews or other processes to determine their trustworthiness High Medium or Low in protecting information. The sensitivity level might further be defined by multiple non hierarchical attributes such as Product X ray Corp. Y Merger ABC Division Divestiture.

Federation Definition A security federation is any number of interconnected instances of a security domain. For example a primary Secret domain in the Washington D.C. area when connected to a Secret instance at a regional office in St. Louis Mo. or Stennis Miss. would form a Secret Federation. There is no limit on the number of domains instances that comprise a federation. Likewise a commercial entity might create separate systems and communications networks Virtual Private Networks or Virtual LANs to be used for High Medium Low and Unrestricted work. Several instances of the High systems would be referred to as the High Federation.

Dominate Definition One security domain dominates another if and only if the hierarchical part of sensitivity level of the first is higher than that of the other. The concept of dominance also applies to the clearances of subjects. For example a subject with a Secret clearance may be given access to Secret Confidential and Unclassified domains but not Top Secret domains. Information may flow freely from a dominated domain to a dominant domain but not vice versa. Dominance does not apply to non hierarchical access controls. For example a subject with SCI access does not necessarily have access to Unclassified Title 13 or Presidential Records Act information. In the commercial environment an individual with High clearance does not necessarily have access to Product Xray information.

The security infrastructure must support operation of the security domain as an independent system as well as part of a federation where some domains dominate others. The structure must support the receipt of catalogue entries into a dominated domain with the proper definitions and protect them in its domain appropriately. It must also allow receipt of information from domains that it dominates.

The AIS implements a new record centric model for managing access and use restrictions that is extensible in terms of specific access privileges and includes both functional roles and security locales.

This record centric model allows any number of access restrictions to be placed on a record or any part of a record via metadata entries for the record.

The access restrictions can be modeled in a simple syntax that allows for the possibility of hierarchical restrictions. Extensible Markup Language XML is well suited for this and was used in the AIS though the following XML examples represent examples that could be modeled using other technologies. The access restrictions as represented in XML metadata can be associated with any part of a record within that record s own internal hierarchical organization.

The application of such restrictions requires that when a user is authenticated and authorized a session context is created which will include the access privileges from that user s profile and user locale data.

The family of a prominent scientist who worked on projects of national interest deeds the scientist s papers to the National Archives. The deed of gift stipulates that for some of the papers only persons deemed to have made a recognized contribution to the field of research energy particle physics should have access and that publication of any part of the papers is prohibited.

In the Ingest process the Department of Energy DOE is consulted because the scientist worked on DOE projects and some of the papers may be access restricted by the DOE. DOE classifies parts of the papers as Secret and further restricts some parts of the donation to persons authorized to access the records of the project on which the scientist worked.

The Archivist has determined that the original order of the record looks something like the following. This represents the way the scientist had organized his papers.

Subjects subjects and external systems are given access rights to data and to the AIS services based on their identity the Groups to which they belong and their roles. Access rights are dynamically assigned to an identity during identification and authentication. AIS applications and services verify subject s right to access AIS data and system resources through the Directory Service. Authorized subject roles are allowed access to data. Access to information containers e.g. files is constrained such that residual information cannot be accessed. Subjects are granted permissions by assigning them to group roles defined in the LDAP Directory Service. Individual subjects will not be directly assigned permissions in the Commercial Off The Shelf COTS products contained in the AIS but will be assigned to groups. Following are definitions of terms 

The AIS implements Application level i.e. Read Create Modify Delete access permissions to AIS objects such as files records data elements software methods and programs are granted to groups and subgroups into which subjects are assigned and the business roles they play in those groups subgroups. Additionally access clearances are attributed to subjects and clearance requirements are attributed to objects to enable part of the content basis for granting access. Finally content based access restrictions such as time of day work process step object state and source network address provide additional granularity to policies controlling access to AIS objects.

Data transfer between Federations is accomplished using data diodes and high assurance guards. Data Diodes allow one way flow of data from dominated security domains to dominant domains. High assurance guards contain security policies that enable the secure flow of lower classified i.e. dominated information residing in dominant domains to pass to dominated domains.

The security architecture is based on a Multiple Independent Level of Security MILS approach that physically separates records into ERA Instances dedicated to their classification level. Records are preferably stored in a non encrypted format and utilize state of the art network security and high assurance guards that are presently used with the Government Intelligence Community Department of Defense DoD and law enforcement. The MILS approach reduces the risk of complex and time consuming accreditation associated with alternate multi level security approaches and lowers the total ownership cost by minimizing the need for reaccredidation with each product or functional change.

The security architecture ensures that consumer access to the ERA through the World Wide Web provides them with exactly the information that is intended to be made available to them. Each site contains one or more ERA Instances based on the levels of classified data to be stored including a financial system interface to integrate dissemination tasks. Each Instance contains the appropriate Ingest Storage Dissemination and local services individually scaled to match the demands of the Instance such as the quantity of information that it is expected to be ingested and stored. Partial Instances are architecturally supported and may be used to resolve producer data protection concerns transition states or timing issues. Each Instance is linked to the NARANET or secure Government networks based on classification level and a paired Active Safe Store site that provides redundant access to all of its records.

The ERA system is composed of ERA Instances tied together by ERA Management services resident at the System Operations Center SOC through an ERA WAN. These services perform critical enterprise management functions such as logistics management business process management and system operations management for each classification level. Interfaces to the space and inventory management and administrative systems are provided at the SOC. The ERA architecture ensures that each step in the lifecycle of a record archived by NARA is completed by the proper professionals increasing assurance that the authenticity of each record is maintained. A workflow manager identifies the NARA defined tasks and roles for each record at its appropriate stage in the lifecycle. Based on their sign on and authorizations users are presented with a portal view. They have access to the complete set of tasks requiring their attention at the selected security classification level. Tasks are units of work that act on records and collections or perform other ERA activities.

The user can partially or fully complete tasks performing multiple tasks in parallel. At the completion of a task the record or collection being acted upon advances to the next workflow step that has been defined to the workflow manager. The user which may be the same person for that step then has this item added to his her available set of tasks. This creates a system generated audit trail for all tasks.

Information on the size of the backlog of tasks is shown by reports that indicate the overall status of work within the ERA system. Managers have the ability to assign and reassign tasks to different users or groups of users.

The dissemination functional architecture shown in decomposes the functions and high level processing flows for the Dissemination Segment into constituent sub services. This section addresses a nominal consumer request and a Freedom of Information Act FOIA mediated search request. Registered consumers are provided with subscription services and information on previous searches. Table 3 summarizes the functions and associated descriptions of the blocks shown in .

The Manage Orders and Subscriptions function coordinates with the NARA financial system for ordering information and provides available options for electronic or media record delivery. All order and subscription status is managed by this function. When an order is placed Manage Orders and Subscriptions initiates the retrieval process.

The Retrieve Records and Federated Retrieve functions obtain the record based on its location as described in the records catalog. Records available onsite are copied from the local Storage Segment. The Release Control function manages site to site security for records retrieved from the Storage Segment at another site.

Perform Virus Scan quarantines infected records prior to transmission to the user. This check is critical as lack of knowledge of a virus may not have allowed its detection during Ingest processing completed at an earlier time. Quarantined records are identified to records processors for action from Ingest and consumers are notified that there will be a delay in the ability to provide the record.

Our Dissemination functional architecture achieves functionality performance high availability and security. Search indexes and the record catalog for all sensitive but unclassified SBU and Presidential Records Act PRA sites are available at each SBU Instance and can be reached from higher level classifications via a one directional connection provided by the Release Control function. This allows the system to load balance users to the most available dissemination server. The search and order process can be completed on any available dissemination server.

Classified sites protect compartmentalization of records by relying on federated search and retrieve functions instead of sharing classified record catalogs. The Federated Search function allows users with the highest authorization levels to run searches and retrieve records across the entire classification level and lower classification levels.

At the discretion of the transferring entity the archivist can define record descriptions for inclusion in a lower security classification level record catalog. This permits identification of the existence of the record while limiting record access to users signed on at the correct classification level.

In addition the Dissemination functional architecture provides a framework for deployment of best of breed search engines over time. This is accomplished within the Service Oriented Architecture through abstracting the search function providing common standards based application interfaces e.g. XML Structured Query Language SQL etc. for the deployed product search index information received from Ingest. The Dissemination search capability invokes the search engine and finding aids and accepts the returned results via an XML message passing interface. The architecture and design anticipate adding and swapping finding aids and search engines as the technological evolution of the ERA Program progresses.

The search tools included in the notional design provide full text concept and Boolean search of record and group descriptions and keywords as well as search of the metadata in the Record Catalog. Full text search of the content of each record item is technically achievable but it is a cost driver for storage of the search indices for the search engine CPUs and the associated licenses. While professional archivists and researchers would likely use a hierarchy of group and record descriptors a typical researcher from the public would expect a Google like search service. Implementing such a search capability at the initial deployment of the ERA Program would be a costly and uncertain undertaking. We estimated that such a capability would require approximately 2500 CPUs and would require storage for the full text indices equal to approximately of storage for the original records. In addition this search model works well on text based formats but not on other record formats such as imagery GIS maps audio and video and only in a limited sense on databases.

It should be noted that the search Index will most likely have to be re generated for each new search engine that is integrated tested and installed. Building this new search Index can be performed as a background crawl process of the data while the old Index and search engine are still in service. This background task will have negligible impact to system performance. Any replacement of a key component such as a search engine will go through rigorous integration and testing to ensure that it is fully interoperable with the deployed system and the impact to system performance will be negligible once the new version is deployed and goes into production.

Thus the ERA architecture supports any number of finding aids with minimal work to bring each new finding aid online including possible future expansion to full text searches. Primary trade study considerations are licensing costs and the search index storage required for peak performance contrasted by search effectiveness and speed.

The management of subscription services resides within the Dissemination segment of the functional architecture. This functional allocation ensures that the data is being disseminated through only one service area so that archival information is never compromised. Even though subscription services reside in Dissemination subscriptions are still available to originators preservers and archivists. The intent is to properly orderly and methodically manage dissemination of information to any and all authorized users on a real time ad hoc basis or through a periodic subscription basis.

The functional view of Dissemination demonstrates its architectural independence due to the limited number of cross segment interfaces as shown in . The Dissemination architecture specifies one external interface to the NARA financial system such as the Order Fulfillment and Accounting System OFAS to support consumer ordering and payment. Data manipulation is performed to allow legacy interfaces to operate unchanged and offer an open application programming interface to new applications. The benefits of our Dissemination architecture are discussed in Table 4.

Dominate one security level dominates another if and only if the hierarchical part of the first level is greater than or equal to the hierarchical part of the second level and the set of compartments associated with the first includes all of the compartments associated with the second e.g. S A dominates S and TS A dominates TS but TS does not dominate S A. Incomparable two levels are incomparable if both have compartments not present in the other e.g. TS A is incomparable to S B. property star property Data can be transmitted from instance 1 to instance 2 if either

The exemplary embodiments enable anyone to search and retrieve any records his instance dominates and enable anyone anywhere at any level to learn of the existence of a record anywhere else in federated space irrespective of dominance.

In this exemplary embodiment a federated search could be performed where the query is sent to all participating instantiations including ones at different classifications compartments if dominated by the origin instance. The system provided for release control mechanisms High Assurance Guards and or human reviewers and data diodes to govern the flow between instantiations. In the system each instance consisted of three major entities. An Archivist creates 

Broaden scope of searches as much as possible while restricting data flow to that permitted by security rules 

As each new set of records is accessioned the catalog entries will be dispersed to all federated instances.

This Second Alternative contains all the features of the First Alternative and adds some record sharing.

This Third Alternative contains all the features of the First Alternative and adds record index sharing.

This Fourth Alternative contains all the features of either the Second or Third Alternative and adds full record sharing.

While the invention has been described in connection with what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the invention. Also the various embodiments described above may be implemented in conjunction with other embodiments e.g. aspects of one embodiment may be combined with aspects of another embodiment to realize yet other embodiments.

