---

title: Associating image files with media content
abstract: Requesting and receiving image files associated with media content. The received image files are stored such that an identifier value associated with the media content is stored in the filenames of the received image files. The invention determines which of the image files is associated with specific media content by searching for the identifier value of the specific media content in the filenames of the image files.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07966551&OS=07966551&RS=07966551
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07966551
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070918
---
This application is a continuation of a U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 622 767 filed Jul. 18 2003 entitled ASSOCIATING IMAGE FILES WITH MEDIA CONTENT the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to the field of metadata for media content. In particular embodiments of this invention relate to storage and association of image files with media content.

Due to recent advances in technology computer users are now able to enjoy many features that provide an improved user experience such as playing various media and multimedia content on their personal or laptop computers. For example most computers today are able to play compact discs CDs so users can listen to their favorite musical artists while working on their computers. Many computers are also equipped with digital versatile disc DVD drives enabling users to watch movies.

In some multimedia environments a computer has access to a computer readable medium storing compressed media files such as Moving Picture Experts Group audio layer 3 MP3 files and WINDOWS MEDIA technologies audio WMA and video files. The computer typically organizes the media files into playlists when the compressed media files are played on the computer. The files may be organized according to metadata or other property data associated with the media content. Metadata for a digital media file such as an audio file includes general information pertaining to the media file itself. This information is typically stored within the file. For example an audio file may have metadata tags for the song title song artist album title and a rating. For example in the case of audio media files the files may be organized by album artist genre date or some user specified selection and ordering. A user easily navigates through this organization using menus and graphical displays to render the desired media files.

Existing systems store album art associated with media content and specified by the user in the media file. In addition existing systems download album art from metadata providers and store the downloaded art with a generic filename e.g. folder.jpg in the directory storing the media file. The generic filename convention limits each file system folder or other directory storing media content to a single item of album art. When attempting to display album art for a media file an operating system shell or the media player searches for album art stored in the media file and for album art stored via the generic filename. However the user may have directories of mixed music e.g. songs from different albums in the same directory . That is the user may store content from multiple sources in the same directory. As such the album art with the generic filename may not be associated with every item of media content in the directory. The existing systems may display the incorrect album art or prevent the user from storing media content from multiple sources in the same directory.

Accordingly a system for associating image files with media content is desired to address one or more of these and other disadvantages.

Embodiments of the invention associate an image file e.g. album art with media content by storing an identifier value associated with the media content in the filename of the image file. In an embodiment the invention selects the image file with the identifier value in the filename and displays the selected image file e.g. while rendering the media content with an application program such as a media player . The invention enables the user to store media content from multiple sources and image files associated therewith in the same directory.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a method processes a media file adapted for rendering by an application program executed by a computing device. The method includes determining whether a user selected image file corresponding to media content contained in the media file is stored in a memory accessible by the computing device executing the application program. If the user selected image file is not stored in the memory the method also includes determining whether a third party image file accessible by the computing device corresponds to the media content contained in the media file. The method includes displaying either the user selected image file or the third party image file as determined when the application program renders the media file corresponding thereto.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a method processes image files. The method includes sending from a computing device to a metadata provider an identifier value associated with a media file. The media file stores media content to be rendered with an application program executed by the computing device. The method also includes receiving metadata corresponding to the media content stored in the media file from the metadata provider in response to the sent identifier value. The received metadata includes an image file. The method also includes storing the received image file in a directory with the media file. The received image file has a filename. The filename includes an identifier value corresponding to the media content stored in the media file.

In accordance with still another aspect of the invention one or more computer readable media have computer executable components for processing a media file in response to a user selecting media content for rendering with an application program executed by a computing device. The components include a resolution component for determining whether a user selected image file is stored in a memory accessible by the computing device. The user selected image file corresponds to media content stored in the media file to be rendered with the application program executed by the computing device. The resolution component further determines whether a third party image file accessible by the computing device corresponds to the media file if the user selected image file is not stored in the memory. The method also includes a user interface component for displaying either the user selected image file or the third party image file as determined by the resolution component when the application program renders the media file corresponding thereto.

In accordance with yet another aspect of the invention a computer readable medium stores a data structure representing a file directory accessible by a computing device. The data structure includes a media file storing media content for rendering with an application program executed by the computing device. The data structure also includes an image file corresponding to the media file. The image file has a filename associated therewith. The filename includes an identifier value associated with the media content in the media file corresponding thereto.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a filename for an image file associated with a media file storing media content includes an identifier value associated with the media content. An application program executed by a computing device searches a file system for the image file using the identifier value to display the image file while rendering the media content.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an exemplary multimedia environment in which the invention may be used. A system has one or more computers coupled to one or more devices providing media content e.g. audio data video data and or image data . For example the devices may include a compact disc CD a camcorder or a camera . The computer accesses the media content as input and can render or store the media content as a digital media file to a computer readable medium .

Aspects of the invention involve associating an image file with media content contained within a media file. Each item of media content may have an identifier value associated therewith e.g. a value for the identifier WMCollectionID . The invention permits writing the identifier value into the filename of the image file for a particular item of media content. As multiple image files may be stored elsewhere and with a different naming convention e.g. for legacy reasons the invention further determines the correct image file to display as described herein see . For example when attempting to display an image file associated with a particular item of media content an operating system shell or a media player executing according to the invention searches for an image file having a filename with an identifier value embedded therein and associated with the particular item of media content.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that use of an identifier value in the filename is not merely a design choice but has certain advantages. For example the invention enables the user to store content from a plurality of sources in a single directory while providing an image file stored externally to the media content in one embodiment that is specific to each item of media content.

In one embodiment the computer stores media content on a computer readable medium for use by a media player program associated with a consumer electronic device . The consumer electronic device includes any suitable rendering filter or media player or device that is configured to render digital media so that the user can experience the content that is embodied on the medium . For example suitable media player applications include a CD media player and a DVD media player.

Media players consumer electronic devices or the like may be organized according to the capabilities of the media player. Each media player has a media type that identifies the type of media that the media player is capable of rendering. For example the media type also referred to as a playlist summary type a menu summary type or the like includes one or more of the following audio video and still image. Some media players include audio only players such as portable CD players car receivers and DVD players. Other media players further include audio and still image capable players including portable and set top DVD players optionally capable of rendering images with audio simultaneously. Other media players further include audio still image and video capable players. Exemplary consumer electronic devices include but are not limited to the following a portable CD player a Moving Picture Experts Group audio layer 3 MP3 player an audio system in an automobile a personal digital assistant a cellular telephone or the like.

One aspect of the present invention enables the user or particularly enables a media player program executing on computing device or client or computer to access retrieve and display for the user so called metadata. Those skilled in the art are familiar with metadata which is simply information about data. In the context of the present invention metadata includes information related to specific content of a digital media file being played on the media player. Basic metadata includes a title composer performer genre a description of content and the like. Extended metadata includes cover art performer biographies reviews related performers where to buy similar items upcoming concerts ticket sales network addresses e.g. uniform resource locators to other related experiences including purchase opportunities and the like.

For example the user of consumer electronic device inserts a computer readable medium that stores a digital media file into computer or otherwise causes the content of the digital media file to be experienced. In the embodiment of a metadata provider matches metadata to the specific media content that is being experienced by the user. The metadata provider includes but is not limited to a local cache a media library a user a local computing device a third party art provider or a remote server. Metadata provider returns the requested metadata to computer . For example if the media content includes audio data the metadata includes an image file such as album cover art associated with the audio data.

In the examples herein the media content of the digital media file is described in the context of content embodied on a CD or a DVD. It is to be appreciated and understood that the media content may be embodied on any suitable media including digital files downloaded to memory accessible by computer and that the specific examples described herein are given to further understanding of the inventive principles. For convenience a digital media file refers to one or more files representing for example a single song track or a collection of tracks such as would be found on an audio CD. The media content may include without limitation specially encoded media content in the form of an encoded media file.

In one embodiment an exemplary consumer electronic device media player or computer includes or has access to one or more computer readable media having computer executable components for processing a media file. The media content file is stored on a computer readable medium such as a compact disc a digital versatile disc or flash memory. In one example the metadata is available from a metadata provider via a data communication network . The computer and metadata provider are coupled to the data communication network . While the network includes the Internet in one example the teachings of the invention may be applied to any data communication network. Further the invention may be described in terms of computer acting as a client e.g. media player software requesting and receiving metadata from metadata provider acting as a server as shown in . However it is contemplated by the inventors that the invention is operable in other network systems. That is the invention is not limited to a client server network system illustrated in . For example the invention may be applicable in a peer to peer network system.

In the embodiment illustrated in the components are shown to execute on consumer device for simplicity. It is to be understood that any of the components may execute on the consumer device computer or any other computing device e.g. remote from the user or device or combination thereof. The components are further described below with reference to and . The components include a resolution component a user interface component a communications component and an authoring component . As described in greater detail herein the resolution component determines whether certain image files are stored in a memory accessible by the computing device. The image files correspond to media content stored in the media file to be rendered with the application program executed by the computing device. The user interface component displays the determined image file when the application program renders the media file corresponding thereto. The communications component sends an identifier value associated with the media file from the computing device to a metadata provider and receives metadata e.g. the image file corresponding to the media content stored in the media file from the metadata provider. The authoring component stores the received image file with a filename comprising an identifier value corresponding to the media content.

Those skilled in the art will note that the invention software may be implemented with any number and organization of components or modules. That is the invention is not limited to the specific configuration of components and . Further those skilled in the art will note that the invention may include a user interface such as the media player executing on consumer electronic device or may lack a user interface e.g. perform metadata retrieval silently in the background independent of a media player .

The invention permits the user to view image files in an operating system shell e.g. in a My Music folder as well as with the media player program while rendering media content. Image data associated with media content is stored in several locations. For example image data may be stored in the file header of the media file with a generic name in the directory storing the media file and with a filename specific to the media file e.g. having the identifier value . Further a registry key may specify the image file to display for a particular item of media content e.g. for images for customized shell folders . In addition the image files may be stored remotely from the invention software. For example the image files may be stored in a database associated with the metadata provider. A reference e.g. a URL stored in the client side media library provides access to one or more of the stored image files.

Each item of media content has an identifier value associated therewith. The identifier value may take the form of a physical identifier such as a table of contents TOC for a compact disc identifying the specific digital media file based on the offsets of each track on the disc. The TOC defined by a well known specification referred to as the Red Book identifies an audio CD based absolute times for the start of each track. The TOC found in the CD s lead in area is expected to be the same for all like entitled CDs published from the same source. Alternatively the identifier value may be associated with the actual media content e.g. a value for the identifier WMCollectionID .

The metadata provider such as metadata provider has access to a database storing in addition to other metadata electronic album cover art associated with the specific digital media file. In response to a request from computer e.g. including the received TOC or the mapped logical ID the metadata provider transmits one or more image files associated with the media file to computer .

For example exemplary files that exist in a directory with audio media content include the following Song A.Wma AlbumArtSmall.jpg Folder.jpg AlbumArt52A916D1 2BF1 4E17 AC50 03BE7CF8647A Large.jpg AlbumArt52A916D1 2BF1 4E17 AC50 03BE7CF8647A Small.jpg and desktop.ini. Song A.Wma contains the actual audio data for the song. In one embodiment this file is for use by the operating system. AlbumArtSmall.jpg is a file created by the media player that stores a small image of album art. The last media file added to the file system by the media player has its art placed in this file in a last writer wins manner. As such there can only be one such image file for a directory of content even when there is media content from more than one album in that directory. Further to this example folder.jpg is a file storing the larger version of the image and has the same behavior as AlbumArtSmall.jpg. These two art files i.e. smaller and larger versions are generally for use by the operating system. AlbumArt52A916D1 2BF1 4E17 AC50 03BE7CF8647A Small.jpg and AlbumArt52A916D1 2BF1 4E17 AC50 03BE7CF8647A Large.jpg are the image files created by the invention software. The exemplary identifier value e.g. a collection identifier such as WMCollectionID for this media content is 52A916D1 2BF1 4E17 AC50 03BE7CF8647A as determined during a previous communication with the metadata provider. The naming of these files includes the WMCollectionID of the album metadata. These files are generally for use by the media player. In some instances these image files are duplicates of AlbumArtSmall.jpg and folder.jpg.

Desktop.ini contains information for the operating system shell to use to enable a purchase experience. For example the desktop.ini file may include the following parameters.

Referring next to an exemplary flow chart illustrates operation of software to display image files associated with media content. The user inserts a computer readable medium storing a digital media file into a computer or otherwise causes the content of the digital media file to be experienced at . The media content is stored in a media file adapted for rendering by an application program executed by a computing device. The application program includes but is not limited to a media player and an operating system shell. The invention software determines whether a user selected image file corresponding to media content contained in the media file is stored in memory accessible by the computing device executing the application program at . The user selected image file is stored in various locations including but not limited to a header of the media file a shell folder a registry and a directory. For example the invention software may examine the header of the media file to determine if a user selected image file is available for the media file.

If the invention software determines that the user selected file is not available the invention determines whether a third party image file accessible by the computing device corresponds to the media content contained in the media file at . For example the invention software searches for an identifier value in a filename associated with the third party image file. The identifier value is associated with an identifier e.g. WMCollectionID and corresponds to the media content. For example the identifier value includes a globally unique identifier GUID . In one embodiment the third party image file includes actual image data or a reference e.g. a hyperlink to image data. For example in response to sending a request for all metadata available for an item of media content the invention software receives return metadata which includes a network address e.g. a URL of a location storing art for the item of media content.

If the invention software determines that the third party image file with the identifier value in the filename is not available the invention determines whether a generic third party image file e.g. folder.jpg has an image that is associated with the media file at . For example the invention software may examine the version of the media player or search for image files with any identifier values stored in the filenames associated therewith in an attempt to determine if the generic third party image file is associated with the media file. Alternatively or in addition the invention software identifies a version of the application program and determines whether the generic third party image file corresponds to the media content contained in the media file based on the identified version. If the invention determines that the generic third party image file does not apply to the media file the invention software attempts to retrieve the correct image file for the media file from for example the metadata provider at .

The invention software displays either the user selected image file or the third party image file as determined when the application program renders the media file corresponding thereto at . The invention software renders the media file with an image represented by either the user selected image file or the third party image file as determined.

An exemplary application programming interface API routine implementing the flow illustrated in includes LoadImage which returns the proper image for a given media file as shown below 

In general if the media player version is out of date or otherwise an older or previous version then the generic image file most likely corresponds to the media content within the media file. Further an older media player version implies that the media player has most likely not downloaded or stored any image file using the conventions described herein. If the media player version is current and image files exist with identifier values in their filenames but not the identifier value the invention software is searching for the invention software concludes that there is likely no image file for particular media file. The invention software either downloads the image file from the metadata provider if available or displays a default image.

One or more computer readable media have computer executable instructions for performing the method illustrated in .

Referring next to an exemplary flow chart illustrates operation of software to obtain and store image files associated with media content. The invention software executing on a computing device sends an identifier value associated with a media file to the metadata provider at . The invention software receives metadata corresponding to the media content stored in the media file from the metadata provider in response to the sent identifier value at . The received metadata includes an image file. The invention software stores the received image file in a directory with the media file at . The received image file has a filename including an identifier value corresponding to the media content stored in the media file. The invention software overwrites an existing image file stored in the directory with the received image file as necessary. The identifier value may be received from the metadata provider or generated by the invention software. The invention software generates the filename with the identifier value. The identifier value is associated with an identifier such as WMCollectionID. For example if a user stores a ten track album in a single directory i.e. all tracks have the same album art only one set of image files is stored in the directory for the tracks because all the tracks have the same WMCollectionID value i.e. the same album art . One or more computer readable media have computer executable instructions for performing the method illustrated in .

Referring next to a block diagram illustrates an exemplary computer readable medium storing media files with media content and image files according to the invention. The computer readable medium stores a data structure representing a file directory accessible by the computing device. The data structure includes one or more media files such as media file through media file N storing media content for rendering with an application program executed by the computing device. The data structure also includes one or more image files such as image file through image file M corresponding to the media files . The image files each have a filename associated therewith. The filename includes an identifier value associated with the media content in the media file corresponding thereto.

A filename for one of the image files associated with one of the media files includes an identifier value associated with the media content. For example the media file has XYZ as an identifier value and the corresponding image file has a filename such as image XYZ.jpg. The application program executed by the computing device searches a file system for the image file using the identifier value to display the image file while rendering the media content.

The computer typically has at least some form of computer readable media. Computer readable media which include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media may be any available medium that can be accessed by computer . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. For example computer storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the modulated data signal which has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. Wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media are examples of communication media. Combinations of the any of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of removable and or non removable volatile and or nonvolatile memory. In the illustrated embodiment system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. For example illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media. also shows a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives or other mass storage devices and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into computer through input devices or user interface selection devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball pen or touch pad . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are connected to processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a Universal Serial Bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers often include other peripheral output devices not shown such as a printer and speakers which may be connected through an output peripheral interface not shown .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to computer . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. LAN and or WAN can be a wired network a wireless network a combination thereof and so on. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and global computer networks e.g. the Internet .

When used in a local area networking environment computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a wide area networking environment computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to computer or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device not shown . By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on the memory device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Generally the data processors of computer are programmed by means of instructions stored at different times in the various computer readable storage media of the computer. Programs and operating systems are typically distributed for example on floppy disks or CD ROMs. From there they are installed or loaded into the secondary memory of a computer. At execution they are loaded at least partially into the computer s primary electronic memory. The invention described herein includes these and other various types of computer readable storage media when such media contain instructions or programs for implementing the steps described below in conjunction with a microprocessor or other data processor. The invention also includes the computer itself when programmed according to the methods and techniques described herein.

For purposes of illustration programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks. It is recognized however that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computer and are executed by the data processor s of the computer.

Although described in connection with an exemplary computing system environment including computer the invention is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. The computing system environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Moreover the computing system environment should not be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary operating environment. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics mobile telephones network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include but are not limited to routines programs objects components and data structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

In operation computer executes computer executable instructions such as those illustrated in to determine whether an image file is associated with media content stored in a media file. Further computer executes computer executable instructions such as those illustrated in to request receive and store the image file associated with the media file such that multiple media files from different sources may be stored in the same directory and each have at least one image file associated therewith.

The computer executable instructions may be organized into components or modules for execution by computer such as illustrated in . For example the resolution component determines whether the user selected image file is stored in a memory accessible by the computing device. The resolution component further determines whether a third party image file accessible by the computing device corresponds to the media file if the user selected image file is not stored in the memory. The user interface component displays either the user selected image file or the third party image file as determined by the resolution component when the application program renders the media file corresponding thereto. The communications component sends an identifier value associated with the media file from the computing device to the metadata provider. The communications component receives metadata corresponding to the media content stored in the media file from the metadata provider in response to the sent identifier value. The received metadata includes the third party image file.

Those skilled in the art will note that operation of software routines of the invention can be implemented in numerous ways all within the scope of the invention. For example the methods illustrated in and may be implemented as a set of application programming interfaces APIs available to the media player program and to the operating system executing on computer . In another embodiment the software routines described herein may be implemented as an application program executing on computer that interfaces with the operating system and media player program to perform the methods illustrated in and . In yet another embodiment the software routines described herein may be implemented as part of the operating system executing on computer with an API available to the media player.

The media player program or operation system shell displays the album art upon user selection in different sizes when rendering the content of the digital media file. In one embodiment the media player program has either a large or small Now Playing visualization area. These sizes correspond to the album art image file sizes downloaded from the metadata provider. Until the image files are downloaded the media player program uses a placeholder album art picture e.g. a default image . The album art files are stored in one embodiment with the following naming convention 

AlbumArtSmall.jpg 75 pixels 75 pixels and Folder.jpg 200 pixels 200 pixels . is an exemplary embodiment of a large album art image file displayed by a media player application program .

In one embodiment of the invention the operating system shell e.g. the program that enables communication between the user and the operating system implements a directory corresponding to the user s digital media files. For example a My Music folder provides the user with easy access to his or her music files. A folder view of album art may include a side panel user interface for performing various tasks and presenting additional information. This folder permits the user to view thumbnail images of album art play music create CDs search and rearrange music files and add music to playlists directly from the My Music folder. Those skilled in the art recognize that using thumbnail images is more intuitive for a user because the contents or subject of the section can be easily identified as opposed to using a general icon representing the section. Viewing album art in the My Music folder makes it easier and more fun for the user to manage his or her music. It is to be understood that similar folders may be used for organizing and managing video and other types of digital media files.

Those skilled in the art will note that the order of execution or performance of the methods illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is it is contemplated by the inventors that elements of the methods may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and that the methods may include more or less elements than those disclosed herein.

Unless otherwise noted the example album titles album cover art song titles artist names companies organizations products domain names uniform resource locators e mail addresses logos people places and events depicted herein are fictitious and no association with any real album title album cover art song title artist name company organization product domain name e mail address logo person place or event is intended or should be inferred.

When introducing elements of the present invention or the embodiment s thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

In view of the above it will be seen that the several objects of the invention are achieved and other advantageous results attained.

As various changes could be made in the above constructions products and methods without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

