---

title: Method and apparatus for identifying and tracking project trends
abstract: A method and apparatus for computer-assisted project analysis. Planned values for successive times for each of a plurality of parameters are stored in a database. Another database receives measured values of the parameters at the successive times. A statistical analysis including comparison, correlation and differentiation functions generate a set of output functions that then are displayed to assist in the analysis of the project.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE042858&OS=RE042858&RS=RE042858
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: RE042858
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070329
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This invention generally relates to computer assisted project management and more specifically to a method and system for tracking and identifying trends in a project.

The accurate identification of project trends is extremely important in determining whether a particular project is on schedule and will remain on schedule. Typically a project manager system analyst or like individual selects certain parameters or metrics relevant to a project. In complicated projects the number of possible parameters are so large that an individual generally identities a manageable subset of parameters and then determines variances correlations and the like of the parameters in the subset manually. Consequently an individual may overlook particularly important parameters. Moreover the evaluation process is very subjective and different analysts may analyze the same project using different parameters and arrive at different conclusions. Thus it is possible even for an experienced analyst to overlook certain parameters that might if they were analyzed individually or in combination with other parameters provide a conclusion on the basis of a prediction of risk that otherwise would not be identified.

Computers have been used in the field of project management but their use is usually limited to some specific areas or tasks. For example United States Letters Patent 5 229 948 1993 to Wei et al. discloses a method of optimizing a serial manufacturing system. This method provides a quantitative state space model of a serial manufacturing system that describes the processing in terms of sensitivity information and performance in terms of part production and storage retrieval. The method additionally senses new sensitivity information that results from stimulating the manufacturing system with a model using estimate system performance information and adjusting the performance information iteratively by using new sensitivity information in an optimization algorithm to provide an adjustment simultaneously with the simulation.

United States Letters Patent No. 5 452 218 1995 to Tucker et al. discloses a systems and method for determining quality analysis on fabrication and or assembly design using shop capability data. Capability data is collected and stored in a database accessible to all users. A worksheet is used to model a manufactured product using process capability data retrieved from the database. The system displays the defects and totals them according to predetermined criteria to produce a measure of quality.

United States Letters Patent No. 5 523 960 1996 to Jeong discloses a method for evaluating assembly sequences. The method includes the steps of designing an assembly composed of a plurality of parts preparing a component relation diagram indicating the joint relation between the plurality of parts reducing assembly sequences containing infeasible subassemblies by computing weights of all the subassemblies of the respective processes and evaluating the feasible assembly sequences obtained through a function that incorporates data concerning weghting cast of part joining tool changes criteria and other criteria.

United States Letters Patent No. 5 615 138 1997 to Tanaka et al. discloses a method for establishing the working mantime in a production line. This method includes numerically evaluating the work volume for a work station performed in each production process and representing the numeralized work volume as a normal work mantime. A numerical evaluation of the fatigue extent of each fatigue task as fatigue score is added to the normal work mantime. The fatigue score is also assigned a fatigue recovery mantime and the normal work mantime which included the fatigue recovery mantime is leveled as uniform thereby establishing a new production process which includes level fatigue mantime.

United States Letters Patent No. 5 692 125 1997 to Schloss et al. discloses a system and method for scheduling linked events with fixed and dynamic conditions. Events are also checked at one or more times between a scheduling time and a performance time. During this check certain dynamic conditions associated with events are checked to determine whether dynamic conditions are satisfied. If they are the events are confirmed for performance. If one or more dynamic conditions are not satisfied the events are modified. Events can be modified by canceling altering or postponing. When an event is modified a notification is transmitted and modification may cause one or more subsequent events to be modified.

Each of the foregoing references discloses a system directed to a particular narrow aspect of project management such as quality and timing. None suggest any method or apparatus for providing quantitative data that can be used to evaluate overall project performance and the steps to be taken to maintain performance. Moreover each of these methods responds only to limited subsets of data so the data being used is not comprehensive with respect to an entire project.

Therefore it is an object of this invention to provide a computer assisted method and system for analyzing and evaluating the overall state of a project.

Still another object of this invention is to provide a computer assisted method and system for providing a comprehensive analysis of the progress of a project.

Still another object of this invention is to provide a computer assisted method and system for providing quantitative measurements useful in managing a project.

In accordance with this invention the progress of a project against a plurality of predetermined project parameters includes storing in a computer processing apparatus a predetermined list of parameters and planned values for those parameters at predetermined successive intervals. Measured values of each parameter at those intervals are also stored in the apparatus. A statistical analysis conducted in the computer processing apparatus based upon the measured values and the corresponding planned values identifies a set of output functions that can be displayed as information from which an evaluation of the project process may be obtained.

A computer based system constructed in accordance with this invention includes modules that are depicted functionally in . A database module stores information concerning planned and actual values of various process or project parameters. A planned data store in the database module receives through the means of an input device a list of project parameters or metrics and a projected value of the parameter for each of successive sampling times. The sampling time may be minutes hours days weeks or months.

At each sampling time during the duration of the input device enables actual data to be loaded periodically into an actual data store with a corresponding sampling time. Typically the actual data will be stored as absolute as opposed to incremental numbers.

When it is desired to analyze a project an operator initiates a statistical analysis subsystem that includes in this particular embodiment a comparator module a correlator module and a differentiator module . Specific functions of each of these modules are described later. An output integrates and stores the output from each of the modules for each sampling time and provides data for a display from which a system analyst identifies various trends in the project.

The operation of system in can be more fully understood with reference to which represents this operation as a procedure with a start step that initializes the system and then transfers control to step where an individual uses the input device to load planned data into the planned data store . Although a large number of parameters can be loaded for purposes of understanding this invention it will be helpful to describe a hypothetical software development project in terms of three parameters. These include 1 the number of lines of code or KSLOC parameter 2 product or system design or functional requirements and 3 staff requirements. The KSLOC parameter represents the thousands of lines of code. Product requirements identify the number of different functions to be performed by the software being developed. Staffing requirements represent person years or numbers of personnel or other stalling variables. These are placed in the planned data store according to the projections or model being utilized.

Referring also to there is depicted the planned data for this hypothetical project. Graph shows an anticipation that a product or system will have 50 000 lines of code graph a planned number of requirements of 10 000 and graph planned personnel requirements that increase linearly from 50 individuals in January to 150 individuals in November. Each of these graphs assumes a one year delivery time for this project and a monthly sampling period. Data identifying these graphs would be stored in an appropriate form for each month in the planned data store in .

Once this process as shown by step in is complete control passes to step which determines whether a sample time exists. When it does as for example at the end of a month actual values for all the parameters are stored in the actual data store in step . Referring to values of 50 for the KSLOC parameter 10 000 for the product requirements parameter and 100 for the staffing requirements parameter are loaded for January.

Still referring to the graphs that are presented are based upon all the actual values entered on a monthly basis over a one year interval. Graph shows that the KSLOC parameter increased from 50 lines of code in January to 250 line s of code in December well above the planned level depicted by graph . Graph depicts an increase in the number of requirements from 10 000 to 25 000 which represents an increase over the projected or planned 10 000 requirements depicted by graph . Graph depicts the actual staffing levels which began at 100 in January decreased linearly to 50 in June and then increased back to 100 by December.

When all of the data underlying the graphs depicted in has been entered into the actual data store for a given sampling interval an external control such as an analyst choosing to activate the statistical analysis module in cause step of to obtain an analysis based upon values in data base module . Step can also be configured to monitor the accumulated input data and to determine automatically if sufficient data for an analysis has been input and proceed to activate module with no intervention by an analyst. In step the comparator module determines the variances between the planned and actual values for each parameter over time. The variances for each of the parameters depicted in are shown in . That is graphs and depict the variances in the lines of code product requirements and staff requirements for each month. From these graphs collectively an analyst can determine that the program has been increasing in software size and project requirements when compared with the base line or planned levels. It can also be seen that the program was overstaffed at the beginning of the project and then remains below the planned levels.

In step of the correlator module of provides correlation between each pair of parameters. The results for the data shown in are depicted in wherein graph depicts the correlation between the KSLOC and staffing requirement parameters graph between the product and staffing requirements parameters and graph between the KSLOC and product requirements parameters. As might be expected graph depicts a high correlation between the lines of code and product requirements parameters. This provides some level of confidence in the measurements for those two parameters. Graphs and indicate that over the first portion of the project the KSLOC and staffing requirements parameters and the product and staffing requirements parameters are negatively correlated over the first part of the project but highly correlated over thee second half of the project. This is indicative of a problem that existed early in the program but is beginning to be resolved.

At step in the differentiator module of differentiates the measured values over time to determine the rate of change of the measured values for each actual data value. Graphs and in depict the differentiator outputs for the three parameters of this example. The differentiator output of the KSLOC parameter graph indicates the actual value is increasing throughout the term but at different rates of change. Product requirements as depicted in graph are increasing with a moderating rate of change. Graph indicates staffing is decreasing as a constant rate during the first half of the project begins to increase in June then subsequently moderates after August.

At step of data for the graphs are collected in the output and transferred to the display . The displayed data for this sample project collectively describe a project with a potential problem. This specific information suggests a staffing problem because the increases in software size and requirements have not been matched by increases in stalling. Thus an analyst could begin to take corrective measures to bring the system into compliance with the planned data information by increasing staff assuming no other parameters constrain such a change. Moreover it will be apparent that such information might actually be used beginning even part way through the program as depicted in when the correlation of staffing with both lines of code and requirements was negative.

It will be apparent that these three parameters have been particularly chosen as a subset of parameters to minimize the explanation of an embodiment of this invention. In actual practice the number of parameters would be greatly increased. As the number increases the correlator module will be helpful in determining those parameters that are more reliable. The comparator and differentiator modules and then can provide additional information concerning those reliable parameters. Other parameters that might be collected for analysis purposes include the number of system or product defects discovered during testing the number of design components costs labor hours problem reports and others.

In accordance with this invention the significant time requirements for analyzing even a small subset of parameters under conventional approaches are eliminated. An individual will have more time to analyze the output data to observe trends that may indicate potential program risks and to anticipate risks based upon the data provided by this invention. Furthermore by selecting a wide set of parameters that are easily monitored it is also possible to provide a higher level of comprehensiveness and standardization of the analytical process and a quantitative assessment of the data.

Although a system constructed in accordance with this invention will comprise the comparator module correlator module and differentiator module still other modules could be added to the analysis system. For example if parameters involving frequency information are available a spectrum analysis module could be added to the statistical analysis module of .

Consequently while this invention has been disclosed in terms of certain embodiments it will be apparent that many modifications can be made to the disclosed apparatus without departing from the invention. Therefore it is the intent of the appended claims to cover all such variations and modifications as come within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

