---

title: Information architecture for the interactive environment
abstract: A system and method for providing management such as creation, manipulation, storage, control, and retrieval of digital content for a company on a global basis. Digital content is created and stored in, for example, the eXtensible Markup Language (XML) format using the relationship between component mapping information and content information comprising webpage components. The XML data is developed by defining page components, mapping the components on a page and indexing the page for future retrieval of the page. The data is then stored in a single database, as segments related to the page, for call-up by a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07992079&OS=07992079&RS=07992079
owner: American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
number: 07992079
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071013
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 769 887 entitled INFORMATION ARCHITECTURE FOR THE INTERACTIVE ENVIRONMENT filed on Jan. 25 2001 which application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 178 456 filed on Jan. 27 2000 both of which are contained herein by reference.

The invention relates generally to methods and apparatus for managing content of a company wide intranet or internet website and more particularly to systems for organizing data related in a single database so the content can be managed from a global perspective.

As more and more companies begin to provide a presence on the internet they are confronted with the issues of presentation of information and conformity within the preparation of the presentations. Various schemes have been presented to assist the companies in preparing the presentation screens that would appear on the internet website along with placing the presentation of the page in a location or locations that are linked requiring a user to traverse various web pages to obtain the presentation desired. Such approaches have included delegated authority systems have used content aggregation have provided graphical interfaces and dynamically generated web documents. Other general website management has included editing and generating information data access processing systems automatic publishing systems and group ware systems. These approaches generally demand a knowledge of the HTML operating language a capability generally only found in the website programmers and not among general employees.

The prior art generally fails to disclose a process for implementing changes to an internet website such that employees in a corporation may define and enforce a common style of page layout to provide an application that can be accessed by multiple users at the same time by an internet browser where the application allows corporate employees to manage content create new web pages process content through workflow and define new content and style which can then be provided to a user without an undue amount of searching to find the desired information. Accordingly once the presentation page is completed data elements relating to the significance of the content are utilized to store information relating to the content in various locations or sites with the various sites interconnected through the use of links. Thus to obtain the information desired a user may of necessity be forced to traverse several links to obtain the desired page with the required information.

The previously described deficiencies in the prior art are addressed in the present invention which in conjunction with a content management application provides an intranet application to provide a system for implementing changes to both an intranet or an internet website and permitting a company to manage content for its website from a global perspective. The content created and stored once can then be shared and managed across a global organization. The information architecture system is the basic underlying infrastructure that allows a company to efficiently manage its content while taking advantage of various efficiencies. The data can thus be viewed from a holistic perspective utilizing a structure of website contents that results from the relationship between objects on the physical pages i.e. appearance only instead of the prior art reliance on the significance of the data elements displayed on the page thereby providing a look and feel driven structure. The system function supports a workflow model for the launching of content and is extensible so the information architecture does not need to be expanded in order to support new data. Further the system is platform and software independent whereby the content stored in the infrastructure can be delivered on any platform with the system providing granularity of content management. In one exemplary embodiment the system makes use of the extensible Markup Language XML to store relevant content. The use of XML provides extensible data schema content reuse also known as repurposing and flexible look and feel. Since the information architecture is XML based it can be implemented either using a database XML repository or a flat file based system.

The present invention may be described herein in terms of functional block components and various processing steps. It should be appreciated that such functional blocks may be realized by any number of hardware and or software components configured to perform the specified functions. For example the software elements of the present invention may be implemented with any programming or scripting language such as C C Java PERL or the like with the various algorithms being implemented with any combination of data structures objects processes routines or other programming elements. Further it should be noted that the present invention may employ any number of conventional techniques for data transmission signaling data processing network control and the like. Still further the invention could be used to detect or prevent security issues with a scripting language such as JavaScript VBScript or the like.

It should be appreciated that the particular implementations shown and described herein are illustrative of the invention and its best mode and are not intended to otherwise limit the scope of the present invention in any way. Indeed for the sake of brevity conventional data networking application development and other functional aspects of the systems and components of the individual operating components of the systems may not be described in detail herein. Furthermore the connecting lines shown in the various figures contained herein are intended to represent exemplary functional relationships and or physical couplings between the various elements. It should be noted that many alternative or additional functional relationships or physical connections may be present in a practical electronic transaction system.

As hereinafter described the present invention is directed to a system and method for providing management such as creation manipulation storage control and retrieval of digital content for use in such as a company website on a global basis and includes support for new page layouts and component layouts i.e. support for new presentation styles whether in Hypertext Markup Language HTML Wireless Markup Language WML PDF or any other authoring language in which the presentation may be written .

Further the present invention permits content repurposing i.e. the reuse of existing content for other forms of media once the content has been produced and stored in a database. Accordingly repurposing permits use of the content in such forms as mail print or other websites or any application in which the printed or electronic word is used and which may take advantage of the content stored in the database.

The information architecture of the present invention provides for a separation of data from the presentation itself. Thus the information architecture data content not being tied to the presentation may for example enable the database to support various foreign languages formats and medias.

Referring now to there is shown at an exemplary representation of the flow diagram of the information architecture system of the present invention. The site administrator initiates a project to develop a new web page by assigning an author to create the page and its XML representation is stored in the database using a content management application system . This starts the workflow whereby the author creates the page then the author submits it for approval through various levels. Once the approvals are obtained the site administrator approves a content launch . While various scripting languages may be used in creating content and or a page by way of example only and not by way of limitation the content page is written in the extensible Markup Language XML and is stored in database as an XML file.

An external web user wishing to access the information contained in the page would request the page through a Content Delivery Application CDA translator . The CDA translator would query the database retrieve the page and translate the XML file into an HTML page or any other presentation format suitable for user s device for presentation to the user .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention is shown at . This embodiment uses a workflow group such as shown in under control of the local site administrator . The workflow group includes a content author and content approvers . Once the site administrator initiates a project and verbally communicates the user ID and password to each new user designated in the workflow designated content author creates and edits items using content management applications.

Designated content approvers review the content items produced by content author and pass them through an approval process. Content approvers mark the items as approved or rejected and when the new content has been approved by all concerned users in the workflow local site administrator launches the content to the global database . Users using web browsers interface through the worldwide web to review the launched content. In some instances the request must be processed through a firewall providing security to the global database . Again the XML file from the global database containing the requested information is processed through a CDA translator into HTML or a representation suitable for the user s device passed through the firewall and presented in an HTML or suitable representative language format on the worldwide web for access by the web user requesting the information.

Referring now to there is shown an exemplary block diagram at of a user accessing the global database of the network architecture system of the present invention. A user connects to the internet or worldwide web logging on through a firewall if such is present to a CDA translator to request information from database . The database comprising various XML files relating to the various pages stored therein in XML as Segment Segment through Segment X . Once the proper segment containing the requested page is located it is transmitted from the database to the CDA translator which translates the XML file to for example an HTML page for presentation through the firewall to the internet for presentation to user .

Referring also to exemplary screen presentations accessible by user of the network architecture system are shown. The presentations correspond to the various segments depicted in comprising the information relating to the content contained within the page.

Referring now to each exemplary information segment shown in may be seen to include a top level index to the information contained within the page segment at . The page index defines the location of page level information at . Page level information defines segment component mapping at . Information contained within page component mapping relates to component content information . Component content information contains information relating to the various parts of a page such as the navigation components the cross sell components copyright components and the like. Additionally the component content information includes page key word relationships along with the component type information . Component type information further defines the component item information used in generating various items within a page. Base element information provides information used in developing the component item information .

Accordingly corresponding structures acts and equivalents of all elements in the claims below are intended to include any structural material or acts for performing the functions in combination with other elements as specifically claimed. The scope of the invention should be determined by the allowed claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the examples given above.

