---

title: Geospatial prioritized data acquisition analysis and presentation
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a method to identify and monitor/track ships as they traverse waterways. The earth's surface is partitioned into geospatial regions with attributes of each region being stored. A priority is assigned to each partitioned region. A variety of data sources are used to collect data about ships in the geospatial regions. The data is merged and presented in geospatial or tabular formats on a graphical user interface, where the data itself, the data accuracy, and the age of the data can be visually determined graphically and chromatically from the display.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07865836&OS=07865836&RS=07865836
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07865836
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070727
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to a method to efficiently identify monitor and track commercial ships that traverse local and international waterways. In particular the present invention is directed to a method of acquiring non real time existing information about individual commercial ships from dispersed external data sources and then processing and displaying the information graphically on an electronic display such as a computer monitor.

There is a recognized need in the United States to share data and information between various government civilian and industrial organizations for the purposes of providing for Anti Terrorism Force Protection Homeland Security AT FP HLS . One aspect of AT FP HLS pertains to the sharing of data and information on maritime activities. U.S. naval and maritime assets are vulnerable to terrorist attack throughout the world. In addition the U.S. homeland is vulnerable because of its approximately 95 000 miles of coastline and via its approximately 361 ports especially those ports related to commerce through merchant shipping.

There are a significant number of commercial ships that are constantly traversing global waterways on the order of tens of thousands. Many of these ships could present a potential threat to U.S. security at the hands of terrorists. Presently there is no efficient method of identifying and tracking these ships to monitor their activities and determine potential threats. Consequently most of these ships continue to ply the waterways off the radar of U.S. scrutiny.

Existing information sources from various government civilian and industrial organizations such as government agencies like the Department of Defense the Office of Naval Intelligence and the Coast Guard the Automated Identification System and private insurance companies Lloyd s of London can provide identity location and other data for individual commercial ships. These diverse information sources are independently organized in a large number of disparate locations. Existing capabilities to collect aggregate align and analyze data across the wide spectrum of information sources are manual labor intensive time consuming error prone and do not provide a meaningful visual perspective.

Prior art systems do not encompass the global scale that is necessary to accomplish the AT FP HLS goals. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 249 241 to Jordan et al. describes a marine vessel tracking system that is directed to a specific harbor. The system collects data from a single data source namely harbor radar. It fails to consider other data regarding any vessel type from any geospatial data source at any geospatial location not just a specific harbor radar system.

What is needed is a method to efficiently acquire the aforementioned identity location and other types of data and then align aggregate correlate and visualize the data all through computer automated means in a timely fashion providing a global as well as local display of commercial shipping activity with the capacity of highlighting individual ships of interest that could pose a threat of potential terrorism.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to perform continuous efficient data acquisition from multiple disparate sources to obtain information on commercial ships.

It is a further object of the present invention to process the aforesaid information on commercial ships to provide a global as well as local display of commercial shipping activity.

The above objects are accomplished with the present invention by a method to identify and monitor track ships as they traverse waterways through the use of a networked computer and disparate external data sources. The earth s surface is partitioned into geospatial regions with attributes of each region being stored. A priority is assigned to each partitioned region. A variety of data sources are used to collect data about ships in the geospatial regions. The data is merged and presented in geospatial or tabular formats on a graphical user interface where the data itself the data accuracy and the age of the data can be visually determined graphically and chromatically from the display.

Referring initially to at the highest level the disclosed method performs continuous data acquisition from multiple disparate external data sources . These multiple disparate external data sources are existing information sources such as networked databases from various government civilian and industrial organizations that can provide identity location and other data for individual commercial marine vessels. The data is stored and then an analysis is performed whereby the data is organized according to an assigned priority. Future data acquisition is scheduled . The results of the analysis are presented in various formats through a graphical user interface that allows a user to filter the displayed data and choose various formats for the display and control the data acquisition schedule.

Referring to there is illustrated a flow diagram of the method of data source acquisition. The first step of the method is to divide the surface area of the globe into geospatial partitions of equal size. The partition size is selected to conform to a desired granularity of display and processing. The next step is to associate a knowledge cell to each geospatial partition . The knowledge cell is used to store physical attributes and statistical attributes of the associated geospatial partition that are acquired from multiple disparate external data sources . Physical attributes describe location size and shape of the partition. Statistical attributes are used to describe partition features such as data acquisition age the period of time passed since the acquisition of data from an external source geospatial area of interest activity density and contained vessels.

The next step is to make an initial acquisition of data pertaining to physical attributes and statistical attributes . As data from external data sources is acquired for each knowledge cell the data is persistently stored . The physical attributes and statistical attributes acquired from the external data sources are analyzed for each knowledge cell in order to prioritize subsequent re acquisition of data for each knowledge cell . As each knowledge cell is updated with new data gathered from external data sources the rate that the new data is obtained is tracked and examined to determine the minimum length of time to wait wait period before re acquiring data for that knowledge cell . The wait period is inversely related to the incoming data rate so knowledge cells that have a higher rate of data are updated more frequently but for shorter time intervals. Once the wait period has been exceeded for a particular knowledge cell it is considered to be overdue. A dynamic priority is assigned to each knowledge cell based on analysis of the percentage of time by which the wait period has been exceeded for the knowledge cell . For example knowledge cell with a twenty minute wait period that is ten minutes overdue i.e. fifty percent of the wait period is assigned higher dynamic priority than a knowledge cell with a one hour wait period which is twelve minutes overdue i.e. twenty percent of the wait period .

Overdue knowledge cells are an indication that new data pertaining to the associated geospatial partition needs to be acquired as soon as possible. The actual order of reacquisition of data is done such that the knowledge cells are updated with new data according to a highest dynamic priority first order of each knowledge cell .

The next step is to create a data acquisition task for each knowledge cell that has exceeded its wait period. A data acquisition task is a program or function that is specific to a single external data source . A data acquisition task gathers geospatial data that lies within specified geospatial boundaries from its specific external data source . Data acquisition tasks are automatically sorted and queued in descending order of the dynamic priority of their associated knowledge cell . Since the order that each data acquisition task is sorted depends on time the order of data acquisition tasks in the queue will change over time.

The next step is to submit the queued data acquisition tasks for execution when resources such as the network connections and external data sources become available. When resources are available the current highest priority task is submitted to an execution thread . An execution thread is a sequence of instructions which may execute in parallel with other execution threads. This parallel execution occurs by time slicing wherein a single processor switches processing between different threads. The execution thread is used to execute the data acquisition tasks. Multiple execution threads are made available in a thread pool. A thread pool is simply a collection of execution threads. The size of the thread pool is set to the maximum number of simultaneous data gathering operations which is allowed by the external source. Once an execution thread has completed executing a data acquisition task it returns to the thread pool and is made available for use for the next pending data acquisition task .

In the next step a data acquisition task is executed and data is acquired from one or more external data sources . In the next step the acquired data is merged into local data storage . The exact nature of the data acquisition task is specific to the type of external data source being accessed and the means for accessing the source. For example the type and means may include accessing a database or file via a wide area or local area network. This allows the prioritized data acquisition algorithm to be independent of the actual method by which the data is acquired. Data corresponding to a single vessel is collected over time providing a time stamped historical position history which lists the time and location for all data collected about the vessel. Attributes are updated for the associated knowledge cell . Steps through are repeated in a continuous loop thereby maintaining a constantly updated system.

Referring to there is illustrated the flow diagram of the method for the graphical user interface. In the first step each geospatial partition is displayed on the graphical user interface as a specific section of the earth s surface using a three dimensional projection of the planet. In the next step the physical attributes and statistical attributes of the knowledge cell of the associated geospatial partition are also displayed on the graphical user interface by overlaying the attributes information over the three dimensional projection of the earth. This results in a display of discrete geospatial data that is then continuously collected and refreshed as data is acquired from external sources. The next step is to assign a chromatic key to the displayed knowledge cell data so as to highlight particular attributes including the data accuracy and the age of the data which allows the user to graphically determine the attributes as displayed using the chromatic key. For example a display depicting vessel traffic densities might indicate a color ranging from blue to red with a number in each partition. The number and color indicates the relative number of vessels present in the partition with blue indicating a partition with little activity and red indicating a partition with heavy traffic. The next step is to represent each vessel within a geospatial partition as displayed with an icon indicating the position of the vessel within each geospatial partition . The next step is to allow the user to obtain additional information about the vessel by accessing the displayed icon through the user interface. For example the user can point to the icon and click on it to obtain specific information about the vessel. The next step is to provide the user the opportunity to define criteria to filter the data and attributes through the graphical user interface . The next step is to allow the user to choose from a variety of chromatic scales associated with a criteria and can select the data that is being displayed in a particular color. For example a user might choose a criterion of data acquisition age which would display a map indicating which geospatial areas are out of date displayed on the GUI in the color yellow. The next step is to provide the user with control selections to establish data display filter characteristics through the graphical user interface . For example a user may wish to only display vessels which fly the flag of a certain country. In that case only those vessels icons would be visible on the display and any related color coding would be updated to reflect the new filtered view. The GUI presents information in a variety of display formats including the geospatial display described above. In addition attribute data can be displayed in tabular and geo tabular formats to suit the needs of the user. The geo tabular format represents information that is specific to geospatial partitions. In step attribute data is displayed in tabular format in tables. In step attribute data is displayed in geo tabular format in tables and cells which correspond to each geospatial partition s geographic location. In step user commands and adjustable parameters are accepted through the graphical user interface. The user interface provided allows the user to select individual geospatial regions as illustrated in step and manually adjust their data gathering rate to override the automatic data acquisition task priority ordering as illustrated in step . In the final step the user is provided a means to select an individual geospatial region to force an immediate data gathering operation on that region.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

