---

title: Monte Carlo based model of fluorescence in turbid media and methods and systems for using same to determine intrinsic fluorescence of turbid media
abstract: The subject matter described herein includes a method for modeling fluorescence in turbid media and methods and systems for using the model to determine intrinsic fluorescence of turbid media. According to one aspect, a method for modeling fluorescence of a turbid medium and for using the model to determine intrinsic fluorescence in the turbid medium is provided. The method includes illuminating a turbid medium of interest with an electromagnetic radiation source using a probe of a particular geometry and detecting measured fluorescence for the turbid medium using the probe. At least one set of Monte Carlo simulations is run to determine an escape energy probability map and an absorbed energy density map for the turbid medium. An indication of the intrinsic fluorescence of the turbid medium is determined using the escape probability density map and the absorbed energy density map in a manner that accounts for the geometry of the probe.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07818154&OS=07818154&RS=07818154
owner: Duke University
number: 07818154
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070316
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 783 613 filed Mar. 17 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This presently disclosed subject matter was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. 1R01CA00599 01A1 and Grant No. 5T32CA009206 27 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. Thus the U.S. Government has certain rights in the presently disclosed subject matter.

The subject matter described herein relates to analyzing fluorescence spectra of turbid media. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to a Monte Carlo based model of fluorescence spectra of turbid media and methods and systems for using the model to determine an indication of intrinsic fluorescence of turbid media.

Fluorescence spectroscopy has been used successfully for discriminating malignancy at a number of organ sites Ramanujam 2000 1 . However due to the complex interplay of absorption scattering and fluorescence interaction in turbid media such as biological tissue it can be difficult to separate the effects of fluorescence from absorption and scattering thus making these spectra difficult to interpret.

To address this issue a number of groups have proposed methods for determining the fluorophore concentration of intrinsic fluorescence spectra i.e. the fluorescence properties independent of absorption and scattering from a measured fluorescence spectrum see e.g. Sinaasappel Sterenborg 1993 Wu et al. 1993 Durkin et al. 1994 Gardner et al. 1996 Zhadin Alfano 1998 Ramanujam 2000 Zhang et al. 2000 Muller et al. 2001 Weersink et al. 2001 Biswal et al. 2003 Diamond et al. 2003 Swartling et al. 2003 Chang et al. 2006 2 14 . These approaches include empirical calibration diffusion theory modeling and Monte Carlo modeling of fluorescence. However these approaches have generally been limited in that they are valid for only a limited range of absorption and scattering they require extensive empirical calibration and or they are not flexible in their applicability to a range of probe geometries.

What are needed then are robust methods for extracting intrinsic fluorescence from turbid media. To address this need at least in part the subject matter described herein includes a Monte Carlo based model of fluorescence of turbid media and methods and systems for using the model to determine intrinsic fluorescence of turbid media.

The subject matter described herein includes a method for modeling fluorescence in turbid media and methods and systems for using the model to determine intrinsic fluorescence of turbid media. According to one aspect a method for modeling fluorescence of a turbid medium and for using the model to determine intrinsic fluorescence in the turbid medium is provided. The method includes illuminating a turbid medium of interest with an electromagnetic radiation source using a probe of a particular geometry and detecting measured fluorescence for the turbid medium using the probe. At least one set of Monte Carlo simulations is run to determine an escape energy probability map and an absorbed energy density map for the turbid medium. An indication of the intrinsic fluorescence of the turbid medium is determined using the escape probability density map and the absorbed energy density map in a manner that accounts for the geometry of the probe.

As used herein the term turbid medium includes a medium that has at least one of scatters and absorbers that reduce the amount of incident light that reaches fluorophores in the medium and or that reduce the amount of photons emitted from fluorophores in the medium that escape the medium. One example of a turbid medium with which the subject matter described herein may be used is biological tissue such as a human tissue sample

As used herein the phrase intrinsic fluorescence refers to a quantity of emitted by fluorophores in a turbid medium that is independent of the presence of scatters or absorbers in the turbid medium.

The subject matter disclosed herein includes a Monte Carlo based model of fluorescence in turbid medium and methods and systems for using the model to determine an indication of intrinsic fluorescence of the turbid medium. illustrates an exemplary system in which the presently disclosed subject matter may be used. In a probe and an electromagnetic radiation source detector may be used to illuminate a turbid medium and detect fluorescence generated by fluorophores present in turbid medium . However due to the presence of scatterers and absorbers some of the incident photons indicated by solid arrows in will not contact fluorophores in turbid medium because the incident photons will be scattered or absorbed. In addition even when the incident photons contact fluorophores and cause fluorophores to emit fluorescent photons the emitted fluorescent photons indicated by the dotted arrows in may likewise be scattered or absorbed by scatterers or absorbers . Further even for the emitted fluorescent photons that exit turbid medium only a portion will be detected by probe due to its detection surface geometry. In addition the emission surface geometry of probe results in less than complete coverage of turbid medium with incident photons. As a result scattering absorption and probe geometry must be accounted for in a model that determines intrinsic fluorescence of turbid medium .

In order to account for the effects of probe geometry scatters and absorbers on fluorescence measurements the system illustrated in includes a processor that runs one or more simulations to generate a model of fluorescence in turbid media and that uses the model to generate an indication of the intrinsic fluorescence of the turbid medium. Processor may receive as input simulation start parameters such as a set of arbitrarily selected optical properties of a turbid medium. In one implementation these optical properties may include absorption coefficient scattering coefficient anisotropy factor and refractive index. If the indication of intrinsic fluorescence to be determined is the concentration of one or more fluorophores processor may receive as input fluorophore characteristics such as the extinction coefficient of the fluorophore at the excitation wavelength the probability that a photon absorbed by a fluorophore will generate fluorescence and the spectral probability distribution of the generated fluorescence at the emission wavelength. If these properties of the fluorophore are determined then the concentration of the fluorophore in turbid medium can be determined. If these properties and not provided as input to processor the indicator of intrinsic fluorescence may be an alternate measure of intrinsic fluorescence such as the product of the quantum yield and the fluorophore concentration.

Returning to in block at least one set of Monte Carlo simulations is run to determine escape energy probability map and absorbed energy density map for the turbid medium. In one exemplary implementation two separate sets of Monte Carlo simulations may be run one for photons originating from outside of a turbid medium to determine the absorbed energy density map and another for photons emitted from within the turbid medium to determine the escape energy probability map. In an alternate implementation a single Monte Carlo simulation may be run for photons emitted from within the turbid medium to determine the escape energy probability map and a reciprocity principle may be used to determine the absorbed energy density map. Details of the Monte Carlo simulations are described below.

In step an indication of the intrinsic fluorescence of the turbid medium is determined accounting for the probe geometry and using the measured fluorescence the absorbed energy density map and the escape energy probability map. In one implementation as will be described below the indication of intrinsic fluorescence is the product of the quantum yield and the concentration of one or more fluorophores. In an alternate implementation the indication of the intrinsic fluorescence is the actual concentration of the fluorophore. The probe geometry is accounted for in the determination using a convolution operation that considers the surface areas of the collection and illumination fiber s of the probe and photons escaping the turbid medium emitted from a point source within the medium. Because the probe geometry is accounted for in the determination the present subject matter may be used to determine the indication of the intrinsic fluorescence given fluorescence measured by any probe geometry. In addition the indication of the intrinsic fluorescence is independent of absorption and scattering effects of the turbid medium.

In an analogy the present subject matter converts fluorescence measurement made in a turbid medium such as milk to a measurement made in a translucent medium such as water. Once the measurement has been converted to a value that would have been measured in a translucent medium the fluorophore concentration can be determined given known properties of the fluorophore of interest such as quantum yield. The Monte Carlo based model for effecting this conversion will now be described in detail.

In the present approach the Monte Carlo based model of diffuse reflectance described in Palmer and Ramanujam 2006 15 16 is first used to extract the optical properties of the turbid medium. As stated above the optical properties may include scattering coefficient absorption coefficient anisotropy factor and refractive index of the turbid medium. The optical properties are incorporated into the model of fluorescence to incorporate the intrinsic fluorescence from the turbid medium into the model.

Swartling et al. 2003 outline a technique wherein a single Monte Carlo simulation can generate the fluorescence spectrum for any set of optical properties . Their approach is the break the Monte Carlo simulation into two separate simulations one dealing with the excitation light traveling from the light source to the tissue fluorophore and one dealing with the emitted fluorescence traveling from the fluorophore to the detector. In this way each of the two component simulations can be scaled using a variety of approaches to any arbitrary set of optical properties. One exemplary implementation of the subject matter described herein follows their approach with a few notable differences. First the scaling relations described by Graff et al. 1993 17 were incorporated into the present model to enable the fluorescence model to be scaled to any arbitrary set of optical properties. These scaling relationships have the advantage of being able to accurately describe the effects of absorption outside of the diffusion regime. Secondly the quasi discrete Hankel transform described in Li et al. 1998 18 was used to convolve the absorption and emission simulation data enabling greater speed which is important for clinical applications. Third a convolution scheme described in Palmer and Ramanujam 2006 15 was used to model the probe geometry enabling this model to be applied to any arbitrary probe geometry. Finally a framework is developed by which these forward simulation techniques can be applied to perform the reverse problem of determining the intrinsic fluorescence properties from measured fluorescence spectra. This is done by incorporating a diffuse reflectance Monte Carlo model to calculate optical properties which are then used to solve for the intrinsic fluorescence properties of the tissue independent of absorption and scattering as outlined below.

As described above either a single set of Monte Carlo simulations or two sets of Monte Carlo simulations may be run to determine the absorbed and escape energy density maps. In the present example a single set of Monte Carlo Simulations was run to determine an escape energy density map and an absorbed energy density map using a reciprocity principle. In this example Monte Carlo simulations were run to generate an escape fluorescence energy probability map E r z . Photons were launched over a series of depth increments from within a turbid medium with an arbitrary set of optical properties. In this example the depth increments used ranged from 0 to 1 cm in 0.005 cm increments with 100 000 photons being launched at each increment. A depth of 1 cm was chosen since depths greater than this were found to have negligible contribution to the measured fluorescence. The following parameters were used absorption coefficient 0.01 cm scattering coefficient 150 cm anisotropy factor g 0.8 refractive index of fiber 1.47 refractive index of medium 1.335 phantom or 1.40 tissue . Again these optical properties are arbitrary and are simply used as starting parameters for the simulations. Photons which escape to the surface of the medium and are within the numerical aperture NA of the fiber in the present example the NA is assumed to be 0.12 were stored in an array containing the exit weight launch depth z net radial distance traveled r and number of interactions within the medium prior to escape. Having this information it is possible to scale this escape energy probability map E r z to that which would have been obtained from any arbitrary set of optical properties using the scaling relations of Graaff et al. 1993 17 . It is also possible using the principle of reciprocity to determine how much light energy would be absorbed at a given location within the medium were the photon launched at the surface of the tissue using a fiber with a specific numerical aperture. The difference in solid angle between the acceptance of light by the absorber 4 and the limited acceptance angle of the fiber defined by the NA must be accounted for. Swartling et al. derived the effect of a difference in solid angle between the source and collection and using this factor the relationship between E r z and A r z is given by 

Where is the solid angle corresponding to the fiber s numerical aperture and is the absorption coefficient at the excitation wavelength. This relationship allows for the need for only a single set of simulations to be run for generating both the escaping energy and absorption grid and also enables the elimination of a radial grid as used by Swartling et al. 2003 which can lead to inaccuracies at short source detector separations . However as described above the present subject matter is not limited to using a single set of simulations to determine the absorbed energy density map and the escape energy probability map. In an alternate implementation separate sets of simulations may be used to determine the absorbed energy density map and the escape energy probability map without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein.

Not all of this deposited energy is converted to fluorescence as some is lost due to non fluorescent absorption. The probability of an absorbed photon generating a fluorescent photon at a given emission wavelength is given by Swartling et al. 2003 11 as 

Where is the effective quantum yield for a given excitation emission wavelength pair in the medium of interest is the fluorescence quantum yield is the absorption coefficient of the fluorophore at the excitation wavelength is the total absorption coefficient of all absorbers in the medium at the excitation wavelength m is the emission wavelength and is the spectral probability distribution of the generated fluorescence as a function of the emission wavelength. This equation thus takes into account the probability that a photon absorbed by the fluorophore will generate fluorescence the probability an absorbed photon will be absorbed by the fluorophore rather than another absorber and the probability that a generated fluorescent photon will be emitted at the collected emission wavelength the remaining terms .

Given the deposited energy grid and Eq. 2 it is then possible to determine the location and intensity of fluorescence generated as a function of emission wavelength at all points within the medium for any given set of optical properties at the excitation wavelength and fluorescence properties . This is accomplished by taking the product of the absorbed energy and . Thus the fluorescence generated at each grid element is given by 3 

Where Fis the fluorescence energy density created within the medium and A is the absorbed energy density each as a function of depth and radial distance. The radially dependent fluorescence generated at a given depth is then convolved with the escape probability function to obtain the exit probability of fluorescent photons escaping the surface of the medium to be collected. The quasi discrete Hankel transform described by Li et al 1998. was used to perform this convolution . Summing over the entire range of depths within the medium gives the total emitted fluorescence as a function of radial distance. Thus the emitted fluorescence is given by 

Where F r is the radially dependent fluorescence exiting the surface of the tissue and Fis the generated fluorescence at a particular radial distance r and depth z . E r z gives the probability that a photon originating at a depth z will exit the surface a radial distance r from its point of origin. z gives the grid size in the depth dimension for each summed grid element. This gives the fluorescence emitted from the surface of the medium given a point source illumination. Convolution following the method of Li et al. 1998 18 is used to account for the specific probe geometry used. Briefly this method includes convolving fluorescent photons emitted from point sources at different locations within the turbid medium with the collection surface area of the fiber optic probe. As a result of the model incorporating or accounting for the probe geometry the model may be used to extract an indication of intrinsic fluorescence from measurements made using any suitable probe geometry.

Note that since is a scalar owing to the associative property of convolution substituting Eq. 3 into Eq. 4 it can be taken out of the summation in Eq. 4 as 

The terms within the summation depend only on the optical properties of the medium at the excitation and emission wavelengths and not on the fluorescence properties of the medium. In particular A is a function of the optical properties at the excitation wavelength and E is a function of the optical properties at the emission wavelength. Furthermore note that in Eq. 2 for a known fluorophore the wavelength dependent extinction coefficients and emission spectra are known. can thus be expressed as the product of the fluorophore concentration the quantum yield and a set of wavelength dependent constants as shown below 

Where C is the fluorophore concentration and is the extinction coefficient of the fluorophore at the excitation wavelength. Thus for a known fluorophore it is possible to determine the product of the quantum yield and concentration of the fluorophore from the fluorescence spectra using this approach. Incorporating the specific probe geometry used and combining Equations 5 and 6 we get 

Where Fis the fluorescence measured using a particular probe geometry given the optical and fluorescence properties C of the medium and P r gives the probability that a photon which exits the surface of the medium a distance r from the point of origin will be collected by the collection fiber for the probe geometry used this is obtained using convolution as per Palmer and Ramanujam 2006 15 . S is a scaling factor necessary to account for the difference in magnitude between the Monte Carlo simulations which are on an absolute scale and the measured result which is typically relative to a fluorescence standard . This factor must be determined using a phantom measurement in order to pool data collected using different instruments or probe geometries. For a single instrument setup it can be set to unity to leave the data on a relative scale.

The model described above was tested using synthetic tissue phantoms. Phantoms were made using Hemoglobin Catalogue No. H0267 Sigma Aldrich Corp. St. Louis Mo. United States of America as the absorber furan 2 Exiton Inc. Dayton Ohio as the fluorophore and polystyrene spheres Catalogue No. 07310 Polysciences Inc. Warrington Pa. United States of America as the scatterer. Three sets of phantoms were prepared having low medium and high scattering properties. Into each phantom 0.6 g ml of furan 2 was added and varying concentrations of hemoglobin were added in to change the absorption properties of the medium yielding a total of 11 phantoms. The absorption coefficient was determined using a spectrophotometer Cary 300 Varian Inc. Palo Alto Calif. United States of America and the scattering coefficient was calculated using Mie theory taking into account the wavelength dependent refractive index of polystyrene spheres and water . Table 1 summarizes the optical properties of the phantoms used over the wavelength range of 300 800 nm. Phantoms 1 4 correspond to low scattering 5 8 correspond to medium scattering and 9 11 correspond to high scattering. Within each scattering level as the phantom number increases more hemoglobin has been added so the absorption coefficients increase while the scatterer is diluted slightly so the scattering coefficients decrease. The SPEX SkinSkan fluorometer HORIBA Jobin Yvon Inc. Edison N.J. United States of America and probe 15 16 were used for making all experimental measurements.

The diffuse reflectance 300 800 nm and fluorescence 330 nm excitation were measured from each sample by placing the probe just in contact with the surface of the phantom. Then the diffuse reflectance was used to extract the optical properties of each sample using a Monte Carlo model of diffuse reflectance using procedures described in Palmer and Ramanujam 2006 15 . In addition the known optical properties taken from Mie theory and the spectrophotometer measurement were used as inputs to the fluorescence model. This allows for an assessment of the propagation of errors from the reflectance model to the fluorescence model. In order to illustrate the effectiveness of the model in determining the prevalence of the fluorophore within the medium Equation 8 was solved for the product 

The concentration was divided out to account for the fact that as absorber was added the fluorophore concentration was diluted slightly. Assuming that the quantum yield is constant in each of the phantoms this quantity plotted as a function of wavelength should indicate the ability of this method to both extract the concentration and retrieve the intrinsic fluorescence line shape. The ideal result would yield overlapping curves for each of the phantoms with identical intensities and line shapes. The degree to which these quantities deviate from each other indicates the errors that would be obtained in calculating the fluorophore concentrations. The quantum yield was not determined for this fluorophore but using a quantum yield of 1 S was calculated to be 569 16 averaged across all phantoms. Note that as applied to tissue Equation 8 would be solved for the product 

It can be seen that the model corrects for the original large differences in magnitude and line shape present due to the differences in absorption and scattering in each of the phantoms. The concentration could be solved for in Equation 8 by assuming the quantum yield was fixed for all phantoms and setting the scaling factor S to be equal to the mean value obtained from each of the phantoms determined to be 569 16. The RMS error in extracting the concentration of furan in these phantoms using Equation 8 at the peak emission wavelength is 12 .

The subject matter described herein a methodology by which the intrinsic fluorescence spectra can be extracted from combined fluorescence and diffuse reflectance spectral data which are commonly measured in a variety of clinical and preclinical studies. This allows for more biologically relevant interpretation of these data since they can be more directly related to underlying tissue properties fluorophore concentrations or microenvironment . The application of this model to phantoms was relatively straightforward since all of the constituents were known and well characterized and reasonably good results were obtained in extracting the intrinsic fluorescence line shape and fluorophore concentration. The significant advantages of this model include 1 it does not require any assumptions regarding the underlying fluorescence properties in order to calculate the intrinsic fluorescence spectra 2 it is able to account for any arbitrary probe geometry 3 it does not require extensive empirical calibration and can easily be adapted to any probe geometry and 4 it is accurate for cases of high absorption and small source detector separation.

The subject matter described herein can be used to extract intrinsic fluorescence from biological tissues. The application of the subject matter described herein to tissue can be challenging due to the presence of multiple absorbers scatterers and fluorophores of uncertain properties. However the reflectance model referenced herein has been applied to tissue data and the addition of the fluorescence model is relatively straightforward since it does not require any assumptions regarding the properties of the fluorophores in order to retrieve the intrinsic fluorescence. It may be desirable to obtain the actual concentration of the fluorophore however this does require some additional knowledge of the fluorophore properties that steady state fluorescence measurements cannot provide including the quantum yield and fluorophore extinction coefficient.

In conclusion the subject matter described herein includes a methodology by which the intrinsic fluorescence spectra can be extracted from tissue fluorescence spectra. This approach is flexible in is application to any arbitrary probe geometry and is also valid in the UV VIS where absorption is high relative to scattering. Furthermore though it was applied in this case to endogenous sources of fluorescence it could also be used to characterize the prevalence of exogenous sources of fluorescence.

The disclosures of all of the references listed herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

