---

title: Methods, systems, and computer program products for binary multiplexing x-ray radiography
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer program products for binary multiplexing x-ray radiography are disclosed. According to one aspect, the subject matter described herein can include irradiating an object with composite x-ray beams including signals based on a predetermined binary transform. Further, the subject matter described herein can include detecting x-ray intensities associated with the signals of the composite x-ray beams. An inverse binary transform can be applied to the detected x-ray intensities associated with the signals of the composite x-ray beams to recover the signals of the composite x-ray beams.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08189893&OS=08189893&RS=08189893
owner: North Carolina State University
number: 08189893
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070521
---
The presently disclosed subject matter claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 802 260 filed May 19 2006 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This work was supported at least in part by a grant from the National Institute of Health and the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering NIH NIBIB Grant No. 4 R33 EB004204 02 and a grant from the National Cancer Institute NCI Grant No. U54CA119343 . Thus the U.S. Government may have certain rights in the presently disclosed subject matter.

The subject matter described herein relates to x ray radiography. More specifically the subject matter describes methods systems and computer program products for binary multiplexing x ray radiography.

X ray radiation is widely used in many areas including medical diagnostics and treatment industrial inspection and testing security screening and detections. Current x ray sources are mostly based on a thermionic cathode to generate electron beam which is accelerated to high energy to bombard a metal target to generate x ray. Thermionic cathode based x ray sources cannot be easily switched on off rapidly and the x ray flux cannot be easily controlled due to the slow response of thermal process and the nonlinear relationship between the cathode current and the electron beam current. At the same time the hot filament based x ray tube is generally bulky due to the heating and insulation parts required for the filament heating. It is in principle difficult to integrate multiple x ray units together to form an integrated multi beam x ray source which can provide multiple x ray beams simultaneously.

Recently x ray generating devices and methods based on nanostructure containing field emission cathodes have been developed. Examples of such x ray generating devices and methods are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 553 096 6 850 595 and 6 876 724. These devices and methods provide several advantages over conventional hot filament based x ray tubes. Firstly the field emission x ray FEX source can be easily triggered to generate x ray pulse in arbitrary temporal waveform. This feature can enable new radiography imaging techniques that are not possible or practical with conventional x ray sources. Secondly the field emission x ray source operates at room temperature which is much lower than conventional hot filament based x ray tubes. Further because there is no heat it is free of bulky insulation or ventilation components so such a device is much smaller than conventional machines.

It would be beneficial to provide x ray radiography systems and methods having reduced data collection times enhanced signal to noise ratios and better x ray source power distribution. One or more such improvements can enable new x ray imaging and x ray analysis applications. Accordingly it is desirable to provide x ray radiography systems and methods having one or more of these improvements.

It is an object of the presently disclosed subject matter to provide novel methods systems and computer program products for binary multiplexing x ray radiography.

An object of the presently disclosed subject matter having been stated hereinabove and which is achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other objects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.

The subject matter disclosed herein is directed to a multiplexing x ray radiographic technique that utilizes a multi beam x ray source an x ray detector and binary transform techniques. Particularly the radiographic techniques disclosed herein according to one aspect are referred to herein as binary multiplexing x ray radiography BMXR . In accordance with the BMXR techniques disclosed herein during the data collection process an on off state also referred to as the binary state of a multi beam x ray source follows the form of a predetermined binary transform. The on off states of the x ray source can generate x ray beams including signals based on the predetermined binary transform. An object can be irradiated with the generated x ray beams. After irradiation of an object transmitted or fluorescent x ray beams can be detected by an x ray detector which records x ray intensities of the multiplexing x ray signals corresponding to the binary states of the x ray source. The recorded x ray intensity data can then be processed through an inverse binary transform to recover the original x ray signals generated from each beam of the multi beam x ray source.

BMXR enables many new x ray imaging and x ray analysis applications. By using different forms of binary transforms BMXR can reduce data collection time enhance signal to noise ratio SNR and provide better power distribution of an x ray source in digital radiography and fluorescence spectroscopy. By use of a multi beam x ray source BMXR can allow parallel imaging spectroscopy analysis of an object from multiple x ray beams simultaneously using a single detector. BMXR can enhance the imaging speed in computed tomography CT tomosynthesis fluoroscopy angiography multi energy radiography and x ray fluorescence spectroscopy analysis. Suitable applications of BMXR include medical diagnostics and treatment industrial non destructive testing NDT and x ray fluorescence XRF analysis and security screening and detections.

As referred to herein the term nano structured or nanostructure material can designate materials including nanoparticles with particle sizes less than 100 nm such as nanotubes e.g. carbon nanotubes . These types of materials have been shown to exhibit certain properties that have raised interest in a variety of applications.

As referred to herein the term multi beam x ray source can designate devices that can simultaneously generate multiple x ray beams. For example the multi beam x ray source can include a field emission based multi beam x ray source having electron field emitters. The electron field emitters can include nano structured materials based materials.

As referred to herein the term binary transform can refer to the concept of multiplexing techniques including Hadamard transforms and other suitable binary transforms. Generally the binary transform can be presented by a binary transform matrix whose elements are either 1 or 0 which represents the on or off state of the signal source respectively. Binary transforms such as Hadamard transforms can be applied to various kinds of applications including microscopy optical spectroscopy mass spectrometry and magnetic resonance imaging MRI .

For monochromatic imaging a system in accordance with the subject matter described herein can include a monochromator configured to generate a monochromatic x ray beam for imaging an object. The monochromator can generate multiple monochromatic x ray beams having either the same or different x ray energies for monochromatic x ray imaging.

The binary state of the signals of x ray beams XB can be based on a predetermined binary transform. Particularly the signals can follow the form of a predetermined binary transform matrix. The binary state of the signals of the x ray beams can be based on a pattern of 0 and 1 elements in the predetermined binary transform matrix.

After passing through object O x ray beams XB can be detected by a high frame rate x ray detector XD. X ray detector XD can continuously capture the composite x ray beams XB. After all or at least a portion of x ray beams XB are collected and stored as x ray signal data in a memory an inverse binary transform function IBTF can apply an inverse binary transform to the stored x ray signal data to recover the original set of generated signals.

Using the same principle of binary transform technique BMXR in accordance with the subject matter described herein can be used to obtain multi projection images of an object from multiple x ray sources simultaneously using a single detector. This imaging technique can enhance the imaging speed in CT tomosynthesis fluoroscopy e.g. digital fluoroscopy angiography and multi energy radiography. Further this imaging technique can lead to enhanced detection speed in industrial applications such as non destructive testing NDT x ray fluoroscopy XRF and diffraction.

The binary state of the signals of x ray beams XB XB and XB can be based on a predetermined binary transform. Particularly the signals can follow the form of a predetermined binary transform matrix. The binary state of the signals of the x ray beams can be based on a pattern of 0 and 1 elements in the predetermined binary transform matrix. The following equation represents an exemplary 3 3 binary transform matrix suitable for a source projecting three x rays beams.

After passing through object O x ray beams XB can be detected by x ray detector XD. X ray detector XD can continuously capture the composite x ray beams XB. In one example x ray detector XD can include an array or a matrix of x ray photo diode detectors for detecting x ray beams. In another example x ray detector XD can include an array or a matrix of photon counting x ray detector elements for detecting x ray beams. Further for example x ray detector XD can be configured to record x ray signals at a fast frame rate.

After all or at least a portion of x ray beams XB are collected and stored as x ray signal data in a memory an inverse binary transform function IBTF can apply an inverse binary transform to the stored x ray signal data to recover the original individual projection images PI PI and PI. In this manner each individual x ray source can be turned on multiple times during the imaging process. Thus data acquisition speed can be greatly enhanced due to more efficient use of the x ray source. The more efficient use of the x ray source can enhance the imaging speed for CT and tomosynthesis.

According to one aspect of the subject matter disclosed herein a Hadamard multiplexing radiography is provided. The Hadamard transform is a particular example of a binary matrix transform that can be used in accordance with the present subject matter. As noted previously any other suitable binary transform can be used. Hadamard transform includes encoding signals using a spatial modulation technique which is inherently based on square waves on off state of the signal source rather than trigonometric functions. Hadamard transform instruments can include the following a signal source an encoding Hadamard mask configured based on a corresponding Hadamard matrix a detector and a demultiplexing processor. The Hadamard transform technique superposes signals according to the Hadamard matrix. The original signals can be directly recovered from the recorded multiplexed signals by applying the inversed Hadamard transformation.

In accordance with the subject matter described herein a multi pixel x ray source including multiple field emission x ray sources or pixels and operable based on Hadamard multiplexing radiography techniques is provided. The multi pixel x ray source can include a multi pixel field emission cathode with a linear array of gated electron emitting pixels. is a schematic cross section side view of a multi pixel field emission x ray source generally designated according to an aspect of the subject matter described herein. Referring to x ray source can include a plurality of electron field emitters FE FE for emitting electrons. Electron field emitters FE FE can comprise one or more carbon nanotubes and or other suitable electron field emission materials. Further electron field emitters FE FE can be attached to a surface of respective cathodes C conductive or contact line or other suitable conductive material. Although three linearly arranged electron field emitters are shown in this example a multi pixel x ray source in accordance with the subject matter described herein can include any suitable number and arrangement of electron field emitters.

Electron field emitters FE FE can be controlled by a suitable controller C including metal oxide semiconductor field effect transmitter MOSFET circuitry MC and binary transform function BTF. Controller C can control voltage sources to apply voltages between electron field emitters FE FE and gate electrodes GE GE respectively to generate respective electric fields for extracting electron from electron field emitters FE FE to thereby produce respective electron beams EB EB. In particular controller C can individually operate a plurality of MOSFETs in MOSFET circuitry MC for individually controlling field emitters FE FE to emit electrons. The drains of the MOSFETs can be connected to a corresponding one of cathodes C C for controlling electron beam emission by respective emitters FE FE. The MOSFETs can be turned on and off by the individual application of high signal e.g. 5 V and a low signal e.g. 0 V respectively to the gates of MOSFETs. When a high signal is applied to the gate of a MOSFET a drain to source channel of the transistor is turned on to apply a voltage difference between a respective cathode C C and a respective gate electrode GE GE. A voltage difference exceeding a threshold can generate an electric field between a respective cathode C C and a respective gate electrode GE GE such that electrons are extracted from respective electron field emitters FE FE. Conversely when a low voltage e.g. 0 V is applied to the gate of a MOSFET a corresponding drain to source channel is turned off such that the voltage at a respective electron field emitter FE FE is electrically floating and the voltage difference between a respective cathode C C and a respective gate electrode GE GE cannot generate an electric field of sufficient strength to extract electrons from the respective electron field emitter FE FE. In one example each x ray pixel can provide a tube current of between 0.1 and 1 mA at 40 kVp. Controller C is operable to apply voltage pulses of different frequencies to the gates of the MOSFETs. Thus controller C can individually control the frequencies of the electron beam pulses from field emitters FE FE.

Further x ray source can include an anode A having a plurality of focus spots bombarded by a corresponding electron beam. A voltage difference can be applied between anode A and gate electrodes GE GE such that respective fields are generated for accelerating electrons emitted by respective electron field emitters FE FE toward respective target structures of anode A. The target structures can produce x ray beams having predetermined signals upon bombardment by electron beams EB EB. X ray source can include focusing electrodes FEL FEL for focusing electrons extracted from respective electron field emitters FE FE on the target structures and thus reduce the size of electron beams EB EB. Focusing electrodes FEL FEL can be controlled by application of voltage to focusing electrodes FEL FEL by a voltage source. The gate voltage can be varied depending on required flux. In one example the focal spot size of each electron beam EB EB on anode A is about 200 m.

Electron field emitters FE FE and gate electrode GE GE can be contained within a vacuum chamber with a sealed interior at about 10torr pressure. The interior of the vacuum chamber can be evacuated to achieve a desired interior pressure. Electron beams EB EB can travel from the interior of the vacuum chamber to its exterior through an electron permeable portion or window. In one example the electron permeable portion or window can be a 4 diameter beryllium Be x window. X ray beams having distinct signals can be generated by the electron bombardment of anode A by electron beams of distinct signals. Further anode A can be suitably shaped and or angled such that the generated x ray beams are transmitted toward an object from a plurality of different viewing angles.

In one aspect binary transform function BTF can control MOSFET circuitry MC to turn off and on electron field emitters FE such that electron beams EB EB carry signals in a pattern of 0 and 1 elements in a predetermined Hadamard binary transform matrix. Corresponding x ray beams generated by bombardment of anode A with electron beams EB EB can also carry the same signals in the pattern of 0 and 1 elements in the Hadamard binary transform matrix. Spatial modulation or coding of waveforms of the x ray beam radiation generated by x ray source can be readily achieved through binary transform function BTF. The generated x ray beams can be directed towards an object for irradiation with composite x ray beams including signals based on the predetermined Hadamard binary transform. Anode A can be configured in a reflection mode for redirecting x ray beams towards an object to be irradiated.

In one embodiment an x ray source including multi beam pixels can include a field emission cathode with a linear array of gated carbon nanotube emitting pixels focusing electrodes and a molybdenum target configured in a reflection mode. These components can be housed in a vacuum chamber with a 4 diameter Be x ray window at a base pressure of 10torr. Each emitting pixel can include a 1.5 mm diameter carbon nanotube film deposited on a metal surface a 150 m thick dielectric spacer and an electron extraction gate made of a tungsten grid. Further each emitting pixel is capable of emitting 1 mA current and can be evenly spaced with a center to center spacing of about 1.27 cm. The anode voltage can be set at 40 kV. Gate voltage can vary depending on the flux required. Switching the x ray beam from each pixel can be controlled by sweeping a 0 5 Volt DC pulse through a corresponding MOSFET.

The carbon nanotube film can be deposited on the metal substrate by electrophoresis. The film can have a thickness of about 1.5 mm. The film can be coated on a metal disk. All of the gate electrodes can be electrically connected. An active electrostatic focusing electrode can be placed between the gate electrode and the anode for each pixel. The electron beam can be focused into a focus area on the anode target referred to as a focal spot when an electrical potential is applied onto the focusing electrode. Each emitting pixel can be connected to the drain of an n channel MOSFET the source of which is grounded. The gate of the MOSFET can be connected to the output of a digital I O board which can provide a 5 V DC voltage signal.

To generate x ray radiation a constant DC voltage can be applied to the anode and a variable DC voltage less than about 1 kV can be applied to the gate electrodes. MOSFET circuitry can be used to turn on and off the emission current from the individual pixels. To activate a pixel a 5 V signal can be applied to open the channel of a corresponding MOSFET such that the pixel formed a complete electrical circuit with the gate electrode. Electrons can be emitted from the activated pixel when the gate voltage is larger than the critical field for emission. The electrons can be accelerated by the anode voltage and bombarded on a directly opposing area on the anode to produce x ray radiation. Other non activated pixels will not emit electrons because they form an open circuit. To generate a scanning x ray beam from different origins on the target a pulsed controlling signal with predetermined pulse width can be swept across the individuals MOSFETs. At each point the channel can be opened to generate an electron beam from the particular pixel which produced an x ray beam from the corresponding focal point on the target.

A subset of pixels can be activated such that they all emit electrons with either the same or different pulsing frequencies which generate x ray beams from different focal points with either the same or different frequencies. In one example this can be accomplished by using separate gate electrodes for the field emission pixels. Extraction voltages can be applied to the corresponding pixels with the desired pulsing frequencies to generate field emitted electrons with the desired pulsing frequencies and amplitudes. In another example a common gate can be used for all of the electron emitting pixels. Pulsing of the electron beam can be accomplished by pulsing the activation voltage applied to the MOSFET circuit. For example to generate a pulsed x ray with a desired frequency f a pulsed voltage with the same frequency f can be applied to open the corresponding MOSFET.

Object O can be placed on a sample stage in position for intercepting x ray beams XB XB which can carry signals in a pattern of 0 and 1 elements in a predetermined Hadamard binary transform matrix. The sample stage can be rotated for rotating of object O. The signal pattern of x ray beams XB XB can correspond to the signal pattern contained in electron beams EB and EB which is based on the predetermined Hadamard binary transform matrix. All or a portion of x ray beams XB XB can pass through object O.

After passing through object O x ray beams XB XB can be detected by x ray detector XD. X ray detector XD can continuously capture the composite x ray beams XB XB. After all or at least a portion of x ray beams XB XB are collected and stored as x ray signal data in a memory inverse binary transform function IBTF can apply an inverse binary transform to the stored x ray signal data to recover the signals of the composite x ray beams. In one example x ray detector XD can deliver a 264 264 full frame with 200 micron pixels and 16 frames per second which is suitable for may high speed x ray imaging applications. A display unit D can organize the recovered signals for displaying images of object O based on the recovered signals.

The 0 and 1 x ray beam signals can be generated by pulsing x ray beams XB XB. The pulsed x ray radiation can include a programmable pulse width and repetition rate. are graphs illustrating an example of pulsed current applied to the x ray pixels and the generated x ray intensities over a period of time for generating pulsed x ray radiation. Referring to the x ray tube current is shown with a variable pulse width down to 0.5 s at a constant repetition rate of 20 kHz. Referring to x ray pulses of variable repetition rate are shown at a constant width 150 s acquired from a Si PIN photodiode detector.

In Hadamard multiplexing the multiplexed signals are generated from original signals weighted by 0 and 1. Assuming the original signals have the form X xx. . . xx the multiplexed signals Y yy. . . yy are in general related to the original signals by the linear transform Y SX. For a Hadamard transform the S matrices consist of only 1s and 0s which correspond to the on off state of the signal source. The inverse of such a matrix is obtained by replacing the elements in the matrix by 1s and scaling by 2 n 1 .

As an example for the S matrix of order N 3 the convolution process can be expressed succinctly in the matrix notation by the following equation 

For Hadamard multiplexing radiography of order N 3 an exemplary comparison of conventional imaging and data processing procedures with procedures Hadamard techniques according to the subject matter described herein are described with respect to and A C. illustrate conventional scanning sequential imaging of object O by a x ray detector XD and x ray source XS at times t t respectively. Referring to projection images of object O are collected sequentially at times t t in the time domain by irradiating object O with x ray beam XB. Object O is irradiated by x ray beam XB from different projection angles by x ray source XS. X ray detector XD detects a portion of x ray beam XB passing through object O. The total imaging time is 3 t assuming exposure time t for each projection image.

For the Hadamard multiplexing imaging example shown in the total number of exposures is 3 the same as in the example. However in the example of only two of x ray sources XS XS and XS are turned on simultaneously for each exposure of object to x ray beams XB XB and XB according to the 1 0 on off pattern of the Hadamard matrix shown in equation 2 above. Since each individual x ray source XS XS is turned on twice during the three exposures to keep the dose constant the exposure time for each frame can be reduced to t 2. The overall exposure time for the example is 1.5 t compared to 3 t for sequential imaging as in the example. In general for Hadamard multiplexing radiography of order N the data acquisition rate can be improved by a factor of N 1 2. Considering the fact that the order of 1000 images N 1000 are required for each gantry rotation in CT scanning a large gain is provided in imaging speed in techniques according to the subject matter described herein. On the other hand since each x ray source is turned on N 1 2 times during the entire data collection process thus keeping the total exposure time fixed the maximum workload of the x ray tube needed to achieve the same x ray dose for each image can be reduced by a factor of N 1 2.

In block a binary transform function can generate multiplexed composite x ray beams including signals based on the predetermined Hadamard binary transform and irradiate an object with the composite x ray beams. For example is a schematic diagram illustrating an exemplary BMXR system generally designated operable to generate multiplexed composite x ray beams including signals based on the predetermined Hadamard binary transform and irradiate an object with the composite x ray beams according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. Referring to system includes a plurality of x ray sources or pixels XS XS configured to produce x ray beams including signals based on a predetermined binary transform such as a Hadamard transform.

X ray sources XS XS are individually addressable x ray pixels. Each field emission pixel can be comprised of a gated carbon nanotube field emission cathode a tungsten mesh extraction gate and an electrostatic focusing lens. The cathode can be a random carbon nanotube composite film deposited on a metal substrate by electrophoresis. A MOSFET based electronic circuit can control the on off pattern of the x ray sources.

The x ray beams generated by x ray sources XS XS can be controlled by a binary transform function to include signals based on the Hadamard binary transform matrix S. X ray beams of x ray sources XS XS can be applied to object O in sequence until the composite x ray beams have been applied. Object O can be positioned on a sample stage. The first application of x ray beam signals shown in include turning on x ray sources XS XS XS and XS in accordance with the Hadamard binary transform matrix S.

As shown in the Hadamard binary transform matrix Sof the 1s and 0s in each row of the Hadamard matrix are used to control the on 1 and off 0 state of a corresponding x ray source XS XS. To generate a multiplexing x ray beam from multiple origins on object O a controlling signal with a predetermined signal pattern and pulse width was swept across a control circuit such as a MOSFET control circuit . A total number of N 7 multiplexed images can be acquired based on the following signal sequences 1110100 1101001 1010011 0100111 1001110 0011101 and 0111010 . The seven multiplexed images can be collected and stored in a memory.

In the first application x ray sources XS XS and XS are turned off. The sequence of x ray beams includes six more applications x ray beam signals. The control of x ray beam sources XS XS to apply the applications is shown in the Hadamard binary transform matrix S. The generation of each multiplexed image is based on the corresponding row of the Hadamard matrix. The on off state of each x ray source is determined by the 1 0 matrix element in that row.

Referring again to x ray intensities associated with the signals of the composite x ray beams can be detected block . For example x ray detector XD shown in can detect the x ray intensities associated with the signals of the composite x ray beams generated by x ray sources XS XS. X ray detector XD can be a single flat panel x ray detector. The x ray intensities comprise multiplexed x ray images.

In block an inverse binary transform can be applied to the detected x ray intensities associated with the signals of the composite x ray beams to recover the signals of the composite x ray beams. For example an inverse binary transform function can apply an inverse binary transform to the detected x ray intensities associated with the signals of the composite x ray beams to recover the signals of the composite x ray beams. In one example after a complete set of multiplexed images are collected a demultiplexing algorithm based on a corresponding inversed Hadamard transform matrix can be applied to the complete set of multiplex images to recover the original projection images.

In one experiment images of a computer circuit were acquired using conventional techniques and techniques in accordance with the subject matter described herein. is a reference image of the computer circuit acquired under the same imaging conditions kV mAs and imaging configuration using a conventional sequential imaging technique. For comparison is a multiplexing image of the circuit board acquired in accordance with the subject matter described herein. The quality of the images shown in is visually negligible 3 based on the quantitative contrast calculation . In terms of imaging speed a factor of 4 increase in the speed has been achieved using Hadamard imaging techniques in accordance with the subject matter described herein.

Systems and methods in accordance with the subject matter described herein may also be included in a CT imaging system having multi beam field emission pixels. is a schematic diagram of an exemplary CT imaging system generally designated having multi beam field emission pixels according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. Referring to system can include multi beam x ray sources MBXS and MBXS that each include multiple pixels configured for directing x ray beams at object O. The pixels of x ray sources MBXS and MBXS can be controlled to turn on and turn off in a signaling pattern based on a predetermined binary transform. Object O can be positioned for irradiation by the x ray beams. X ray detectors XD and XD can be area x ray detectors configured to detect x ray beams from x ray sources MBXS and MBXS respectively. An inverse binary transform function can receive detected x ray intensity data associated with the signals and apply an inverse binary transform to the detected x ray intensities associated with the signals of the composite x ray beams to recover the signals of the composite x ray beams. Images can be generated based on the recovered signals.

Several different factors can contribute to multiplexing imaging artifacts. Some artifacts such the artifact introduced by insufficient data sampling can be difficult to resolve due to the limitation of current x ray detector technology. In the case of imaging in accordance with the subject matter described herein the imaging artifact is simply from the intensity fluctuation of the x ray signals field emission current. In order to minimize the x ray intensity fluctuation either hardware based or software based feedback circuitry can be applied to stabilize the field emission current from a carbon nanotube pixel.

For scattered x ray radiation the deleterious effects of scattering on imaging quality in x ray imaging have been well documented. Compared with sequential imaging the multiplexing imaging generally introduced more scattering components due to the fact that multiple x ray signals were turned on simultaneously during the imaging process. It can also be shown that the scattered radiations in Hadamard imaging are also multiplexed in the same fashion as their primary counterparts. The demultiplexing process will also demultiplex the scattered radiation from each x ray pixel to prevent the severe degradation of imaging contrast and accumulation of background noise. An anti scattering device can be configured to minimize scattered x ray signals collected by an x ray detector.

If the x ray exposure dose for each individual x ray beam signal is fixed the BMXR methods and systems in accordance with the subject matter described herein can be utilized such that the overall data collection time can be dramatically reduced in comparison to conventional techniques. In conventional x ray radiography there is only one signal source turned on at a given time. Multiple x ray signals have to be collected on after the other which is referred to as a sequential data collection method. This method can greatly limit the overall imaging speed. In BMXR in accordance with the subject matter described herein multiple x ray signals can be collected simultaneously. This parallel data collection mechanism can significantly reduce the overall data collection time in comparison to conventional techniques.

If the total exposure time is fixed the BMXR methods and systems in accordance with the subject matter described herein can be utilized to improve the signal to noise ratio of the signal in comparison to conventional techniques. The increase of signal to noise ratio in x ray imaging or analysis is often limited by the maximum x ray flux or equivalently the maximum output power of the x ray source due to the finite exposure time. The maximum output power is generally limited by the finite heat dissipation rate of the target and small focal spot size. The binary multiplexing techniques as described herein can increase the signal to noise ratio by simultaneously turning on multiple x ray signal channels during the imaging process. This technique can enhance the signal to noise ratio due to the fact that the actual exposure time used for taking each signal is greatly extended without increasing the overall exposure time.

If the exposure does for each individual signal and total exposure time are fixed the BMXR methods and systems in accordance with the subject matter described herein can provide better power distribution of the x ray source in comparison to conventional techniques. In this case compared with the conventional serial data collection method the available exposure time for each individual source is much longer since each of them will be turned on multiple times. The demanded tube current for each x ray source can be greatly reduced based on the number of times it can be turned on during the data collection process. Since less tube current is required both cathode and anode life times and overall x ray tube life time can be improved using the BMXR methods and systems described herein.

It will be understood that various details of the presently disclosed subject matter may be changed without departing from the scope of the presently disclosed subject matter. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

