---

title: Mobile all hazards receipt facility/analytical laboratory
abstract: A mobile All Hazards Receipt Facility (AHRF) is provided in an enclosure suitable for mounting on a base vehicle such as a semi-trailer. The AHRF includes a containment area compliant with BSL-3 standards, a containment area compliant with BSL-2 standards, a unique bleaching/decontamination station having an airlock to the outside for receiving incoming sample containers, a class III Biosafety Cabinet (Glovebox) connected to the bleaching station via an airlock through which samples are passed for processing, a biosafety cabinet as well as an onboard air handling system that provides air conditioning, filtration and exhaust and maintains appropriate BSL-2 and BSL-3 air pressure differentials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07985382&OS=07985382&RS=07985382
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07985382
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070522
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 809 494 filed on May 31 2006.

The present invention relates in general to screening and assessment of samples that may contain chemical biological radiological highly explosive residue or toxic industrial materials and more particularly to a self contained mobile all hazards receipt and containment facility to perform rapid and safe screening and assessment of a wide variety of samples to determine whether they may contain chemical biological radiological highly explosive residue or toxic industrial materials.

During the period following Sep. 11 2001 and the anthrax releases that occurred shortly thereafter public health laboratories in the U.S. became severely overloaded with potentially harmful specimens of many descriptions that needed to be assessed and identified rapidly. While HAZMAT teams and other resources were helpful in many cases in assessing radiological and explosive hazards most public health laboratories lacked the training and equipment to cover and contain a broad range of chemical and biological hazards. This lack of expertise and equipment presented a high level of uncertainty and anxiety for laboratory personnel who received samples and had no way of knowing how hazardous they were. Such uncertainty and the very real potential for harm to personnel and consequent massive loss of laboratory capacity has strengthened the demand for a standardized approach to specimen receiving triage and assessment under conditions that will protect each laboratory facility and its staff while also ensuring the integrity of forensic evidence and preserving a legally defensible chain of custody. Embodiments according to the present invention are designed to address at least the foregoing needs.

In general in one aspect an embodiment of a mobile hazards receipt analytical laboratory includes a platform suitable for mounting on a base vehicle a substantially sealed enclosure mounted on or integrated with the platform for containing laboratory equipment and personnel the enclosure comprising a plurality of sealed outside entries that can be locked to prevent unauthorizd access. The enclosure further includes an anteroom maintained at a positive pressure of about 0.10 in wg with respect to the outside air that leads to at least one other room in the laboratory and comprises a main outside entry a containment area compliant with BSL Biosafety Level 2 standards maintained at a negative pressure of about 0.10 in wg with respect to the outside air which is directly accessible from the anteroom a containment area compliant with BSL 3 standards maintained at a negative pressure of greater than about 0.25 in wg with respect to the outside air which is directly accessible from the change room a bleaching station located in the BSL 2 area the bleaching station comprising a partially enclosed work area for application of a decontamination solution to sample containers wherein said bleaching station further comprises a HEPA and carbon filtered exhaust system and a double sided class III glovebox located in the BSL 3 area the glovebox comprising a CBR exhaust air filtration system an airlock through which samples may be passed directly from the bleaching station and a second airlock through which samples can be passed into a biosafety cabinet.

In general in another aspect an embodiment of an air handling system for a mobile laboratory which includes a BSL 2 compliant area and a BSL 3 compliant area includes a first air supply and exhaust system that provides HEPA air supply and HEPA carbon filtered single pass air exhaust and at least 30 outside air exchanges per hour to the BSL 3 level containment area of the mobile laboratory and a second air supply and exhaust system that provides HEPA and carbon filtered air that may be recirculated at least in part and that provides at least 10 outside air changes per hour to a BSL 2 level containment area of the mobile laboratory.

In yet another aspect a method of receiving and processing samples through a mobile hazards receipt facility includes receiving a sample into the mobile hazards receipt facility at a double door airlock accepting the sample according to a two man entry rule and passing the sample directly from the double door airlock into a bleaching station located in a BSL Biosafety Level 2 confinement area decontaminating any secondary overpacking of the sample in the bleaching station removing any secondary overpacking of the sample to reveal a primary sample container and decontaminating a second time passing the sample from the bleaching station through a double door airlock into a glovebox that meets or exceeds standards for a Class III Biological Safety Cabinet opening the sample container in a glovebox performing triage on the sample in the glovebox passing the sample from the glovebox into a quad door airlock leading from the glovebox to a Class II A2 biosafety cabinet according to Standard NSF 49 performing additional analysis of the sample in the biosafety cabinet if needed re packing the sample for transport to another facility and passing the re packed sample out of the mobile hazards receipt facility through a double door airlock.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings. The drawings are a part of this disclosure and illustrate specific embodiments in which the invention as claimed may be practiced. The invention however may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied in methods systems and devices. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

In general a mobile hazards receipt analytical laboratory variously referred to as an All Hazards Receipt Facility AHRF or Hazards Receipt Facility in this document should be built on a base vehicle that is small enough to be readily transportable but still be large enough to accommodate a working laboratory environment that provides all necessary analytical and containment equipment. The base vehicle selected in the preferred embodiment is a wheeled semi trailer transportable over most major roads and which may be hauled and positioned next to a fixed site facility such as a public health laboratory. The AHRF thus may be operated as a semi permanent structure in communication with a fixed site laboratory facility. It should also be noted the term AHRF as used herein is not intended to mean literally that all hazards can be received by such a laboratory.

Embodiments of AHRF according to the present invention are designed to incorporate true Biosafety Level 3 BSL 3 facilities in accordance with guidelines established by Biosafety in Biomedical and Microbiological Laboratories BMBL 4th Edition May 1999 incorporated by reference herein as if fully set forth. BSL 3 is one of four classifications for biologic research designated by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The levels 1 through 4 signify the increasing level of risk to humans from pathogens and call for increasingly stringent precautions and safeguards to protect both people working inside a containment facility and members of the public on the outside.

As would be familiar to those of skill in the art a number of design considerations apply to any BSL 3 facility and are incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in embodiments of AHRFs according to the present invention. These include but are not limited to surrounding the facility with a perimeter wall and isolating the building from random adjacent traffic providing video cameras and other surveillance equipment controlling ingress and egress and providing biologically sealed doors. The facility should be designed to minimize the risk that air and airborne contaminants inside the containment areas may escape to the outside and be equipped with redundant state of the art monitoring systems. Additionally containment areas of the facility should be configured to provide a negative air pressure barrier i.e. inside air pressure is less than ambient air pressure so that any air leaks will result in an airflow into the facility from the outside. Engineering of the airflow containment and sample movement are at the heart of embodiments of AHRFs according to the present invention.

AHRF includes an exterior surface not specifically illustrated made of a lightweight weather resistant material such as aluminum sheet and which has as few seams as possible. Aluminum is preferred as an exterior material since it lightweight cost effective weather resistant and available in a variety of colors. Other similar materials such as a composite plastic galvanized sheet metal or stainless steel may likewise be used.

AHRF has an interior floor that provides a monolithic anti slip surface and is chemically resistant throughout. To provide such a surface floor is preferably made from several layers. Floor includes a layer of plywood and or aluminum sheet covered with a monolithic troweled epoxy coating floor finish. Floor also includes an integrated coved edge with a 4 in baseboard. The coved edge with minimum 4 in baseboard provides a seamless surface to help capture and contain any liquid spills and facilitate decontamination and complies with criteria stated for a BSL 3 laboratory. Alternatively a spray on coating that is applied to plywood and or aluminum sheets and has a coved edge with a 4 in baseboard may be used for a floor surface. Although this option provides monolithic and slip resistant flooring as well as more flexibility than the troweled epoxy which is ideal for a mobile platform the spray on coating may have inconsistencies in the thickness of the material. A bubbling effect may also appear where the coating does not adhere well to the surface it was sprayed onto.

Interior walls for AHRF not specifically illustrated are preferably made from an Oriented Strand Board OSB sheathing over standard 16 inch on center studs. Although if fire retardant materials are required walls could be constructed of metal studs and gypsum. The Interior walls are covered on the inside by solid and smooth Fiber Reinforced Panels FRP . FRP is available in large continuous rolls that are 8 ft wide and is easily installed by laying a continuous piece above a 7 16 in OSB sheathing. This process significantly reduces the number of seams and is an ideal material to construct a smooth and impervious wall for a laboratory area that requires easy to clean surfaces.

The interior ceiling not specifically illustrated of AHRF is also covered with FRP to maintain continuity with the interior walls. Aluminum angle may be used to join sections of FRP together to create a seamless ceiling for easy cleaning and decontamination. Using materials for the walls and ceiling that are easy to clean and easy to chemically disinfect is recommended in the BMBL for a BSL 3 Laboratory.

Power requirements for the preferred embodiment of AHRF are 300 Amps 208 Volts 3 Phase. A main electrical panel is located in a HVAC Filtration room located in the rear of AHRF . An automatic power transfer switch box is located on the exterior rear of the trailer and provides an external point of connection for standard 208 volt 3 phase shore power and generator power. A relatively large electrical system is called for to supply two separate heating ventilating and air conditioning systems an AAON 5 ton HVAC single pass unit using 3 Phase power 100 Amps and a BARD 2.5 ton recirculating HVAC unit using single phase power 60 Amps. A 200 Amp single phase subpanel is located in a BSL 2 Area of the facility to provide easy access to circuit breakers.

As a safety feature critical systems for which an unexpected power loss could result in an immediate safety hazard are connected to one or more Uninterruptible Power Supply UPS systems typical locations shown in . For example containment systems such as gloveboxes and biosafety cabinets should be connected to a UPS. While separate UPS systems for each unit needing backup power are preferred for robustness and redundancy a shared UPS power supply system may be employed in alternative embodiments. Each UPS system preferably provides at least 20 30 minutes of back up power depending on load consumption which should allow laboratory personnel enough time to decontaminate and cease operations in ease of a power failure until generator power is activated.

An outboard generator for extended power backup not illustrated such as a trailer mounted 110 kW diesel generator with a 300 gallon fuel tank may also be provided in some alternative embodiments. Power transfer switch should be configured to match the output of any outboard generator. Power transfer switch should also allow for remote operations and monitoring options and be able to automatically start the generator in the event external power is lost.

In general an HVAC system for a containment area should provide thermal comfort acceptable indoor air quality ventilation air filtration and maintain air pressure relationships between spaces. There are two separate Heating Ventilating and Air Conditioning HVAC units for AHRF . The larger HVAC is a 5 ton split single pass unit AAON located in a HVAC Filtration Room that is sealed off from the laboratory areas of AHRF . The other HVAC unit is a 2.5 ton recirculating unit Bard located outside of utility room on the opposite end of AHRF which is also sealed off from the AHRF laboratory areas. The single pass unit provides the BSL 3 Area and changeroorn with single pass air to fulfill the safety requirements for dealing with unknowns. Single pass unit is manufactured by AAON Inc. and was selected due to its physical size air handling capacity electrical requirements and cost. By dividing AHRF into BSL 2 and BSL 3 areas the electrical requirements physical size and overall cost of the single pass HVAC needed for a BSL 3 laboratory may be significantly reduced.

In general the water supply for an embodiment of an AHRF according to the present invention must be adequate to meet the needs of all routine laboratory operations and also be able to rapidly deliver a large volume of water to safety showers and eyewash stations in emergencies. Wastewater from the safety showers is stored in sealed holding tanks under floor and separate from sink holding tanks .

The water supply connection for AHRF is a standard external hose connection not shown that directly fills a large onboard potable water tank in utility room preferably having a capacity of at least 100 gals. The option to have a tank bypass thereby a demand pump bypass for a direct city connection is not a good choice since city water pressure typically would not be adequate to force the emergency safety shower at a satisfactory flow. A demand pump in utility room supplies water to AHRF from water tank . Demand pump should be able to deliver sufficient pressure and volume as required for safety showers which are located beside each emergency exit . Back up power should be provided to demand pump to ensure that the water supply is not interrupted in the event of a power failure.

Three sinks are preferably provided in AHRF . Sinks include foot pedals to enable hands free operation as recommended by the BMBL. While automatic sinks may also be used foot pedal operation sinks are generally more reliable and easier to repair in the field than automatically operated sinks. Each sink location also includes an instant hot water heater not illustrated which eliminates the need for a hot water tank. Emergency eye wash stations are located at each sink in the BSL 2 and BSL 3 Areas area.

Tank heaters not illustrated are another feature incorporated into AFIRE so that during freezing temperatures they may be turned on to automatically keep all holding tanks from freezing. A level indicator and alarm is also present for all holding tanks potable and waste to notify laboratory personnel if potable water is running low or any waste tanks need to be emptied by a septic or waste pump out service.

Onboard waste holding tanks are included onboard AHRF and are positioned beneath the floor directly under the emergency showers. In some instances the waste tanks may be directly connected to a sewer line. If there is a chance that any hazardous substances could be present in the waste tanks precautions must be taken to ensure that the waste is properly disposed During field deployments where a constant source of fresh water may not be available the level of the water in potable water tank must be checked daily before laboratory operations begin. The water supply for the eyewash stations the safety showers and any other use comes from the same source. If the water level in the potable holding tanks is too low there may not be enough supply to effectively operate the eye washes and safety showers. Preferably potable water tank is equipped with a water level indicator and or a low level alarm such as an indicator light to ensure that the potable tank is filled to the proper level before operations begin and is refilled as necessary.

AHRF includes a main entrance a utility room entrance a double door entrance to an HVAC filtration room and two emergency exit doors . In general each entry door is double O ring sealed and each is equipped with a cipher lock or similar to prevent unauthorized entry. A first entry door is located in anteroom and is used as the primary point of ingress and egress for AHRF personnel. A second entry door is provided for direct access from the outside into utility room which is isolated from the rest of AHRF . A third double door entry is provided into HVAC Filtration Room which is also isolated from the rest of AHRF Laboratory area.

As shown in sample exit pass through double airlock doors are also included in AHRF . A Double Door Airlock is provided into High Containment BSL 3 Area . Exterior Intercom Stations are positioned beside both the entrance door and the sample exit pass thru to allow laboratory personnel to communicate from within the trailer to outside. Security Cameras are in place beside Sample exit Pass thru Door and entrance door to monitor and record all activity. Exterior Lights are also mounted near each exit to provide illumination.

In general all doors in the interior of AHRF are double O ring sealed in order to provide an air tight seal when the doors are closed. This feature facilitates control of the airflow and pressure differentials within the AHRF and maintains a functioning laboratory in the field.

The main entrance door is electrically magnetically interlocked. The sample entry pass through and the exit passthrough also use electrically magnetically interlocking doors.

The interior layout of the AHRF is designed to facilitate sample flow primary containment and secondary containment so that an unknown sample need never leave a primary containment unit and the interior of the entire AHRF platform until triage has been performed to determine the hazard associated with the sample. The sample flow within the AHRF is discussed in detail below. The interior layout is also designed to allow three to five laboratory personnel to work comfortably inside the facility and to still have all the necessary utility equipment housed within the platform. The interior design concept of the AHRF is shown in .

Anteroom provides the main entrance into the AHRF and is located on the curb side of the trailer. Anteroom is separated from other laboratory areas by self closing doors as recommended in the BMBL and provides a first self closing door on the right that leads to an adjacent Receiving Log in BSL 2 Area and a second self closing door on the left that leads to an adjacent change room . Across from main entrance of anteroom is a viewing window into Receiving Log in BSL 2 Area . Anteroom Main Entrance is maintained at a positive pressure of 0.10 in. water gauge wg with respect to the air outside the AHRF.

Change room provides benches and lockers so that laboratory personnel are able to change into the appropriate laboratory attire before entering into the BSL 3 Area of AHRF . Change room is also at a pressure of 0.10 in. wg with respect to the outside. A cabinet in change room houses a recording apparatus the server for a camera system . At the far end of change room opposite self closing door is another self closing door leading to a High Containment or BSL 3 Area . The self closing doors on either end of change room are electrically magnetically interlocked.

As noted Receiving Log in BSL 2 Area is on the right upon entering anteroom Self closing door from anteroom into receiving log in BSL 2 is also electrically magnetically interlocked with main entrance door . The interlocked doors are used to help maintain the air pressure in each section. All interior doors have wire reinforced half glass windows for viewing as recommended by the Anthology of BioSafety VII BSL 3 see page 22 .

Primary containment for samples in Receiving Log in BSL 2 Area is provided by a Bleaching Station . Sample entry is permitted on the street side of the trailer through an interlocking double door airlock that leads directly into Bleaching Station . Bleaching station is an elongate rectangular cabinet providing an interior work space approximately 77 in wide and 28 in deep. An angled transparent glass or polycarbonate front panel that is detent or friction hinged at the top enables adjustable operating clearance and proper containment. The open faced design of bleaching station is preferable to the confines of a more restrictive enclosure such as a glovebox because the operator s ability to handle incoming sample containers is significantly improved and the level of containment is more appropriate to the work being performed. Bleaching Station is preferably constructed of welded 316 stainless steel. The interior surfaces are coated with a Halar finish or similar material to provide protection from highly corrosive decontamination solutions. An interior light is provided for the work area.

Bleaching Station is designed to extract any vapors that may emanate from incoming sample packages and draw particulates away from the operator and laboratory and towards the back wall of the work space within. A drain is located on one end of bleaching station and sinks are connected to onboard waste holding tanks . The interior work area of bleaching station is sloped towards the drain to dispose of any liquids. Bleaching station also provides an enclosed hood with adjustable airflow baffles on the back wall so that the airflow may be adjusted by laboratory personnel.

BSL 2 Area also includes a Computer Workstation to log in samples and perform any chain of custody documentation when samples enter this laboratory area via Bleaching Station BSL 2 Area also includes a workbench preferably located adjacent to Bleaching Station . While other cabinets and countertops within AHRF are generally made of stainless steel workbench is provided with a very durable heat and chemical resistant countertop of a stone like material such as Corian or similar and is equipped with a hands free sink and an eye wash station. Receiving Log in BSL 2 Area is maintained at a negative pressure of 0.10 in wg with respect to the outside.

High Containment BSL 3 Area includes an emergency eye wash and safety shower station beside an emergency exit door on the street side of the trailer. A second emergency eye wash and shower station is located next to emergency exit door from the Receiving Log in BSL 2 Area .

An autoclave is also available in High Containment BSL 3 Area to sterilize any necessary items. Having autoclave in the BSL 3 Area also provides a means of decontaminating laboratory waste in AHRF . This is recommended in the BMBL p34 as part of the facilities for a BSL 3 laboratory.

The primary containment for samples in BSL 3 Area is a Double Sided Class III Glovebox for performing triage i.e. for determining how a sample will be further handled and Biosafety Cabinet . Glovebox provides a secure environment to open the sample containment and perform preliminary testing. A Chemical Biological Radioactive CBR Exhaust Air Filtration system is also provided for Glovebox to ensure proper containment of chemical biological and radioactive warfare agents. A Double Sided Class III Biosafety Cabinet Glovebox with CBR Exhaust Air Filtration System is defined in the BMBL see p as a totally enclosed ventilated cabinet . . . and offers the highest degree of personnel and environmental protection from biological and chemical hazards. The filtration system consists of both ASZM TEDA carbon filters and NEPA filters to capture any possible chemical and or any possible biological hazards. In general a glovebox with CBR filtration is provided at this stage as the primary containment unit due to the high level of protection needed for opening a primary sample container that encloses an unknown sample. Glovebox is preferably double sided with three glove ports on each side to allow the laboratory operators to work simultaneously from both sides in situations where difficult procedures are required for handling samples.

Glovebox is preferably constructed of all welded 12 and 16 gauge 316 Stainless Steel which is polished to a 180 grit pharmaceutical grade 4 finish to allow for easy cleaning and decontamination. Glovebox also includes viewing panels constructed of 318 in thick polycarbonate and provides three oval Stainless Steel double grooved gloveports which allow for changing the butyl gloves without breaking containment. Butyl gloves are preferably 32 in. long with a 15 mil thickness and are held in place with two rubber O rings. Glovebox also includes a control panel that displays the pressure inside in digital and analog formats as well providing audible and visual low pressure alarms to alert personnel when containment pressure is inadequate. Glovebox is connected to a 15 amp dedicated circuit for its primary power supply and has two sealed electrical receptacles located inside the glovebox.

Glovebox is connected via a quad door airlock to Class II A2 Biosafety Cabinet to allow laboratory personnel to conduct further biological testing of a sample that may contain biohazardous materials as may be required. Biosafety Cabinet is essentially a standard 4 ft Biosafety Cabinet and provides an area for further biological laboratory work if needed as well as an area for over packing the sample for transport to the main laboratory or another facility. A biosafety cabinet has been chosen since chemical or radiological samples will be processed in glovebox and only samples appropriate for further biological work will be moved on to biosafety cabinet .

Biosafety Cabinet is made from welded 304 Stainless Steel with a 4 pharmaceutical grade finish. The front panel is ergonomically designed with a concave face to permit the operator to lean into the work area thereby reducing strain. A removable Stainless Steel work tray which is 47 in. wide by 16 in deep allows easier cleaning. Fluorescent lights are mounted on the exterior of Biosafety Cabinet to illuminate the work area within and minimize heat build up. Changing of HEPA filters for Biosafety Cabinet may be changed or otherwise accessed from the rear of Biosafety Cabinet .

High Containment BSL 3 Area also has a refrigerator freezer and a flammable cabinet under the counter. A double door airlock is provided in High Containment BSL 3 Area on the curbside of the trailer for removing samples from AHRF .

HVAC Filtration room houses the Aaon 5 ton HVAC Single Pass unit which is equipped with a HEPA booster as well as the filtration components for all the primary containment units Bleaching Station Class III BSC Glovebox and Biosafety Cabinet . Keeping this filtration and ventilation equipment separate from the main laboratory areas allows for maintenance to be performed in a centralized area and reduces the noise level in the laboratories. HVAC Filtration room is accessible from the rear of AHRF via a set of double doors .

A rollup door on the street side of the trailer provides access to the bag in bag out BIBO HEPA carbon filtered hood exhaust unit and facilitates changing of filters using the Bag in Bag out procedure A double door is provided on the curbside of the trailer for the same purpose for the room breathing air filtration and exhaust system .

A Utility Room is located on the curbside of AHRF towards the front of the trailer. Utility Room houses a HEPA carbon filter and booster blower for the 2.5 Ton recirculating HVAC unit a variable frequency drive for the 2.5 Ton recirculating HVAC unit demand water pump and the 100 gallon potable water holding tank . The utility room is sealed off from the BSL 2 Area so it is not accessible from inside AHRF . An exterior door provides entry into Utility Room .

A second air supply is provided by recirculating HVAC unit . Recirculating HVAC unit is located outside utility room but is substantially sealed off from utility room . Recirculating HVAC unit recirculates air from inside AHRF and mixes it with fresh air from the outside. Outside air is drawn from an air intake port located in the HVAC unit and from air supply vent . Inside air is drawn through a grating through an adjacent inside wall which opens into BSL 2 Area and from a return duct which runs from change room directly into Recirculating HVAC unit . Airflow from Recirculating HVAC unit is HEPA and carbon filtered in a recirculating filtration unit which is equipped with a booster fan before it is conveyed through an overhead duct to recirculated air supply outlet vents and . Recirculated air supply outlet vents and are located in BSL 2 Area and Recirculated air supply outlet vent is located in anteroom . An air return is not generally needed in anteroom because it is maintained at a positive pressure.

The HVAC system for AHRF is equipped with bioseal dampers and which are positioned in single pass HVAC system supply duct and function as automatic check valves to ensure that contaminated air cannot be backdrafted through the ducts in the event of a system failure. TSI dampers and are located in single pass HVAC supply return ducts and enable automatic pressure adjustment and airflow control in BSL 2 BSL 3 and change room areas. Additional dampers and flow modulators may be provided in other branches of the HVAC system as needed to further control airflow and to maintain appropriate pressure differentials.

Several dedicated exhaust and HEPA carbon filtration systems are also provided in HVAC filtration room . A glovebox filtration system provides exhaust and HEPA carbon filtration for Glovebox via a glovebox duct . BI BO HEPA carbon filtered hood exhaust systems and provide exhaust and HEPA carbon filtration for Biosafety Cabinet and Bleaching Station respectively via a biosafety cabinet duct and bleaching station duct . Return air from High Containment BSL 3 Area passes through HEPA carbon room filtration and exhaust unit before being exhausted at HEPA carbon room filtration exhaust outlet port .

An additional feature of AHRF is a color coding scheme to insure that samples supplies and equipment are located in the areas where they should be. In the BSL 2 Area for example the labels are yellow with black text. In Change room the labels are green with white text. In BSL 3 Area the labels are red with white text. Other colors and labeling schemes may likewise be employed. Additionally in some environments it may be desirable to include magnetic or electronic transponders to trigger an alarm when objects are moved from area to area without authorization.

Samples typically will arrive at the AHRF in some form of protective packaging. Standard protocol calls for arriving samples to be contained in an airtight primary sample container that is covered by a secondary protective overpack. Although the risk of contamination is low all incoming sample containers will be decontaminated.

Samples are initially received on the street side of AHRF through an interlocking double door airlock . Double door airlock preferably provides a 16 in. wide by 16 in. high opening and is secured with a cipher lock or similar for keyless entry. An intercom is also preferably provided near double door airlock to facilitate communication with personnel inside the AHRF when samples are delivered. A two man entry rule should be followed when accepting unknown samples to ensure that samples are only processed into the AHRF when another person is inside the facility and knowingly accepts the sample. Double door airlock is positioned so that samples entering AHRF are passed directly into the specially designed Bleaching Station in BSL 2 Area .

In operation a sample container is received through double door airlock and is moved directly into bleaching station through a common sidewall. A prescribed quantity of liquid decontamination solution such as household bleach is applied to the secondary over pack of a sample after it is moved inside bleaching station . The sample overpack may be wiped down with bleach rinsed and then removed to expose the primary sample container. The bleaching and rinsing process is then repeated on the primary sample container to ensure that there are no hazards on the exterior.

The back wall of Bleaching Station is integrated with an interlocking double door air lock that leads to the Class UI Glovebox located in BSL 3 Area . The double door air lock between bleaching station and glovebox is provided to prevent the sample from leaving any environmental enclosure and possibly contaminating the laboratory.

Once triage has been performed within glovebox the sample may be moved through an interlocking quadruple door airlock leading from glovebox to Biosafety Cabinet . Biosafety Cabinet provides a work area for further biological laboratory work if needed as well as an area for over packing the sample for transport to another facility.

After the sample has been prescreened triaged and packaged or repackaged in BSL 3 Area the sample may be placed into a sample exit pass through Double Door Interlocking Airlock located on the curb side in BSL 3 Area . The contained sample can then be removed from the facility for transport to a fixed site laboratory for further testing or other appropriate processing.

In order to provide communications to AHRF external phone and data ports are provided so that the phone lines and data ports located throughout the inside of the facility can be easily connected and activated. For data lines inside AHRF a network router is provided so that the interior of the facility may be networked and connected to the internet. Another feature included for security purposes is a camera system that has a server that may be connected to the internet if it is available. This features allows remote users to view the security cameras to the facility over the internet. The security camera system is discussed in the next section.

There are preferably eight security cameras connected to a server that stores video recorded from the cameras. Four cameras are installed on the exterior of the AHRF to monitor the entrance door sample entrance sample exit and the emergency exit doors. There are also two cameras in BSL 3 Area one in BSL 2 Area and an additional bullet camera with a focal length suited to view the operations within glovebox . At least three flat screen monitors allow laboratory personnel to view all the cameras throughout the AHRF. The server may be programmed to automatically record each camera s view for approximately 15 30 days depending on the video quality. Using a router the server may be networked for remote access via a local or wide area network such as the internet and also to enable voice over internet protocol and data communications. A variety of access permissions may be set for users and administrators thereby safeguarding access and control functions for video surveillance and communications systems.

Although a less expensive video surveillance system may be provided the safety and security of AHRF personnel are better served by a video surveillance system that provides good image quality adequate coverage inside and outside of AHRF extensive video recording capability internet access restricted access and the capability to serve multiple users remote administration and the ability to replace hardware components such as the cameras and server easily if any problems should occur.

An intercom system with four internal hands free master stations and three external door stations allows laboratory personnel to speak to persons at the main entrance sample entrance and exit as well as between rooms. Door release buttons are also located by each master station to remotely release doors to allow entrance into the AHRF and to open the sample entrance and sample exit pass through doors. An intercom system was chosen to facilitate communications between laboratory personnel both within the AHRF and with those outside the facility.

Throughout the AHRF are five smoke detectors with a 135 rate of heat rise detector three fire alarm pull stations and two horn strobes. There is also a fire panel that has two zones with controls to silence and reset the system. One zone is to handle the BSL 2 area and utility room and the other zone is to handle the BSL 3 area change room and the HVAC filtration room. The fire alarm pull stations activate a horn strobe inside the trailer and a horn strobe on the exterior. A relay contact is provided for integration to an exterior building fire alarm system. The fire alarm was specifically requested by the customer. While a sprinkler system could be installed in the AHRF it would significantly increase the cost of construction due to the installation of the necessary plumbing and fixtures as well as mounting a separate water holding source with water pump system separate from the potable holding tank and demand pump. Moreover the components necessary for a sprinkler system would also take up valuable space in an already confined area. Emergency measures are designed into the platform of the AHRF in case there is a fire emergency exits were placed in each of the laboratory rooms to allow personnel to exit quickly. In addition fire extinguishers are available throughout the facility.

After a site assessment has been performed depending on the mission and available funds the next step is site preparation. This could include clearing space possibly paving the area installation of an electrical pole and running underground cable. Depending on the need for an onsite city water connection underground plumbing may also need to be installed at the site.

As has been shown embodiments according to the present invention provide a mobile all hazards receipt facility. A number of embodiments of the invention defined by the following claims have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications to the described embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed invention. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the invention which is limited only by the following claims.

