---

title: Method and apparatus for processing on-line donations
abstract: A computer-implemented method and apparatus for processing on-line donations is disclosed. An example embodiment includes elements to generate a donation badge for display on a web page; link the donation badge with an account on a payment site; receive a donation from a donor via the donation badge; and credit the donation to the account linked to the donation badge.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768828&OS=08768828&RS=08768828
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08768828
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071221
---
This patent application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 909 925 filed Apr. 3 2007 and entitled Donation System .

This application relates to a method and system to process data. Particularly this application relates to the processing of on line donations.

A number of organizations exist for the purpose of charitable and or non profit functions including organizations which qualify as charitable organizations under U.S. Internal Revenue Service IRS Regulation 501 c 3 . Not uncommonly such organizations find that there are a number of costs associated with receiving and handling donations. One cost involves the labor or man power costs associated with soliciting and or receiving such donations. Many charitable organizations employ or hire individuals or organizations for the purpose of soliciting funds attracting potential donors and the like. Because there are often costs associated with such employees or organizations including wages salaries or commissions and or costs of advertising services or materials typically a certain portion of the funds received or collected by a charitable organization which might otherwise be available for the organizations charitable functions must instead be expended for costs associated with attracting or receiving donations.

Another cost typically associated with or born by charitable organizations is the cost of handling the donated funds. In many situations donations take the form of coins currency and or negotiable instruments such as personal checks. Partially in situations where the charitable organization receives a relatively large number of donations in relatively small amounts the costs associated with handling such coins cash or checks such as costs of counting and or rolling or packaging coins counting cash and or checks and depositing these items in a financial institution further depletes funds of the charitable organization.

Yet another cost sometimes associated with charitable transactions is the cost associated with providing receipts to donors particularly receipts of a type that may be used by donors in calculating taxes or completing or documenting tax returns.

Donors to charitable organizations are sometimes solicited for donations in situations where the donors are presented with a single choice to donate or not to donate to a single particular charitable organization. Accordingly it would be useful to provide an apparatus and method in which potential donors are presented with a number of different options for the recipient of their donation.

In a number of situations a person wishing to make a donation to a particular charitable institution is required to either be in possession of a donation form and or an address for other information so that the donation may be transmitted to the correct recipient. Also donors often must bear the cost of postage or telephone calls. This situation is particularly problematic for donors who may have relocated temporally or permanently to a location far removed from the desired charitable organization.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 909 794 describes a donation transaction apparatus and method for facilitating donations to charitable organizations. The apparatus is configured to receive coins or in some embodiments cash or funds transfer authorization or credit charges and preferably dispenses a donation receipt to the user which the user may use to prepare or document income tax returns. Preferably the user is able to select among a plurality of charitable organizations to receive the donation.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of some example embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

According to various example embodiments described herein there is described a computer implemented method and apparatus for processing on line donations. In an example embodiment donation or giving functionality can be implemented on a publication system e.g. a blog system a community forum system a bulletin board system a forms system a network based social network system such as MYSPACE.COM or a network based marketplace such as EBAY.COM or any other system via which a user may publish information on a network e.g. the Internet with the support of a payments or financial system e.g. a networked banking system or payment system e.g. PAYPAL.COM .

Various embodiments relate to fund raising and charities. Fund raising and charity can be considered to include different types of donations. Charity qualifies for reporting on an IRS Form 50123 while fund raising includes for example raising money for a soccer team to fund a trip. Various embodiments relate to allowing a user to set up functionality to track donations through a payment system e.g. PayPal backend for currently operative donate now buttons or badges. In an example embodiment the functionality is provided through a badge built in for example Flash that is tied to a user s payment system e.g. PayPal account. An example of a badge in an example embodiment is shown in .

The badges are preferably made secure so that the recipient account is protected from being changed by someone other than the account owner. Donation level goals may be established through the badge.

Further the donation badge may provide a mechanism whereby a user can conveniently import a version of the donation badge to his or her publication page e.g. MYSPACE page . Such a badge which is instantiated from a particular badge is regarded as being child badge of the particular parent badge.

A parent badge can be used to spread children badges over web pages on the Internet when a user grabs a badge they want to spread around. A badge may be grabbed by selecting the badge and causing the copying of HTML code from a web page. Instead of copying the HTML code a badge may be dragged and dropped to a pre determined area on a web page to create a child badge.

A user who has posted a child badge on a web page may not have the same rights with respect to code within the badge as a user who posted the parent badge. In an example embodiment a user who has posted a child badge may be allowed to edit text displayed by the badge but not allowed to alter administrative functions linked to the badge. In an example embodiment certain web site administrators may be given master administration rights to all the badges that are created on their site. In some example embodiments a charity organization posting the badge may be allowed to customize a parent badge and some of the children badges would be allowed to be similarly customized. For example someone who has posted a child badge may be allowed to change the title or to post or change a comment displayed by the badge. In each case the money collected by the parent and child badges goes to the user who posted the badge e.g. the user who sells the badge because each of the badges are securely linked to the posting user s account in the payment system.

The payment system e.g. PayPal backend can provide validation for the charity represented by a particular badge. For example the payment system can validate a charity represented by a particular badge for a year. In addition the payment system backend may track how much money is generated by each badge. In an example embodiment a parent badge is posted on a Red Cross site where five people grab the badge from the Red Cross site and post the linked children badges on one or more other sites. Other people can grab the posted badges from those sites and post the badges on other sites. In this manner a collection of badges can spread throughout a number of sites. The payment system can track how much money is raised from each badge and each corresponding child badge because each badge is linked to the payment site. Thus the influence each badge has had can be determined. Because the linked children badges can be spread a parent badge that does not itself generate many donations can still have a high level of influence on overall donations.

In an example embodiment distributed badges create a giving tree. The giving tree presents a visual representation of the hierarchy of related badges. Thus users may be able to see the whole tree mouseover all of the badges and compare their income and position in the hierarchy.

In an example embodiment the badge can be distributed via email to another user who may be invited to post the badge in order to collect donations.

In an example embodiment the badges may solicit donations in the form of an item or items on a wish list. For example a badge may prompt a user donor to select for donation items such as basketballs jerseys or sneakers for an inner city school for example. In an example embodiment one badge soliciting three items e.g. basketballs jerseys and sneakers may be grabbed and posted as a child badge soliciting one item e.g. sneakers .

In another example embodiment a badge as described above can be used to facilitate enforcement of political fundraising regulations promulgated by the Federal Elections Commission FEC . The idea is to provide functionality for tracking contributions made via widgets and electronic transactions so that contribution totals regulations can be more easily and efficiently enforced. In an example embodiment a Flash application for example can prompt users contributors to respond to questions related to the FEC requirements. For example the contributor can be asked 1 are you a US citizen or permanent resident 2 are you donating personal funds not business funds etc. Example fundraising badges may incorporate all the FEC requirements through drag and drop functionality or by cut and pasting HTML code. The political fundraising implementation for a particular embodiment can be implemented as a particular version of the charity badge described herein.

In an example embodiment e.g. a Flash page a user is prompted to respond to a series of questions used to determine through a user s self disclosure whether the Federal Election Commission FEC regulations will apply to the user. For example the user can be asked are you a non profit qualifying for IRS 50123 status Are you a political campaign Or are you an individual fundraising not qualifying for IRS 50123. Based on the results the user is given a badge with or without the built in FEC regulation functionality. The badge can be a completely packaged FEC compliant badge used for soliciting political contributions.

While the example embodiment describes separate and distinct social networking and payment systems as examples of publication and financial systems it will be appreciated that the described functionality may of course be implemented within the confines of a single system.

As described herein a social networking system may be an attractive venue for entities looking to raise funds e.g. charities or political candidates . Social synergies and word of mouth campaigning within the context of a social networking system may provide highly targeted and demographic appropriate fundraising opportunities.

In an example embodiment a donation contribution function in the example form of a donation badge function is integrated into a publication system e.g. a social networking system . A donation badge may be associated with e.g. linked to an account provided by payment system e.g. PayPal to collect donated funds. In an example embodiment the donation badge is not activated until the receiving account is validated as being controlled and or owned by an approved non profit entity.

A donation badge as displayed on a publication page e.g. a MYSPACE page of the user may provide certain interactive and incentive information to users. For example a percentage indication of progress towards a total fund collection goal for the relevant account may be provided. This percentage application may take into account contributions received through an original badge as well as any child badges associate therewith. A particular badge may also provide an individual badge contribution indication displaying a value that has been raised through the individual badge. This is different from a total donation meter which shows total amounts raised from all distributed badge donations.

Further the donation badge may provide a convenient interface to the payment system using which a user can make a donation from a user account also potentially maintained with the payment system to an account associated with the approved non profit entity. A donation amount feature within a badge may allow users to enter a donation amount or select from a list of suggested amounts. Further the badge may specify certain accepted currencies or allowed a user to make a donation in any currency.

The donation badge may also display an honor roll in which users that have made and originated significant contributions e.g. in excess of a predetermined threshold via the relevant badge or any related badges may be a displayed in a ranked order. In one example the honor roll may attribute a rollup cumulative donation total of contributions made via a user s badge and all child badges to a user. Within the honor roll this rollup cumulative donation total may be displayed adjacent the user s name and the list of users presented in the honor roll may be ranked based on the rollup cumulative donation total. In another example the donation total may simply be donations received a through the user s badge and may exclude donations received through child badges.

In order to track the distribution of badges and also to maintain the relationships between badges each badge may upon instantiation be allocated a unique identifier. A donations applications described below may create and relate identifiers in order to maintain relationships between badges. As such collection of badges may conceptually be viewed as forming a giving tree with the badges forming the nodes of the tree and the branches defining the relationships between the badges.

In addition the recreation and the distribution of badges may be subjected to various vetting and validation options. For example the e mail address of a recipient associated with a particular badge may be validated upon each instantiation or distribution of a badge to ensure that the e mail address is correct and associated with a verified nonprofit entity e.g. a verified recipient of donations . This vetting and validation may reduce the potential for fraud which may be attempted by the association of an unvetted e mail address with an instantiation of a badge.

One example embodiment also includes a giving tree which provides a graphical representation of a category structure or tree of badges spawned from an initial or original badge created by or for an approved nonprofit receiving entity. The graphical representation may display a node for each badge along with the amounts badge has both directly and indirectly e.g. through child badges contributed to the donation campaign via the relevant badge. To this end and in the same way as described above with respect to the honor roll a donation application may attribute a rollup cumulative donation total of contributions made via particular badge and all child badges to the relevant badge. This rollup cumulative donation total may be a displayed adjacent in a node for the badge in the giving tree. In another example the donation total may simply be donations received a through the relevant badge and may exclude donations received through child badges.

Details of an example publication system and of an example payment system are described below with reference to . In an example embodiment the functions described herein may be supported by the described systems.

Dealing with the infrastructure of the networked publication system as an example an Application Program Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication applications e.g. marketplace or social networking applications . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . Similarly application servers of the payment system may host payment applications .

The publication applications may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the publication system . The payment applications of the payment system may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment applications may for example allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications .

While the system shown in employs a client server architecture embodiments are of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication and payment applications and could also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various publication and payment applications and via the web interfaces supported by the web servers . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the respective API servers . The programmatic client may for example be a publication application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by EBAY Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage documents e.g. listings on the publication system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the publication system .

The networked system may provide a number of publishing listing and price setting mechanisms whereby a user may publish information e.g. concerning him or herself and his or her interests or goods or services for sale . Further a user can express interest in the published information. Where the publication system supports a social networking function a user may express a social interest in the published information and the author thereof. Where the publication system supports a network based marketplace function for example a buyer can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the goods or services. A donor can also express interest in or indicate a desire to donate money goods or services and a price can be set for a transaction pertaining to the donated money goods or services.

The publication applications may include at least one publication application and one or more auction applications which support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Vickrey Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction applications may also provide a number of features in support of such auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding.

A number of fixed price applications support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by EBAY Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with auction format listings and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Store applications allow a seller to group listings within a virtual store which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the seller. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

Reputation applications allow users that transact utilizing the networked system to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the networked system supports person to person trading users may otherwise have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications allow a user for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the networked system over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

Personalization applications allow users of the networked system to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the networked system . For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application create a personalized reference page at which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further a personalization application may enable a user to personalize listings and other aspects of their interactions with the networked system and other parties.

The networked system may support a number of web sites that are customized for example for specific geographic regions. A version of the networked system may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the networked system may be customized for the United States. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace. The networked system may accordingly include a number of internationalization applications that customize information and or the presentation of information by the networked system according to predetermined criteria e.g. geographic demographic or marketplace criteria . For example the internationalization applications may be used to support the customization of information for a number of regional websites that are operated by the networked system and that are accessible via respective web servers .

Navigation of the networked system may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application as an example of a navigation application may enable key word searches of listings published via the networked system . A browse application may allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the networked system . Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications.

In order to make listings available via the networked system as visually informing and attractive as possible the marketplace applications may include one or more imaging applications utilizing which users may upload images for inclusion within listings. An imaging application also operates to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging applications may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

Publication creation applications allow users to conveniently also contend for publication via the publication system . For example a user of a social networking site may conveniently be provided with templates using which the user may author a personal profile and create links to contend that reflects the user s interests. In another example sellers may be enabled conveniently to author listings pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the networked system and publication management applications allow sellers to manage such publications. In one example where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of listings the management of such listings may present a challenge. The publication management applications provide a number of features e.g. auto relisting inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such listings. One or more post publication management applications also assist sellers with a number of activities that typically occur post listing. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction applications a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post publication management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation applications so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation applications .

Dispute resolution applications provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between users e.g. transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of steps in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications implement fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within or outside of the publication system .

Messaging applications are responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of the networked system such messages for example advising users regarding the status of listings at the networked system e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or to provide promotional and merchandising information to users . Respective messaging applications may utilize any one have a number of message delivery networks and platforms to deliver messages to users. For example messaging applications may deliver electronic mail e mail instant message IM Short Message Service SMS text facsimile or voice e.g. Voice over IP VoIP messages via the wired e.g. the Internet Plain Old Telephone Service POTS or wireless e.g. mobile cellular WiFi WiMAX networks.

Merchandising applications support various merchandising functions that are made available to sellers to enable sellers to increase sales via the networked system . The merchandising applications also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

The applications may also include a donation application which include an account creation module a nonprofit verification module a badge tracking module a donation amount tracking module and a badge personalization module not shown . These various modules may in the various embodiments be distributed between the publication system and that the payment system . In an example embodiment these modules are responsible for the performance of the various donation badge functions described herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals. The invention can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The invention can be implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method operations of the invention can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions of the invention by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of the invention can be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments may be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback such as visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the invention or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Certain applications or processes are described herein as including a number of modules or mechanisms. A module or a mechanism may be a unit of distinct functionality that can provide information to and receive information from other modules. Accordingly the described modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Modules may also initiate communication with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information . The modules may include hardware circuitry optical components single or multi processor circuits memory circuits software program modules and objects firmware and combinations thereof as appropriate for particular implementations of various embodiments.

The methods described herein may be performed by processing logic that may comprise hardware e.g. dedicated logic programmable logic firmware e.g. microcode etc. software e.g. algorithmic or relational programs run on a general purpose computer system or a dedicated machine or a combination of the above. It will be noted that in an example embodiment the processing logic may reside in any of the modules described herein.

Although an embodiment of the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Thus a computer implemented method and apparatus for processing on line donations is disclosed. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

