---

title: Systems and methods for storing and searching data in a customer center environment
abstract: Systems and methods for storing data in a customer center environment are provided. In this regard, a representative method comprises: generating data from workforce applications, at least one of the workforce applications including at least one of forecasting, scheduling, recording, and monitoring functionalities; and storing the data from the at least one of the workforce applications in a storage area network (SAN), the SAN being operable to connect the at least one of the workforce applications to computer storage devices. The method can further include keeping recorded contacts in a long term storage device such as the SAN or an operational data store (ODS) and transparently searching in both the ODS and the SAN simultaneously. With a concept of moving data on to a file system SAN which is cheaper as compared to a database technology such as ODS, the method facilitates predictable performance from the ODS and easier manageability with constant cost from SAN.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07953750&OS=07953750&RS=07953750
owner: Verint Americas, Inc.
number: 07953750
owner_city: Melville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070330
---
This application claims the benefit of copending U.S. provisional application entitled Systems and Methods for Searching Data in a Customer Center Environment having Ser. No. 60 847 872 filed Sep. 28 2006 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference and is related to U.S. utility application entitled Systems and Methods For Storing And Searching Data in a Customer Center Environment Ser. No. 11 693 899 filed on Mar. 30 2007 which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure is generally related to storing and searching data in a customer center environment.

The business of a call center also known as a customer center is to provide rapid and efficient interaction between agents and customers or prospective customers . Existing solutions require the purchase of multiple hardware and software components typically from different vendors to achieve the business goals of the customer center. The use of separate systems of components leads to a variety of problems. For instance each system typically has its own method of configuration and its own user interface. Thus exchanging data between the systems typically requires additional work by someone at the customer center.

Furthermore customer centers are continually tasked with striking a balance between service quality efficiency effectiveness revenue generation cost cutting and profitability among others. As a result today s customer center agents are charged with mastering multiple data sources and systems delivering consistent service across customer touch points up selling cross selling and saving at risk customers while winning new ones.

Data in the data sources and systems is typically stored in a structured database. The structured database is continually changing and growing due to the technological changes and development of customer centers. Because of compliance regulations the structured database typically stores data for the recorded contacts for a long duration such as seven 7 to ten 10 years. Thus the structured database is increasingly large in size of storage and complicated to use which may result in the increase of maintenance and licensing costs the addition of more hardware and the unreliable predictability in performance in querying the structured database.

Systems and methods for searching in a customer center environment are provided. In this regard a representative method comprises generating data from a plurality of workforce applications at least one of the plurality of workforce applications including at least one of forecasting scheduling recording and monitoring functionalities storing the data in a plurality of unstructured databases at least one of the plurality of unstructured databases being operative to communicate with one of the plurality of workforce applications the at least one of the plurality of unstructured databases including a plurality of unstructured data that does not have a data structure receiving search parameters that are used to search the data in the at least one of the plurality of unstructured databases searching the at least one of the plurality of unstructured databases according to the search parameters and displaying search results on a displaying device.

An exemplary system for storing data in a customer center system comprises workforce applications that include at least one of forecasting scheduling recording and monitoring functionalities at least one of the workforce applications being operative to generate data related to customer center functionalities. The system further includes an operational data store operable to integrate data from the at least one of the workforce applications to facilitate operations analysis and reporting and a storage area network operable to connect the at least one of the workforce applications to computer storage devices via the operational data store the storage area network of which is operable to store the data from the at least one of the workforce applications. At least one of the workface applications is operable to search in both the operational data store and storage area network.

Other systems methods features and advantages of the present disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the present disclosure and be protected by the accompanying claims.

Disclosed herein are systems and methods for storing and searching data in a customer center environment. A customer center can include but is not limited to outsourced contact centers outsourced customer relationship management customer relationship management voice of the customer customer interaction contact center multi media contact center remote office distributed enterprise work at home agents remote agents branch office back office performance optimization workforce optimization hosted contact centers payroll systems and speech analytics for example.

Additionally included in this disclosure are embodiments of integrated workforce optimization platforms as discussed in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 359 356 filed on Feb. 22 2006 entitled Systems and Methods for Workforce Optimization which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. At least one embodiment of an integrated workforce optimization platform integrates 1 Quality Monitoring Call Recording voice of the customer the complete customer experience across multimedia touch points 2 Workforce Management strategic forecasting and scheduling that drives efficiency and adherence aids in planning and helps facilitate optimum staffing and service levels 3 Performance Management key performance indicators KPIs and scorecards that analyze and help identify synergies opportunities and improvement areas 4 e Learning training new information and protocol disseminated to staff leveraging best practice customer interactions and delivering learning to support development and or 5 Analytics deliver insights from customer interactions to drive business performance. By way of example the integrated workforce optimization process and system can include planning and establishing goals from both an enterprise and center perspective to ensure alignment and objectives that complement and support one another. Such planning may be complemented with forecasting and scheduling of the workforce to ensure optimum service levels. Recording and measuring performance may also be utilized leveraging quality monitoring call recording to assess service quality and the customer experience.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems are described examples of flow diagrams of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which data can be stored and searched.

Referring now in more detail to the figures illustrates an embodiment of a customer center environment . The customer center environment is staffed by agents who handle incoming and or outgoing contacts. Although the traditional and most common form of contact is by phone other types of contacts are becoming more common e.g. text chat web collaboration email and fax among others . An agent workspace can include an agent phone and a workstation computer . A network connects one or more of the workstations .

A contact router distributes incoming contacts to available agents. For example when the contacts are made by traditional phone lines the contact router operates by connecting outside trunk lines to agent trunk lines . In this environment the contact router may be implemented by an automatic call distributor ACD which queues calls until a suitable agent is available. Other types of contacts such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP calls and computer based contacts e.g. chat and email are routed over one or more data networks. These contacts are distributed over network to one of the agent workstations . Alternatively or additionally the contact router can include but is not limited to an instant messenger IM server an e mail server and a computer telephony integration CTI server among others.

Typical use of the agent workforce related applications results in data being provided to one or more databases. The data can be extracted transformed and loaded in an enterprise data mart . The data processing can access the data to provide parameter reports ad hoc reports custom reports scorecards an on line analytical processing OLAP browser and predictive analytics among others.

Alternatively or additionally data generated from the applications such as quality monitoring forecasting and scheduling compliance recording adherence learning and voice recognition can be stored in the data source in multiple respective databases not shown . The operation of the applications is further described in relation to .

The subject matter related to the data source data mart and data processing is related to the subject matter disclosed in a pending U.S. patent application which is entitled Systems and Methods For Contact Center Analysis U.S. application Ser. No. 11 479 267 filed on Jun. 30 2006 and incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The search engine can be deployed at a centralized location e.g. within a customer center and or embedded into a network as a service on the network and or as intelligence in the network infrastructure. The search engine communicates with the data source data mart and data processing to search and retrieve data based on search parameters. The data source data mart and data processing store data in either a structured database or unstructured database or both. The structured database includes structured data which are generally information that has been broken down and categorized. The structured database is further described in relation to .

The unstructured database includes a plurality of unstructured data which are generally information that do not have a data structure. Examples of unstructured data may include but is not limited to audio video recorded contacts meta data such as but not limited to start time and end time of the call agentID customerID and location of audio file among others and unstructured text such as but not limited to the body of an email or word processor document. The unstructured database is further described in relation to .

The search engine receives a query from a user and processes the query using a search algorithm. The search engine searches either the structured database or unstructured database or both based on the query. The search engine provides a search result in text format. The operation of the search engine is further described in relation to .

If the data is to be stored in the structured database then at least some portions of the data are transmitted to the structured database . For example the data compilation manager can determine if the data includes by way of example but is not limited to agent ID date of CTI event talkover start time talkover end time ring time and number of transfers among others. Responsive to the determination at least some portions of the data are transmitted stored and categorized in the structured database .

If the data compilation manager makes a determination to store the data in the unstructured database then at least some portions of the data are transmitted to the data to text converter . For example the data compilation manager can be configured to transmit the data that is not stored in the structured database to the unstructured database . Alternatively or additionally the data compilation manager can be configured to transmit all data from the quality monitoring to the unstructured database including data that is stored in the structured database.

The data to text converter receives the data from the data compilation manager and converts the data to a text format such as an eXtensible Markup Language XML or HyperText Markup Language HTML format. The converted data is transmitted and stored in the unstructured database . Alternatively or additionally the data being stored in the databases can also be stored in an enterprise data mart . The enterprise data mart can be used as a long term storage whereas the databases can be used as a short term storage.

Metadata can be included in the converted data that can facilitate indexing. For example the metadata includes specified key words and concepts under which the data can be indexed. This can be helpful especially in cases in which the words in the data might have multiple meanings. The metadata can guide the search engine in choosing which of the meanings for these words is correct. The search engine can confirm whether the metadata is correct by correlating metadata with content and rejecting the metadata that does not match the words in the data.

The search engine includes a search parameter input which receives search parameters or a query from a user. The parameters are then used by a search algorithm to search the databases . The search parameters can involve one or more words with the use of Boolean operators that allow the user to refine and extend the terms of the search. The Boolean operators most often seen are 

Alternatively or additionally the search engine includes a feature of a conditional search with conditional expressions such as ten 10 instances of transferred calls found in a document for a particular contact. Alternatively or additionally the search algorithm can define the search parameter as literal searches. That is the search algorithm searches for the words or phrases exactly as the words are entered in the search parameter input .

Alternatively or additionally the search algorithm can define the search parameters as concept based searches that use statistical analysis on the data containing the words or phrases defined in the search parameters. Alternatively or additionally the search algorithm can define the search parameters as natural language queries. The search parameters in the natural language queries are in the form of a question in the same way a person would ask another person.

The search results of the search algorithm are then indexed by a search index . The search index can highlight the words in the search results that were used in the search parameter and prioritize the search results. The search index can include the number of times that the word appears in the search results. The search index can assign a weight to each entry with increasing values assigned to the words as the words appear near the top of the document in sub headings in links in the metadata or in the title of the document among others.

The search index allows information to be found quickly. An example of the index is a hash table. When using a hash table or hashing a formula is applied to attach a numerical value or hash value to each word. The formula is designed to evenly distribute the entries across a predetermined number of divisions. This numerical distribution is different from the distribution of words across the alphabet.

For example in the English vocabulary there are more words that begin with some letters than other letters. For instance there are more words that begin with the letter M than the letter X . This means that finding a word beginning with the letter M could take much longer than finding a word that begins with letter X . The hash table contains a hash value along with a pointer to the actual data which can be sorted in a way that allows the data to be stored most efficiently. The combination of efficient indexing and effective storage facilitates getting results quickly even when the user creates a complicated search. Another example related to a contact center is searching for calls with a customer ID X called on Jan. 1 1997 and associated with Agent Bob on Campaign Sell Shares .

The search results are then sent to a data encoding conversion which determines whether to convert the search result to a text format. If the search result is to be converted the encoding conversion converts the search results to a text format such as an XML or HTML format. If the data of the search results is in the text format the data is then transmitted and stored in a search result database .

Alternatively or additionally the search engine can be configured to search in the structured database for specific contact attribute search criteria. The search engine can include a specific graphical user interface not shown and specific query composition not shown that enables the search engine to communicate with the structured database .

The SAN can further communicate with the data source directly without receiving data from the ODS . The SAN is generally a network that connects a computing device such as those in the data source to computer storage devices such as disk array controllers and tape libraries. Generally the SAN has two variations. The first variation of SAN is a network the primary purpose of which is the transfer of data between computer systems and storage elements. The SAN can include a communication infrastructure which provides physical connections and a management layer which organizes lie connections storage elements and computer systems so that data transfer is secure and robust.

The second variation of SAN is a storage network that can include storage elements storage devices computer systems and or appliances plus all control software communicating over a network. In a storage network a server issues a request for specific blocks or data segments from specific disk drives. The storage networks can use a small computer system interface SCSI protocol for communication between servers and devices. SAN physical interfaces can include but are not limited to 1 Gbit Fibre Channel 2 Gbit Fibre Channel 4 Gbit Fibre Channel and in limited cases 1 Gbit iSCSI. The SCSI protocol information can be carried over a lower level protocol via a mapping layer.

Some SANs allow duplication functionality such as cloning and snapshotting which allows for real time duplication of a logical unit number LUN for the purposes of backup disaster recovery or system duplication. Cloning creates a complete replica of the LUN in the background consuming I O resources in the process while snapshotting stores the original states of any blocks that get changed after the snapshot from the original LUN and does not significantly slow the system.

The SAN can include a file system that can store and organize computer files. Such files can contain data to facilitate finding and accessing the files. The file system can use a storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM. The file system can be involved in maintaining the physical location of the files. The file system can provide access to data on a file server by acting as clients for a network protocol e.g. network file system NFS server message block SMB or plan 9 filesystem protocol 9P clients . The file system can be virtual and exist as an access method for virtual data.

In general the file system is a set of abstract data types that are implemented for the storage hierarchical organization manipulation navigation access and retrieval of data. The file system can make use of an underlying data storage device that offers access to an array of fixed size blocks generally 512 bytes each for example. The file system includes software that facilitates organizing the blocks into files and directories and keeping tack of which sectors belong to which file and which are not being used. Alternatively or additionally the file system can operate with a storage device. The file system can be used to organize and provide access to any data whether it be stored or dynamically generated e.g. from a network connection .

With or without the use of storage devices the file system generally has directories that associate file names with files usually by connecting the file name to an index into a file allocation table of some sort such as the file allocation table FAT in an MS DOS file system or in any other type of operating system which use file systems to store files. Directory structures may be flat or allow hierarchies where directories may contain subdirectories. In some file systems file names are structured with special syntax for filename extensions and version numbers. In others file names are simple strings and per file metadata is stored elsewhere.

In general the data warehouse is a computer system that archives and analyzes an organization s historical data such as sales salaries or other information from day to day operations. The data warehouse can use a dimensional approach to organize the stored data. The dimensional approach stores data as facts which are numeric or text data that capture specific data about a single transaction or event and dimensions which contain reference information that allow each transaction or event to be classified in various ways.

Alternatively or additionally at least one application of the data source can capture and store the data related to an interaction in a text format. For example quality monitoring of the data source can store information corresponding to the interaction in the unstructured database in which the information is floating around in a text format. The search engine can search for key words in the text such as contact ID start time end time DNIS talk over start time talk over end time and competitor s name for example. The unstructured database may include characters integers float character large object clob and binary large object blob .

Based on the search results step determines whether the data is to be encoded and converted. If the data is to be converted step encodes and converts the data in for example either an XML format or HTML format or both. Step stores the data in a search result database. If the data is already in an XML or HTML format and does not need data encoding and or conversion then the data is stored in the search result database.

If the data is determined to be stored in a structured database step extracts transforms and loads the data in a structured database. Step provides communication between the databases and the search engine in a secure connection such that the search engine can search the databases. Alternatively or additionally the data in the unstructured and or structured databases can be transmitted to a data mart such as that shown in such that the search engine can search the data mart.

If the data is not to be encoded and or converted then step stores the data associated with the search result in a search result database of the search engine. If the data is to be encoded and or converted then step encodes and converts the data in either the XML format or HTML format or both. Step stores the encoded converted data in the search result database. Step displays the search result on a display device.

The systems and methods disclosed herein can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. In some embodiments the system and or method is implemented in software that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable microprocessor P situated in a computing device. However the systems and methods can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Such instruction execution systems include any computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch and execute the instructions from the instruction execution system. In the context of this disclosure a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to a system or propagation medium that is based on electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor technology.

Specific examples of a computer readable medium using electronic technology would include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory . A specific example using magnetic technology includes but is not limited to a portable computer diskette. Specific examples using optical technology include but are not limited to optical fiber and compact disc read only memory CD ROM .

The scope of certain embodiments of the present disclosure includes embodying the functionality of the preferred embodiments of the present disclosure in logic embodied in hardware and or software configured media.

It should be noted that the flowcharts included herein show the architecture functionality and or operation of implementations. In this regard each block can be interpreted to represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the blocks may occur out of the order. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of this disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure.

