---

title: Geographic image overlay
abstract: A computer-implemented method for correlating an electronic object with a geo-location is discussed. The method includes selecting an object in a first application for determination of a geo-location for the selected object, graphically identifying, in a second application, a geo-location to be associated with the selected object, and updating one or more values stored with the selected object to include information relating to the geo-location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07978207&OS=07978207&RS=07978207
owner: Google Inc.
number: 07978207
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070613
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 813 390 filed on Jun. 13 2006 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

People enjoy sharing photos with each other. In earlier days such sharing occurred by opening wallets or scrapbooks for friends or by gathering around a slide projector in dark room. Today such sharing may occur via e mail via broadcast to proprietary digital picture frames or via photo sharing applications such as Google s Picasa.

Google also provides geographic specific information via its well known Google Earth application. This application permits users to navigate the world easily using a graphical representation so as to find particular geographic areas and to see satellite photos maps and 3D structures placed at particular geographic locations.

This document describes approaches for correlating photos and other similar objects with a geographic information system such as Google Earth. The described features may permit a user to conveniently identify an object such as by selecting a photo in an image application like Picasa and selecting a geographic location to associate with the object such as the location at which a photo was taken. The identification of a geographic location may occur for example by visually navigating to a location such as by using a graphical program having zoom and pan features like Google Earth. The navigation may also occur by entering an address into an application like Google Earth the visual representation may then zoom in on that location.

In addition information associated with the object such as a tag associated with a photo may provide a geographic location for an object. That geographic location may cause an application to initially zoom in on that location allowing a user to more readily identify the appropriate location for geo correlating with the object. The location may also be used as the geo correlation for the object. For example if a photo has a tag of Weekend in Chicago an application may identify the geo coordinates for the photo as the center of Chicago Ill. Where contextual information about an object such as tags is indeterminate as to a location other contextual information may be analyzed. For example other objects in a common library may be reviewed to provide a more definite determination of geo location. For example if a photo is labeled Weekend in Eldred it might refer to Eldred Minn. or Eldred Ill. However if another photo is labeled The Climax Elevator the system may infer that the first photo is to be geo correlated with Eldred Minn. which is only 7 to 8 miles from Climax Minn.

Also the other contextual information may be information about the user. For example the user may have a profile with a system that identifies their home address or the system may analyze IP address information about the user to determine the user s home location. This information may also be used to make determinations about geo correlation more definite.

In one implementation a computer implemented method for correlating an electronic object with a geo location is disclosed. The method includes selecting an object in a first application for determination of a geo location for the selected object graphically identifying in a second application a geo location to be associated with the selected object and updating one or more values stored with the selected object to include information relating to the geo location. The selected object may comprise an image file which may in turn comprise a JPEG file. Graphically identifying a geo location can comprise graphically zooming and panning in a visual representation of the earth.

In some aspects updating the one or more values stored with the object includes writing geo location data to fields in an image file. Also the one or more values may comprise longitude latitude data or may comprise longitude latitude data and additionally comprise viewing information. In addition updating the one or more values stored with the object to include information related to the geo location may comprise passing latitude longitude information from the second application to another application.

In another implementation a computer implemented method is disclosed that includes identifying a digital image graphically navigating a geographic information system application to identify a location to associate with the digital image and automatically modifying meta data associated with the digital image to include data for the identified location. The method may further comprise passing information about the identified digital image from an image application to a geo application. The geo application can include the geographic information system application in some implementations. Also the geo application can include an application in communication with the geographic information system application. In some aspects the method further comprises transmitting location data from the geographic information system application to a photo application storing the digital image.

In yet another implementation a computer implemented system is disclosed. The system includes an imaging application for accessing and organizing digital images a geographic information application including controls for graphically identifying a geographic location and means for communicating location information from the geographic information application to the imaging application for identifying locations associated with images accessed by the imaging application. The means for communicating location information may in some aspects comprise a web application that is launched by a control in the imaging application and that communicates with the geographic information application through an application programming interface.

In some aspects the geographic information application provides latitude longitude information in response to graphical navigation to a location on a map. Also the geographic information application can provide latitude longitude information in response to submission of an address based query. For its part the imaging application can transmit information about user selected images using mark up language transmissions in certain implementations. Also the means for communicating may access image files for the digital images in a native location for the digital image files. The means for communicating may also be configured to update image header information associated with the digital images to include location information.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

An image server may provide through a local host webserver for the serving of images to various applications such as a web browser and applications running within a web browser. The image server may include servers such as those used with the Google Picasa application. In certain implementations the images may be served to a geographic information system such as a Google Earth server or client using standard APIs. For example Google Earth format KML or KMZ files may be written by the image server or a client accessing the image server so as to cause images served by the image server to be referenced when the geographic information system executes the file or files. For example a geographic mapping server may be provided with the ability to ask a web server information using a latitude longitude query so that when a location is fixed upon by a user in a geography objects such as images associated with the location may be displayed. Such objects may also be accessed for multiple users and icons such as animated pins may be shown on a map or a 3D representation of a geography to permit easier access to geo correlated objects such as photos. One exemplary implementation for permitting the geo correlation of objects such as digital photos is shown in the figures below.

Other portions of the display may provide additional functionality. For example navigation pane may show storage locations of files such as photos stored on a local client or at a remote server. The files may be organized by storage folders tags ratings or other known organizational techniques. A lower display area may show information about the selected thumbnail such as meta data relating to a photo e.g. a lat long pair associated with a geo tagged photo . The lower display area may also include a number of controls for interacting with objects such as photos. The controls may permit for example for the viewing or creation of a custom web photo album for e mailing or printing selected photos for ordering mail order prints of selected photos for posting a blog entry about a photo for building a collage out of multiple selected photos and for exporting photos such as to other applications.

In the pull down menus the choice for Clear Geotag is not currently available as indicated by gray or light text because the selected image has not yet been geotagged. If the image had already been tagged the clear geotag selection would remove geographic information from the image file or with a file associated with the image file so as to restore it to a non geo correlated status.

Selection of the Export to Google Earth File choice may cause the creation of a file such as a KML file that identifies the selected object and also identifies location specific information for the file. In this manner a geographic information system such as Google Earth can access such a file to display the object in an appropriate location when the application for the geographic information system is executed.

Selection of the View in Google Earth choice may cause the object to be shown in a geo correlated location in an application for a geographic information system such as Google Earth where the object has previously been geo correlated.

Selection of the Geotag with Google Earth choice may start a process that is shown in . is a screen shot of a geo application interoperating with a photo tool. is a screen shot of a geo application interoperating with a photo tool. In general may show such operation before a location is associated with a object or objects such as a photo or photos while may show such operation after a correlated location has been identified by a user.

Initially the process may cause a geographic information system application such as Google Earth to be launched or to be made active if it is already running. In addition a topmost window may be opened such as in the Windows operating system or another operating system. The topmost window may be unknown to the Google Earth client but may access information about the geographic information system such as the current location on which the system is focused by accessing through a provided API using COM or another component model for the system. Such a window is shown in .

Instructions may be provided to a user in the topmost window such as instructions to a user to navigate in the geographic information system to identify a location for the object such as an digital photo. A selection button labeled Geotag may be selected by the user when they have identified a location and the image application or topmost window application may access location information such as latitude longitude coordinates from the geographic information system and associate them with the object. The location information may be stored in a database associated with the image application and may be associated there with the particular object or objects.

A selection of a Geotag All button may cause all previously selected photos from the image application or all images in a particular folder or other group to be correlated with a common identified geographic location from the geographic information system. Such photos may be the various photos displayed in and referenced by window . Selection of a Done button may cause the topmost window to close and the user to be returned to the geographic information system application or the image application.

The geographic image system application may include an number of relevant areas or panes. For example a search box may receive an address query from a user and may resolve the address to a geographic location such as a lat long pair and may cause the focus of a geographic view of the application to change to that location e.g. to zoom in from a world view to a close up view . A places pane may show particular locations by name such as famous locations or locations that a particular user has previously identified for the system. A user may then simply select one of those locations to have the application focus the geographic view on that selected location. A layers pane shows various categories of metadata associated with a geography such as street names borders and points of interest and various of the layers may be selected by a user for display. Selection of more layers adds useful information to the display but at the same time may clutter the display.

A control area provides a number of navigation controls for moving around in the area. For example particular layers may be turned on and off using check boxes. Also pan and tilt of a 3D world view may be adjusted as may rotation and zoom level in familiar manners.

At appropriate points in the process certain information may be associated with the photos. For example geographic information such as coordinates may be written into fields in the file format for the photo such as EXIF header fields for a JPEG image. In this manner the geo correlation information may follow the image even if it is sent e.g. via disk or e mail to another location and is thus no longer correlated with a particular instance of an image application or geographic information system. In addition data files associated with the geographic information system may also be created and or updated such as files in the form of the known KML and KMZ files used with the Google Earth application.

The image application and the geographic information system application may be located on a client on a server or on both a client and a server with appropriate functionality provided by each component. Likewise the application generating the window may be on a client or server. The applications may communicate using a standard web based application programming interface API and may thus be located on different computers or servers and on different or the same domains. Alternatively the applications may be on a common server even where web based API communication is used.

At box an image application displays photos to a user. The user then selects one or more photos at box . The user may then select a control to identify a desire to have the photos geo correlated such as by clicking on an icon or menu selection related to such actions. Such a selection may cause the image application to transmit data in a certain manner such as in an XML or KML mark up file to another application. The data may include one or more identifiers for the selected photos along with any geo correlating information that may already be associated with the selected files e.g. in their EXIF data . Such selection may also cause the imaging application to trigger the launch or activation of a geographic information system application and or a helper application associated with the geographic imaging application act .

Using such applications a user may then select a geo location for the one or more selected images. One location may be selected from a group of images or locations may be selected one by one. The selection may happen graphically or by a combination of entering an address or other information and then navigating graphically. The navigational interface for Google Earth provides an example of such navigational possibilities.

When a location for the photo s has been identified the user may select a control to geo tag the photos with the selected location. The geographic information system application or the helper application may access the image using the information provided by the image application and may access the location data e.g. lat long coordinates from the geographic information system application and may update meta data associated with the image s e.g. EXIF data to reflect the particular location selected b the user box . Subsequent accessing of the files may take advantage of the geo correlating information such as by providing a map each time a geo correlated pictures is displayed.

At box the photo application is opened and accesses and displays photos for a user in a conventional manner. At box the user selects one or more of the displayed photos. At box the user executes a command to indicate that he or she would like to geo correlate the selected photos. This selection causes the photo application to package the photos such as by generating a mark up file providing an identifier for each of the selected photos e.g. a URI or path and file name . The photo application may then cause the geo application to be launched so that locations for the photos may be identified by the user box .

When launched the geo application or applications may display both a geography such as a map or a 3D representation of the earth or another planet or the moon . Such display may permit a user to identify a particular photo or photos to locate and then to navigate to a particular location. When both such actions have occurred box the user may select a control to cause the selected photo s to be geo correlated with the selected location s . Such geo correlation generally occurs by updating meta data in a header of an image file or in a file associated with an image filed box . The editing may occur via the geo application including a helper application that communicates with a stock geographic information service application or by another application such as the photo application.

Mobile device represents a smartphone PDA digital camera or other similar device that has image capture capability. In this example the device is capable of directly uploading photos wirelessly to a user account or to another location. A computer represents a desktop personal computer that the user may have at home and that the user employs to manage a large photo collection.

Photo servers represent servers e.g. including web servers that may store digital images for a user either for short term or long term time frames. For example the photo servers may receive photos taken by the mobile device and may hold them until the user downloads them to his or her computer . Alternatively the servers may hold the photos for a longer period of time and the user may access the photos on line using the servers .

Geo servers may provide a graphical geographical information service such as Google Earth. The service may permit search and graphical navigation of geographical space such as in the manners discussed above. The servers may communicate geographical information such as lat long data for selected locations to other components in the system .

Lettered arrows show an example of a flow of information in the system . Arrow A shows mobile device capturing a photo and communicating with photo servers to upload the photo for later access. The mobile device may be used to apply certain metadata to the photo. For example if the device has a GPS capability it may automatically geo code the photo. Likewise a user of the device may select one or more tags to associate with the photo e.g. European Vacation Packers game etc. 

As shown by Arrow B the user may later return to his or her home and may begin managing his or her photo collection. For example the user may have returned from a long vacation during which he or she took numerous pictures. The user may log onto the photo servers to access his or her photo collection which may then be downloaded to the user s computer or may have previously been loaded onto the computer . The user may select certain photos for geo tagging such as all photos having a common tag and arrow D shows the redirection of the user s computer to geo servers .

Such redirection may occur by the launching of a geo application on the computer such as in a web page accessed by the computer . Via Arrow D information about the selected photos is provided to the geo application or an application associated with the geo application and the user may operate the system to identify a location for associating with the photos. In certain implementations information about the photos may also be passed from photo servers to geo servers as shown by Arrow D either directly or via computer .

Arrow E represents a command from the user to geo tag a photo or photos. The command may cause the geo servers to release information such as lat long data for the location that was selected by the user. Such data may be passed by the geo servers to the computer or to photo servers Arrow E and may then be added to the relevant selected photos. Subsequent accessing of the photos may then take advantage of the geo tagged information.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device memory on processor or a propagated signal.

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is exemplary only. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory memory on processor or a propagated signal that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of embodiments have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of what has been described. For example various forms of the flows shown above may be used with steps re ordered added or removed. Also although several applications of photo geo correlation systems and methods have been described it should be recognized that numerous other applications are contemplated. Accordingly other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

