---

title: Apparatus and methods for retrieving/ downloading content on a communication device
abstract: Apparatus, methods, processors, and computer readable media for receiving or transmitting content based on a presentation area size of a communication device are provided. In one aspect, the method includes obtaining a presentation area size of a display on a first communication device, and obtaining a first portion of content from a second communication device located across a communications network. The first portion of content is based on the presentation area size. The method further includes storing the first portion of content in a memory of the first communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943164&OS=08943164&RS=08943164
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08943164
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071224
---
The described aspects relate to wireless communication devices and more particularly to retrieving and downloading content onto a wireless communication device.

Communication devices are increasingly being used to retrieve and view content located across communications networks on devices such as servers. For instance the user may traverse a large hierarchical menu structure on the server in order to get to the content of interest to the user. Further the menu structure being traversed can be large relative to the capacity of the communication device retrieving the menu structure. As a result the user may need to wait while the menu structure is retrieved from the server. With many users expectation of instant access to information the wait may frustrate the user.

The user may further need to wait for content from a server when supplemental information is associated with items of the content. For example an application that may use a hierarchical menu structure could be a sales application with the items of the menu structure being goods for sale such as video games ringtones etc. Further for example the video game may include supplemental information such as an image or short animation while the ringtone may include supplemental information such as a sample of the ringtone. Although this supplemental information may increase the likelihood of the product being purchased the user may have to wait for the supplemental information to be retrieved from the server potentially causing delay and leading to a poor user experience. Additionally communication devices have relatively small displays making it frustrating for the user to view supplemental information associated with an item of a menu or product e.g. an image of a video game. As such a laborious manipulation of the device may be required in order to see the full screen shot or additional screen shots.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an apparatus and method that provides an enhanced user experience when viewing menu structures and supplemental information associated with menu items of the menu structure.

The described aspect provide apparatus methods processors and computer program products for obtaining and or transmitting content based on the presentation area of a device requesting content.

In an aspect a communication device is provided. The communication device comprises a processor an output device a memory and a retrieval module. The output device is in communication with the processor and has a display with a presentation area size. The memory is in communication with the processor and stores the retrieval module. The retrieval module has retrieval logic executable by the processor to generate a first content request to retrieve a first portion of content from a second communication device located across a communications network. The first portion of content is based on the presentation area size. The retrieval module is further operable to initiate storage of the first portion of content in the memory.

In another aspect a method for retrieving content on a communication device is provided. The method includes obtaining a presentation area size of a display on a first communication device and obtaining a first portion of content from a second communication device located across a communications network. The first portion of content is based on the presentation area size. The method further includes storing the first portion of content in a memory of the first communication device.

In still another aspect at least one processor for retrieving content on a communication device is provided. The processor includes a first module obtaining a presentation area size of a display on a first communication device and a second module for obtaining a first portion of content from a second communication device located across a communications network. The first portion of content is based on the presentation area size. The processor further includes a third module for storing the first portion of content in a memory of the first communication device.

In still another aspect a computer program product is provided. The computer program product comprises a computer readable medium that includes at least one instruction for causing a computer to obtain a presentation area size of a display on a first communication device. The computer readable medium further includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to obtain a first portion of content from a second communication device located across a communications network. The first portion of content is based on the presentation area size. Further included in the computer readable medium is at least one instruction for causing the computer to store the first portion of content in a memory of the first communication device.

In yet another aspect an apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes means for obtaining a presentation area size of a display on a first communication device. The apparatus further includes means for obtaining a first portion of content from a second communication device located across a communications network. The first portion of content is based on the presentation area size. Further included in the apparatus is means for storing the first portion of content in a memory of the first communication device.

In yet another aspect a network device is provided. The network device comprises a processor and a memory in communication with the processor where the memory comprises content. The network device further comprises a download manager module stored in the memory. The download manager module has download manager logic executable by the processor to receive a first content request from a communication device having a presentation area size and located across a communications network. The download manager logic is further executable to transmit a first portion of the content based on the first content request and the presentation area size to the communication device.

In still another aspect a method of delivering content to a communication device is provided. The method includes receiving a first content request from a second communication device having a presentation area size and located across a communications network. The method further includes transmitting to the communication device a first portion of the content based on the first content request and the presentation area size.

In yet another aspect at least one processor configured to deliver content to a communication device is provided. The processor includes a first module for receiving a first content request from a second communication device having a presentation area size and located across a communications network. The processor further includes a second module for transmitting to the communication device a first portion of the content based on the first content request and the presentation area size.

In still another aspect a computer program product is provided. The computer program comprises a computer readable medium comprising at least one instruction for causing a computer to receive a first content request from a second communication device having a presentation area size and located across a communications network. The computer readable medium further includes at least one instruction for causing the computer to transmit to the communication device a first portion of the content based on the first content request and the presentation area size.

In yet another aspect an apparatus is provided. The apparatus includes means for receiving a first content request from a second communication device having a presentation area size and located across a communications network. The apparatus further includes means for transmitting to the communication device a first portion of the content based on the first content request and the presentation area size.

The apparatus and methods described herein provide for a first communication device such as a cell phone to retrieve content across a communications network from a second communication device such as a server in a manner that provides a user of the first device with an enhanced user experience in terms of both downloading and viewing the content. The presentation of the content may be enhanced by reducing or eliminating the time the user may have to wait for the content to be retrieved and presented. In one aspect the presentation of the content may be enhanced by retrieving a first portion of the content in a foreground process with a size of the first portion based on a presentation area of a display of an output device or display of a retrieving communication device. As such in one aspect the size of the content initially retrieved from the downloading communication device is reduced thus reducing the time to present the content on the retrieving communication device.

Alternatively or in addition in another aspect the retrieving communication device may retrieve additional portions of the content in a background process for example at a time before the content is needed for presentation. In one aspect one or more additional portions of the content are retrieved in the background process while another portion of the content previously retrieved is being presented on the output device of the retrieving communication device. For example the one or more portions of the content retrieved in the background process may be selected based on how likely the content is to be requested by the user for presentation on the output device. By retrieving portions of the content in the background process the initially retrieved portions of the content sized for the display may be immediately available for presentation on the output device thereby reducing the wait time for the user.

Alternatively or in addition the retrieved content may comprise primary data items such as a list or menu of catalog items and supplemental data items such as additional information about the catalog items. Upon receiving a request for additional information the retrieving communication device may provide for switching the display from a primary data item view to a supplemental data item view. The primary data item view presents primary data items with one of the data items being a currently highlighted or selected primary data item. The supplemental data item view may present one or more supplemental data items associated with the currently highlighted or selected primary data item. In these aspects the portion of the content corresponding to the primary data item view is downloaded initially in a foreground process while the portion s corresponding to the supplemental data item view are downloaded in a background process. In one aspect for example the background process optimizes content retrieval by initially retrieving only the portion of the additional information corresponding to the portion of the items in the menu or list that is viewable on the display in the current view. Thus by conveniently optimizing content retrieval and providing additional information regarding the currently highlighted or selected primary data item the present apparatus and methods enhance the presentation of content.

Therefore the present apparatus and methods operate to enhance the presentation of content on a first communication device by retrieving a portion of the content from a second communication device based on the size of the presentation area of the first communication device. The presentation of content may be further enhanced by providing a convenient method of retrieving and viewing supplemental data items associated with primary data items.

Referring to one aspect of an enhanced presentation system comprises a first communication device such as a cell phone operable to retrieve content from a second communication device such as a server across a communications network . In one aspect the content may have a presentation size larger than a presentation area of the first communication device . For example communication device comprises an output device with a display having a presentation area size . Presentation area size may comprise a number of lines and a number of characters per line and or an area for example defined by a measure of a vertical height and a horizontal width. The communication device may further comprise a presentation manager having presentation manager logic executable to present the content on the display . The communication device may further comprise a retrieval module having retrieval logic executable to generate a first content request and a second content request . The first content request requests a first portion of content from the second communication device . The first portion of content may be sized for the presentation area size . By sizing the first portion of content by the presentation area size the first portion of content may be retrieved in less time than all the content . In other words the first portion of content corresponds to the part of the content that would be initially visible on display . Thus the time a user may have to wait for the first portion of content to be presented on the display may be less than the time it would have taken if the full amount of the content were retrieved prior to presenting the first portion of content .

Alternatively or in addition in another aspect the communication device is further operable to generate a second content request to retrieve a second portion of content from the second communication device in a background process. The second portion of content requested by the second content request has not yet been requested for presentation on the display for example based on a user input to change the view or to retrieve additional information. As such the second portion of content may be retrieved while the user consumes the first portion of content . By retrieving the content that is not yet requested for presentation on the display the present aspect may reduce the wait time experienced by a user when changing views or requesting additional information.

Referring to in one non limiting aspect for example the communication device retrieves portions of a catalog of games for sale from a retailer. The presentation area size is not large enough to present all the games in the catalog so in the present aspect the retrieval module generates a first content request requesting a first portion of content sized to fit the presentation area size . While waiting for first portion of content to be downloaded the communication device may present an indicator such as an hourglass etc. that the content is being retrieved. In this example the first portion of content retrieved from the second communication device is depicted as view with the display presenting GAME NAME 1 through GAME NAME 5 . By only retrieving the first portion of content based on the presentation area size the user of the communication device may not have to wait as long for the content to be presented when compared to retrieving the full catalog. Further retrieving the chunk of items associated with the first portion of content provides an enhanced user experience as opposed to waiting for all of the items or as opposed to performing a retrieval item by item. Depicted as view is the display after a page down or scroll down request is received from the user where the additional portion of the content e.g. GAME NAME 6 though GAME NAME 10 is presented on the display . Alternatively or in addition in one implementation the communication device may generate a second content request for retrieving content in a background process from the second communication device before the content is requested for presentation. In the example presented in some or all of the content presented in view may have been retrieved before being requested for presentation.

Further referring to in one non limiting aspect for example the content may be divided into primary data items and supplemental data items where each supplemental data item is associated with at least one primary data item and may provide additional information for the primary data item . Depicted as view the presentation manager logic presents a portion of a catalog of games for sale on the display . One of the games GAME NAME 3 is a currently highlighted or selected game . Upon receiving an additional information request from a user the presentation manager logic is executable to present one or more supplemental data items of the content associated with the currently highlighted or selected game . The presentation manager logic may be executable to present one view for each supplemental data item associated with the current game or multiple supplemental data items may be combined in a single view. For example the presentation logic may be executable to respond to a supplemental content request which may be a scroll left or scroll right key press from a user of the communication device . Further presentation logic may be executable to respond to an additional supplemental content request which may be a scroll left or scroll right key press from a user of the communication device from a secondary view. Depicted in views and are supplemental data items associated with the currently highlighted or selected game being presented on the display in the initial view . For example view is a textually based marketing message for the user to read. View may include a static graphic an animation and or a video preview of the video game for the user to review. Views and are additional supplemental information for the currently highlighted or selected game . As an example the supplemental information presented in views may make it more likely that the user purchase the current game and may provide value to the user experience by making it easier for the user to understand the currently highlighted or selected game . Upon receiving a return request the presentation manager logic is executable to return to the display to the initial view where the primary data items are being presented. The return request may be a key press by the user or may be a time out received from a system process of the communication device .

Thus system provides apparatus and methods for enhancing the presentation of the content by retrieving a first portion of content in the foreground process based on the presentation area and alternatively or in addition by retrieving additional portions of the content in the background process in cases where the additional portions of the content are not currently needed for presentation on the display . Therefore system adds value to the user experience in that the user may not have to wait as long for the presentation of the first portion of the content as compared to the case where the entirety of the content is retrieved prior to the presentation of the respective first portion. Additionally system may enhance the user experience by retrieving the additional portions of the content during presentation of the first portion of content. As such system retrieves the additional portion of the content before the additional portion of the content has been requested for presentation enabling the additional portions of the content to be available for presentation without the user having to wait for retrieval. Additionally the presentation of the content is further enhanced by providing a convenient method of viewing supplemental data item associated with primary data items e.g. by allowing a user to quickly glance at various views of supplemental information.

According to one aspect first communication device and second communication device may comprise any type of computerized communication device. For example as illustrated in first communication device may comprise a mobile communication device such as a wireless and or cellular telephone while second communication device may comprises a fixed communication device such as a network device a server a computer workstation etc. It should be understood that communication devices and or are not limited to the illustrated devices but may further include a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a two way text pager a portable computer having a wired or wireless communication portal and any type of computer platform having a wired and or wireless communications portal. Further second communication device can be a remote slave or other similar device such as remote sensors remote servers diagnostic tools data relays and the like which does not have an end user thereof but which simply communicates data across a wireless or wired network. In an alternate aspect first communication device and or second communication device may be a wired communication device such as a landline telephone personal computer set top box or the like. Additionally it should be noted that any combination of any number of first communication device and or second communication device may be utilized in system . Therefore the present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of wired or wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

Additionally referring to which for simplicity references first communication device first communication device and or second communication device may include an input device operable to generate or receive an input into the device and an output device operable to generate and or present information for consumption by the user of the device. For example input device may include at least one device such as a keypad and or keyboard a mouse a touch screen display a microphone in association with a voice recognition module etc. In one implementation input device may provide for user input of a request for content or for user input of a request for additional information. Further for example output device may include a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc. Output device may generate a graphical user interface a sound a feeling such as a vibration etc. and such outputs may be associated for example with the presentation of the content .

Further communication device may include a computer platform operable to execute applications to provide functionality to the device and which may further interact with input device and output device . Computer platform may include a memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory portions such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory and or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include active memory and storage memory including an electronic file system and any secondary and or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape soft and or hard disk and removable memory components.

Further computer platform may also include a processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. In one aspect such as when communication device comprises a cellular telephone processor or other logic such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident software components such as voice call data call and media related applications in memory . API may be a runtime environment executing on the respective communication device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices.

Additionally processor may include various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of communication device and the operability of the communication device on communications network . For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices as well as within and or among components of communication device . In one aspect such as in a cellular telephone processor may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher layer 1 layer 2 layer 3 main control remote procedure handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth system Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM universal subscriber identity module subscriber identity module voice services graphics USB universal serial bus multimedia such as MPEG Moving Picture Experts Group protocol multimedia GPRS General Packet Radio Service short message service SMS short voice service SVS web browser etc. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem components that interact with applications executing on computer platform .

Computer platform may further include a communications module which enables communications among the various components of communication device . The Computer platform is further operable to exchange the content and content requests between the communication device and communications network . Communications module may be embodied in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof and may further include all protocols for use in intra device and inter device communications. Further communications module is operable to transmit and or receive information such as first content request and first portion of content in accordance with one aspect of the apparatus and methods described herein.

Additionally referring to in one implementation memory may further store the content . The content may comprise primary data items and supplemental data items where each supplemental data item is associated with at least one primary data item . For example the primary data items could be a list of items from a catalog and supplemental data items could be supplemental information regarding the primary data items such as pictures of the catalog items audio clips video static graphics etc. In one aspect the content may be organized so that the primary data items are substantially smaller in size than the supplemental data items . For example the primary data items could be text of the names of video games with perhaps small graphic files for a logo and a supplemental data item associated with the primary data item may be a video file demonstrating the game or a screen shot of the video game. In another aspect the content may be an ordered set so that a content request may identify additional portions of the content relative to some currently highlighted or selected content previously retrieved. For example the content could be a catalog with a list of items such as video games and the video games could be ordered in a list beginning with the most popular and ending with the least popular. Further in some aspects the content may comprise a hierarchy having one or more levels of content where the levels of the hierarchy define primary data items and supplemental data items . Additionally for example the content may comprise text video graphics or animation and in general the content may be any data that may be stored on a communication device and transmitted to a communication device across a communications network .

Additionally referring to and in one aspect memory of communication device may further store retrieval module operable to retrieve the content across the communications network from the communication device in the background or foreground process. Retrieval module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to perform these functions. For example in one implementation retrieval module may comprise retrieval logic executable by the processor to generate a first content request and a second content request where the first content request and the second content request identify content on communication device . In general the retrieval logic may be executable to generate requests for the content located across the communications network . The retrieval logic may be further executable to transfer the first content request and the second content request to the communications module for transmission to the server or communication device . In one aspect the retrieval logic is further executable to receive the content requested from the server or communication device and store the retrieved content in memory .

In some aspects the retrieval logic may be further executable to request that a size of the content in the first content request be based on the presentation area size . For example with the content comprising primary data items and supplemental data items associated with the primary data items the first content request may comprise only the first set of content corresponding to the primary data items that may be presented in a single view on the display . The first content request may further comprise a request for those supplemental data items associated with the first set of content . In so defining the size of the requested content in the first content request the time to retrieve the content may be lessened when compared to other methodologies. In one implementation the first content request may request more primary data items than can be presented on the display such as all of the primary data items and only those supplemental data items corresponding to the primary data items presentable in the initial view on the display . In requesting primary data items that are not in the initial view on the display the time for a user to wait for an additional screen of initially non presented primary data items may be lessened. Additionally by requesting for example an entire level of a hierarchy of the content in the first content request the overhead costs of retrieving the content may be lessened.

Further in one aspect the retrieval logic may be further executable to retrieve the content identified in the first content request in a foreground process while retrieving additional portions of the content in one or more background processes. For example in another aspect the retrieval logic may be executable to generate the second content request for the additional portions of the content that are not currently viewable on the display and or that are not currently being requested for presentation. As noted above the content identified in the second content request e.g. the second portion of content may be retrieved in a background process. During this background process the communication device may be presenting the content identified in the first content request .

The retrieval logic may be further executable to transfer to the second communication device the presentation area size and to retrieve in either a foreground or background process portions of the content from the second communication device based on the transferred presentation area size . The retrieval logic may be further executable to transfer user input received from the input device to the second communication device and receive the content based on the transferred presentation area size and the transferred user input. For example the second communication device may transmit to the communication device the first portion of content sized by the presentation area size . Further the second communication device may then transmit the second portion of content based on receiving a scroll down request or an additional content request based on a received user scroll down from the communication device . As with the first portion of content the second portion of content may be sized by the presentation area size .

The retrieval logic may be further executable to retrieve the content not yet in view and or not yet requested for presentation based on a predetermined retrieval order . For example for a catalog of primary data items the retrieval logic may retrieve supplemental items associated with primary data items that are most likely to be purchased even though the primary data items have not yet been requested for presentation. In another aspect predetermined retrieval order may request that the download server transmit an ordered list of supplemental data items prioritized according to the number of requests for the respective supplemental data item. In other words a download priority can be established based on how often the respective data item is requested. The retrieval logic may be executable to retrieve the content in any order from the second communication device based on the predetermined retrieval order . According to one implementation parameters that may be utilized to determine an order of data items in a list can include item popularity item cost user preferences item rating a marketing or sales parameter corresponding to a placement value or a placement payment or an item profit margin etc. Further the retrieval logic may be further executable to retrieve the content based on whether the content has associated supplemental data items . For example the retrieval logic may retrieve an entire hierarchical level of the content if the level does not have associated supplemental data items .

The retrieval logic may be further executable to delete the content from the memory of the communication device based on a predetermined deletion order . Deletion of the content may be desired in order to free the limited resource of memory . The predetermined deletion order may be based on whether the content has been presented. The predetermined deletion order may be based on deleting the larger supplemental data items before the primary data items . The predetermined deletion order may be based on a strategy to lessen the probability that the content deleted from memory will be requested again for presentation and thus will have to be retrieved again from the second communication device .

Thus the retrieval logic is executable to retrieve the content from second communication device across the communications network store the content in memory and delete the content from memory in order to enhance the presentation of the content for the user.

Additionally referring to in one aspect memory of communication device may further store presentation manager module operable to present the content stored in memory . Presentation manager module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to perform these functions. For example in implementation presentation manager module may comprise presentation manager logic executable to present the content on the display of the communication device . In another aspect the content may be presented by using other modalities made available by the output device such as sound or vibrations. Thus the presentation manager logic is operable to retrieve the content from memory and present the content on the output device of the communication device .

Referring to in one implementation memory may further store user interface module operable to allow the device user to interface with presentation manager module and retrieval module and any other component of the communication device generating a user output and or requiring a user input. User interface module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to perform these functions. For example in another implementation user interface module may comprise user interface logic operable to interface between output device and presentation manager module in order to present outputs such as a graphical menu a sound the content etc. to the user of the respective device and in order to prompt the user to enter inputs such as a scroll request a present additional information request a select current item request etc.

Additionally referring to in one aspect memory of communication device may further comprise monitoring module operable to store actions of the communication device . Monitoring module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to perform these functions. For example in another aspect monitoring module may comprise monitoring logic operable to store the actions of the communication device in an action history . The actions of the communication device include data that tracks the use of hardware and software on the device received inputs from the user such as a scroll down request a scroll up request an item selection a request for additional information and in general any action occurring on the communication device may be recorded in the action history . The action history may be stored on the communication device in memory and the action history may be transmitted to another communication device across the communications network for analysis. Thus the monitor module provides the communication device with the ability to store information relating to a history of the actions occurring on the communication device .

Additionally referring to in one aspect memory of second communication device may further store download manager module operable to respond to requests for the content by transmitting the content across communications network to the requesting communication device . Download manager module may comprise one or any combination of hardware software firmware data and executable instructions operable to perform these functions. For example in another aspect download manager module may comprise download manager logic executable by the processor to receive first content request and second content request where the first content request and the second content request identify or correspond to portions of content on the communication device . In general the download manager logic may be executable to respond to requests for content by transmitting the content across a communications network to the communication device .

In one implementation the download manager logic may be further executable to receive from communication device the presentation area size and to transmit the content to the communication device based on the presentation area size and or based on user input received from the communication device . For example the download manager logic may transmit to the communication device a first portion of content sized based on the presentation area size . Thereafter the download manager logic may automatically send additional portions of the content such as second portion of content based on presentation area size and or based on some other factor such as the second portion of content being the supplemental data items corresponding to the first portion of content or being a portion of the content at the same hierarchical level as first portion of content but being outside of the initial view. For example in one aspect download manager logic may download a menu or list of a plurality of primary data items and then in the same download or in next respective communication download respective ones of the supplemental data items corresponding to the portion of the primary data items that are initially viewable on the display based on presentation area size . In another aspect the download manager logic may transmit second portion of content based on second content request such as based on a scroll request or an item selection or a glance request received by the communication device . Further the download manager logic may size the second portion of content by the presentation area size . Additionally as mentioned above download manager logic may send portions of the content based on some predetermined order of retrieval which may be defined by second communication device or first communication device or the user of either device.

In one implementation the content may comprise an ordered set of data items for example having a predetermined weighting factor . The order of the data items e.g. the predetermined weighting factor may be used by download manager logic to determine an order in which to download data items of requested content . Predetermined weighting factor may be based on a factor such as but not limited to a number of downloads a frequency of screen views a device user preference a content provider preference a pay for placement scheme a quality rating a profit margin a cost or any combination thereof. For example the first portion of content may comprise a menu of a plurality of games such as in where the order in which the games are listed may depend on the predetermined weighting factor . Additionally it should be noted that predetermined weighting factor may be applied to one or both of primary data items and secondary data items. In one aspect predetermined weighting factor may be based on aggregate user behavior which may be collected from monitoring module and forwarded to download manager module .

Thus the download manager logic is executable to transmit the content to a communication device based on received user input and or a received presentation area size and or a predetermined weighting factor .

Referring back to communications network may comprise any data and or voice communications network. For example communications network may comprise all or some portion of any one or any combination of a wired or wireless telephone network a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.xx network a packet data network a data network an Internet Protocol IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network a multicast network such as a Forward Link Only FLO network including the MediaFLOT System available from Qualcomm Incorporated of San Diego Calif. a digital video broadcasting DVB network such as DVB S for satellite DVB C for cable DVB T for terrestrial television DVB H for terrestrial television for handhelds and a land mobile radio network.

Further examples of telephone networks that may be included in one or more aspects of communications network include at least a portion of one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS advanced mobile phone service AMPS time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA global system for mobile communications GSM single carrier 1X radio transmission technology RTT evolution data only EV DO technology general packet radio service GPRS enhanced data GSM environment EDGE high speed packet access HSPA analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network or a combination thereof.

Referring to in operation one non limiting implementation of a method for enhanced presentation of the content on a communication device comprises obtaining a presentation area size for an output device of a communication device Block . For example in one non limiting aspect referring to communication device may obtain the presentation area size of the display .

The method may further include obtaining the first portion of content from a network device where the size of the content retrieved is based on the presentation area size Block . For example in one non limiting aspect referring to retrieval module may generate the first content request to request the first portion of content where the size of the first portion of content is based on the presentation area size . By basing the size of the first content request on the presentation area size the time to retrieve the first portion of content may be lessened.

Further the method includes storing the first portion of content in a memory on the communication device Block . For example first portion of content can be stored in memory of communication device .

The method may further include presenting a first view of the content from the first portion of content on the output device Block . For example in one non limiting aspect referring to presentation manager module may present on display the first set of content from the first portion of content retrieved from network device . For example the first set of content may comprise all or only a viewable portion of the primary data items from the first portion of content .

Optionally the method may further include obtaining the second portion of content in a background process where the second portion of content is not yet needed for presentation Block . For example in one non limiting aspect referring to retrieval module may generate the second content request for the second portion of content from the network device . The generation of the second content request and the retrieval of the second portion of content may be performed while the display is presenting the first set of content for the user.

Optionally the method may further include generating a supplemental data item view for at least one supplemental data item associated with the currently highlighted selected or currently viewable primary data item being presented on the output device Block . For example in one non limiting implementation referring to presentation manager module generates views and for supplemental data items associated with the primary data item e.g. GAME NAME 3 in the subject aspect.

Optionally the method may further include switching to a supplemental data item view upon receiving a present supplemental data item request Block . For example in one non limiting implementation referring to the presentation manager module may switch to view upon receiving a scroll right key press from the user.

Referring to in operation one non limiting case of a method for enhanced content transfer at a network device comprises receiving a first content request from a first communication device across a communications network Block . For example in one non limiting aspect referring to second communication device receives first content request from first communication device across communications network .

Further the method may include transmitting a first portion of content identified in the first content request Block . For example in one non limiting implementation referring to download manager module may transmit the first portion of content identified in first content request across the communications network to the communication device .

Optionally the method may include obtaining a presentation area size corresponding to the first communication device Block . For example in one non limiting aspect referring to first communication device may send the presentation area size across the communications network to the second communication device . The download manager module may receive the presentation area size . Alternatively once received second communication device may create a record in memory associating the first communication device with the received presentation area size where the record can be referenced in future requests.

Optionally the method may include a request for additional content based on an input received by the first communication device Block . For example in one non limiting aspect referring to download manager module may receive second content request from first communication device based on a scroll or change view input received by the first communication device .

Optionally the method may include transmitting additional content to the first communication device based on the second content request and the presentation area size Block . For example in one non limiting implementation referring to and the download manager module may transmit a portion of the content based on the second content request and based on the presentation area size which may be received with the request or which may be already stored in memory. For example referring to the additional portion of the content may be GAME NAME 6 through GAME NAME 10 for a received scroll down request and for a presentation area size of five lines of 12 characters. The download manager module may calculate the size of the content to transmit based on the presentation area size . For example the presentation area size may be the number of horizontal and vertical pixels for the display . In this example the download manager module may determine how many of the primary data items of the content may be presented on the display based on the number of pixels each primary data item requires to be presented.

Thus system enhances the presentation of the content on a communication device by retrieving the first portion of content from the second communication device based on the presentation area size of the communication device and alternatively or in addition the second portion of content can be retrieved in the background process before the second portion of content is requested for presentation. The presentation of content the may be further enhanced by providing a convenient method of viewing supplemental information associated with primary data items .

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as at least one or any combination or set of codes or instructions on a machine readable medium and or a computer readable medium which may comprise a computer program product.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or implementations it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or implementations as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or implementations may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or implementation may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or implementation unless stated otherwise.

