---

title: Smoothbore projectile
abstract: A projectile is provided for delivering a payload from a smoothbore launcher to a target. The projectile includes an aerodynamic stabilizer, an extender along which the stabilizer can longitudinally translate, and a chamber connected to the extender to contain the payload. The chamber can include a plastic bag for containing a liquid that represents the payload, and a plurality of holes that radially extend through its wall. The stabilizer enhances post-launch directional stability of the projectile by longitudinally translating rearward along the extender to shift center of pressure of the projectile aft of center of gravity of the projectile. The bag ruptures upon contact with the target, thereby disbursing the liquid through the holes. The bag can include malodorant or paint. The projectile can be contained within a gunpowder-loaded shotgun shell for launch.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07681503&OS=07681503&RS=07681503
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07681503
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071205
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 60 877 016 with a filing date of Dec. 7 2007 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to non lethal smoothbore projectiles. In particular this invention provides components and assembly of smoothbore projectiles for enhanced delivery of non lethal liquid substances to be dispersed or alternatively a solid round with improved accuracy and increased range.

Uniformed civil authorities e.g. law enforcement officials can be tasked with mob dispersal such as by riot control procedures and equipment including release of chemicals that produce sensory irritation and or temporary physical disablement known as riot control agents. United States military personnel are prohibited by the Chemical Weapons Convention ratified April 1997 from method of warfare use of such agents that include Oleoresin Capsicum OC and Lachrymator. As a consequence of prohibition on method of war usage the United States Armed Forces do not employ RCA substances as anti personnel weapons whether for crowd control interdiction arrest or other law enforcement uses.

OC popularly called pepper spray is biodegradable and can be obtained from cayenne s oily resin. Contact with OC particles induces irritation in skin eyes respiratory tract and mucus membranes rendered inert by proper ventilation and water flushing of the affected tissues. Carriers for OC aerosol delivery to spray against a target have included water isopropyl alcohol methylene chloride etc. Lachrymator can be used as tear gas that stimulates the corneal nerves in the eyes to induce tears pain and even temporary blindness. Commonly used chemicals used as lachrymators include bromoacetone benzylchloride thiophene xylyl bromide chlorine and bromine.

The burning and painful sensations associated with capsaicin result from its chemical interaction with sensory neurons. Capsaicin as a member of the vanilloid family binds to an ion channel type receptor that permits cations to pass through a cell membrane. In response the neuron depolarizes stimulating a signal to the brain thereby producing the same sensation that excessive heat or abrasive damage would cause. At standard conditions room temperature and pressure capsaicin is a solid. Hence aerosol delivery of capsaicin may involve nebulization of a capsaicin saline solution that includes diethyleneglycolmonoethylether DGME and ethanol as an aerosol vehicle.

Conventional delivery mechanisms of liquid splash rounds yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular the embodiments described below provide larger payload carrying capacity coupled with improved accuracy at greater ranges than available with conventional means.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a non penetrating splash round containing a liquid payload that is non lethal and accurate at ranges commensurate with current rules of engagement in narcotics interdiction and law enforcement. The delivery system contains the liquid integrally during storage and during delivery to the target where upon impact the liquid dispenses by disbursement . The splash round may be dispatched by a smoothbore launcher such as a 12 gauge shotgun.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a projectile for delivering a payload from a smoothbore launcher to a target. The projectile includes an aerodynamic stabilizer an extender along which the stabilizer can longitudinally translate and a chamber connected to the extender to contain the payload.

In various exemplary embodiments the chamber includes a plastic bag for containing a liquid that represents the payload and a plurality of holes that radially extend through its wall. The stabilizer enhances post launch directional stability of the projectile by longitudinally translating rearward along the extender to shift center of pressure of the projectile aft of center of gravity of the projectile. The bag ruptures upon contact with the target thereby disbursing the liquid through the holes. The bag can include malodorant paint or other desired liquid. The projectile can be contained within a gunpowder loaded shotgun shell for launch. In alternate embodiments the payload in the chamber can be solid rubber.

Various exemplary embodiments also provide a mount to rigidly attach the extender chamber to the extender for which the stabilizer slidably translates along said extender along with a governor to limit longitudinal translation of the stabilizer along the extender. The stabilizer can include a ring that slidably connects to said extender and a plurality of fins attached to said ring. The chamber can further include a weighted nose cap to shift the projectile s center of gravity forward.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Smoothbore Projectile Delivery of a riot control agent RCA to a target can be accomplished by launching a projectile that contains the RCA towards the target. The projectile is intended for propelled ejection from a medium to large caliber smoothbore barrel such as a shotgun or grenade launcher. For example a violent or threatening person s can be targeted by a projectile as described for various exemplary embodiments.

In various exemplary embodiments for a common shotgun the projectile contains a liquid or solid non lethal payload of five milliliters 5 ml for delivery as a splash round to a target to a distance range of 80 100 yards in an accurate and repeatable fashion for improved reliability. By contrast conventional paintball delivery systems deliver a payload accurately only to 20 or 30 yards with the payload of only one to two milliliters 1 2 ml . Thus the exemplary delivery system for common shotgun weapons delivers a factor of two to four more payload accurately out to three to five times greater distances. The smoothbore delivery system can also be utilized in any size shotgun bore e.g. 37 mm flaregun 40 mm grenade or any other smoothbore weapons.

The bag may be filled with a clear liquid such as shown in a clear polymer bag or alternatively a paint suspension such as shown in an opaque polymer bag . The cup containing the opaque bag is shown as a filled shell body . The cup may include small through holes through its cylindrical wall as well as an orifice see at the aft closure for reasons discussed subsequently. The bag may be composed of fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP resin called Teflon FEP from DuPont with a thickness of 0.004 inch 4 mil and a volumetric capacity of five milliliters. Upon impact with the target the sudden deceleration causes the bag to rupture releasing the liquid contained therein to be ejected through the through holes.

The projectile can be directionally stabilized by a multi fin tail that optionally may include a thin disk at its fore. The tail which can be molded from urethane includes an attach ring a distal portion or gap and a set of four rectangular fins in cruciform pattern extending from the attach ring . The fins are typically straight for fin stabilization but alternatively may optionally be twisted along an axial direction of the projectile to provide spin stabilization. Other geometries for fin arrangement cross section and planform may be used to represent a comparable aerodynamic stabilizer without departing from the scope of the claims.

A rear facing shaft extends longitudinally from the aft closure of the cup along the projectile s axis of symmetry and may be attached via the orifice therethrough. Connection of the shaft to the closure is described further herein and various attachment techniques can be considered without departing from the scope of the invention.

The ring can slide along the shaft . During storage and loading the ring may abut against the aft closure to reduce occupation volume and improve handling structural integrity. After launch of the projectile aerodynamic drag against the fins pushes the tail rearward along the shaft . An optional helical spring may provide supplemental force to translate the tail rearward along the shaft . Further alternate tail extension devices besides a shaft may be envisioned by artisans of ordinary skill including an integral tail extension device that longitudinally translates towards or away from the cup .

The fore end of the cup can be sealed with a weighted cap . The fins provide lateral aerodynamic stability for the projectile and rearward translation along the shaft shifts the projectile s center of pressure to be aft of the center of gravity or of gravity that can be designed towards the nose by the cap .

These components can be combined together as a delivery assembly . A scale comparison to a ruler illustrates generalized size of the projectile and its components for a shotgun sized projectile. Alternatively the cup and the shaft may be injection molded together in a single piece out of hard polymer. shows a perspective view of the exploded components of the projectile including the cap and spring as respectively separate from the cup and shaft . shows a perspective of the assembly together with the disk as labeled.

The cap may be composed for example of epoxy cement loaded with tungsten powder to plug the nose of the cup . The cap of a 12 gauge shell may contain for example five grams 5 g tungsten powder with two grams 2 g epoxy. By weighting the cap and extending the tail the projectile s center of gravity may be positioned forward of the center of pressure thereby fin stabilizing the projectile in flight. Alternate compositions for weighting the forward tip of the projectile may also be considered without departing from the invention s scope.

The cup may include through holes that penetrate through its cylindrical wall. Exemplary dimensions of the cup for launch from a 12 gauge shotgun shell may include exterior cylinder wall diameter of 0.725 inch an exterior length of 1.625 inch and an interior diameter of 0.650 inch. The closure may have a thickness of 0.375 inch with an extension rim of 0.125 inch to the cup s end as a spacer to the tail .

The tail includes the proximal ring having a through hole the aft distal gap and the cruciform fins mounted to the ring . The tail may preferably be composed of polyurethane and or a light metal and the ring and fins may be composed of a unitary item. The tail s through hole aligns coaxially with the threaded orifice in the cup . Exemplary dimensions of the tail for launch from a 12 gauge shotgun shell may include radial extension of the fin to 0.750 inch and a length of 0.750 inch.

The shaft may be mounted to a threaded plug at its proximal end and terminates with a knob at its distal end for inhibiting the ring from detaching from the shaft . Thus the plug represents a rigid mounting mechanism whereas the knob represents a governor to limit the tail s axial motion. The shaft and or plug may be preferably composed of a light metal such as titanium and aluminum or alternatively a strong light plastic. A thin disk may optionally be attached to the fins fore end with a foam spacer to confine the gunpowder and thereby improve combustion. The spring may be disposed between the plug and the knob to extend the tail rearward after launch.

Exemplary dimensions of the shaft exposed portion for launch from a 12 gauge shotgun shell may include shaft diameter of 0.150 inch and an axial length of 0.50 inch. Similarly the knob may have an axial length of 0.25 inch and have total radial extension of 0.19 inch. The total length of the plug shaft and knob may be 1.00 inch. The disk may have a diameter of 0.72 inch and a thickness of 0.003 inch with a 0.193 inch center hole and be composed of a common material such as paper.

Alternatively the tail and the shaft may form an integral unitary stabilizer that translates rearward from the cup after launch. An example design includes the shaft having a rim lip that extends into the cup . The rim lip possesses a larger diameter than the threaded orifice to prevent ejection from the closure as the integral shaft and tail translate rearward after launch.

The liquid payload contained within the bag may include approximately five milliliters 5 ml of liquid payload. Subsequent to inserting the bag into the cup two grams 2 g of epoxy mixed with five grams 5 g of tungsten powder may be subsequently poured into the remaining space in the cup in order to seal in the payload. Flexane 80 urethane putty represents a preferred epoxy that can be mixed with diluents to adjust the durometer hardness of the final cured material.

The components for the projectile may be combined as the assembly by a connecting the shaft to the plug b sliding the tail along the shaft and securing it by the knob c tapping the closure of the cup as a threaded orifice to receive the plug and providing holes along the cup s cylindrical sides d inserting the bag into the cup e sealing the bag with the cap . The shaft may be designed to enable sufficient longitudinal travel of the tail to provide fin stabilization. Upon assembly the projectile may be inserted into the shell for ejection from a smoothbore launcher towards an intended target.

The assembly may be loaded into a primed 3 inch shotgun shell containing 12 grains of Red Dot smokeless gunpowder from Alliant in Radford Va. The powder may be disposed above a primer both opposite the opening at the bottom . The projectile is secured in the shell with contact cement by coating the cup s exterior cylindrical wall immediately loading the assembly into the shell and allowing the cement to cure before firing. Crimping of the shell is not preferred. The shell s interior may preferably be sealed to increase combustion pressure from gunpowder burning by the cement that reduces annular gas leakage between the cup and the shell and around the tail .

Liquid Payload The liquid to be delivered in the bag may be composed of materials for use in counter narcotics interdiction and to provide short term disabling effects for crowd dispersal or checkpoint control. Under selective police operations capsaicin and or other OC equipped payloads may be considered. Military restrictions on RCA materials encourage development of alternative non lethal agent such as a malodorant to produce an identifiably pungent response of the olfactory senses.

Tagging the target by a marker represents an alternative technique of non lethal operation against hostile persons in contrast to dispensing a substance to stimulate a reaction by the target. In particular the liquid contained in the clear bag may include a dye or alternatively may provide an opaque emulsion such as paint as in the bag .

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

