---

title: Biosynthetic gene cluster for leptomycins
abstract: Polypeptides and domains of leptomycin polyketide synthase and the nucleic acids encoding them are provided. Methods to prepare leptomycin, leptomycin analogs, and leptomycin derivatives are described, as are methods to prepare other polyketides using the nucleic acids encoding leptomycin polyketide synthase domains or modifying enzymes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07851190&OS=07851190&RS=07851190
owner: Kosan Biosciences, Inc.
number: 07851190
owner_city: Princeton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070824
---
This application is a divisional of allowed application Ser. No. 10 937 730 filed 8 Sep. 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 288 396 which claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. provisional applications No. 60 502 423 filed 11 Sep. 2003 and No. 60 553 384 filed 15 Mar. 2004 the entire contents of each prior application being incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. 1 R43 CA108372 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to materials and methods for biosynthesis of leptomycins leptomycin derivatives and analogs and other useful polyketides. The invention finds application in the fields of molecular biology recombinant DNA technology chemistry human and veterinary medicine and agriculture.

Polyketides are complex natural products that are produced by microorganisms such as fungi and mycelial bacteria. There are about 10 000 known polyketides from which numerous pharmaceutical products in many therapeutic areas have been derived including adriamycin epothilone erythromycin mevacor rapamycin tacrolimus tetracycline rapamycin and many others. However polyketides are made in very small amounts in microorganisms and are difficult to make or modify chemically. For this and other reasons biosynthetic methods are preferred for production of therapeutically active polyketides. See PCT publication Nos. WO 93 13663 WO 95 08548 WO 96 40968 WO 97 02358 and WO 98 27203 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 874 748 5 063 155 5 098 837 5 149 639 5 672 491 5 712 146 and 6 410 301 Fu et al. 1994 33 9321 26 McDaniel et al. 1993 262 1546 1550 Kao et al. 1994 265 509 12 and Rohr 1995 34 881 88 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The biosynthesis of polyketides may be accomplished by heterologous expression of Type I or modular polyketide synthase enzymes PKSs . Type I PKSs are large multifunctional protein complexes the protein components of which are encoded by multiple open reading frames ORF of PKS gene clusters. Each ORF of a Type I PKS gene cluster can encode one two or more modules of ketosynthase activity. Each module activates and incorporates a two carbon ketide unit into the polyketide backbone. Each module also contains multiple ketide modifying enzymatic activities or domains. The number and order of modules and the types of ketide modifying domains within each module determine the structure of the resulting product. Polyketide synthesis may also involve the activity of nonribosomal peptide synthetases NRPSs to catalyze incorporation of an amino acid derived building block into the polyketide as well as post synthesis modification or tailoring enzymes. The modification enzymes modify the polyketide by oxidation or reduction addition of carbohydrate groups or methyl groups or other modifications.

In PKS polypeptides the regions that encode enzymatic activities domains are separated by linker regions. These regions collectively can be considered to define boundaries of the various domains. Generally this organization permits PKS domains of different or identical substrate specificities to be substituted usually at the level of encoding DNA from other PKSs by various available methodologies. Using this method new polyketide synthases which produce novel polyketides can be produced. It will be recognized from the foregoing that genetic manipulation of PKS genes and heterologous expression of PKSs can be used for the efficient production of known polyketides and for production of novel polyketides structurally related to but distinct from known polyketides see references above and Hutchinson 1998 1 319 29 Carreras and Santi 1998 9 403 11 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 712 146 and 5 672 491 each of which is incorporated herein by reference .

One valuable class of polyketides includes the leptomycins and their analogs . These compounds are selective inhibitors of protein export from the cell nucleus and thus affect the cellular location of proteins. The function of many key proteins and transcription factors involved in cell growth can be regulated by their cellular location. For instance the tumor suppressor p53 normally resides in the cell nucleus where its activation promotes cell cycle arrest and apoptotic cell death. Mislocation of p53 into the cytoplasm especially its dominant negative mutant forms is associated with development of many types of cancer. Nuclear factor B NF B is a transcriptional activator that targets genes involved in cell proliferation and apoptosis. It is constitutively activated in certain cancer cells aiding tumor resistance to radiation and cancer chemotherapy drugs. NF B resides in the cytoplasm in an inactive form complexed with the inhibitor of nuclear factor I B upon stimulation by factors such as TNF or CD 40 ligand events are set in place that remove I B and allow importation of NF B into the cell nucleus.

Leptomycin B LMB also known as CI 940 or elactocin and the ratjadones are the only known low molecular weight inhibitor of nuclear transport. Because of the structural similarities the kazusamycins leptofuranins and callystatins are also implicated. Callystatins come from a marine sponge whereas all the other compounds are bacterial metabolites. All of these molecules are exceptionally potent typically displaying ICvalues in the 100 picomolar to 10 nanomolar range.

Protein export from the cell nucleus requires a nuclear export signal NES as a domain in the exported protein CRMI exportin 1 to recognize the NES and Ran a Ras like GTPase. In the nucleus CRMI forms a complex with the NES protein and Ran GTP then the complex is translocated through the nuclear pore complex into the cytoplasm. There the Ran GTPase activating protein RanGAP found only in the cytoplasm promotes hydrolysis of Ran GTP to Ran GDP causing release of the NES protein.

The high potency and novel mechanism of action prompted an investigation of the antitumor activity of LMB in mouse murine and xenograph cancer models. Activity was observed at low doses against adriamycin amsacrine and mitoxantrone resistant P388 leukemia other leukemias B16 melanoma Ridgway osteogenic and M5076 sarcomas and mammary adenocarinoma. Acute toxicity appeared to be gastrointestinal and was exacerbated upon more frequent or oral administration of the drug. The maximum tolerated dose MTD in mice ranged from 0.12 to 1 mg kg as a function of dosing schedule.

LMB has also attracted considerable interest as a biochemical tool to study the role and regulation of nucleo cytoplasmic shuttling proteins and for its potential therapeutic use in combination with other drugs. Vigneri and Wang Induction of apoptosis in chronic myelogenous leukemia cells through nuclear entrapment of BCR ABL tyrosine kinase 2001 7 228 234 describes combined treatment of cultured CML cells with STI 571 and LMB. STI 571 effectively masks the ability of Bcr AbI to be retained preferentially in the cytoplasm upon nuclear importation of the drug inactivated protein LMB inhibits nuclear export of Bcr AbI and withdrawal of STI 571 releases the ability of the constitutively activated AbI component to induce apoptosis. While the effect of either drug alone is fully reversible STI 571 does not permanently inhibit Bcr AbI and nuclear export is restored by synthesis of fresh CRM1 their combined use caused irreversible and complete killing of the Bcr Abl transformed cells. Such treatment also preferentially eliminated mouse bone marrow cells that express Bcr Abl. This strategy can overcome the main limitation of acute CML treatment with STI 571 which is acquired drug resistance due to mutation or overexpression of Bcr AbI.

LMB has other types of potential therapeutic uses. Because it can promote nuclear retention of the p53 tumor suppressor protein treatment with LMB can lead to p53 activation in the nucleus which results in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Combined use LMB and actinomycin D can reactivate p53 and prevent its degradation by HPV E6 protein in cervical carcinoma cells infected with human papillomavirus. LMB can also potentiate the effect of rapamycin an emerging cancer drug by blocking nuclear export of mTOR the protein kinase target of rapamycin that controls the activity of two transcription factors. The antiviral activity of LMB has been elucidated as resulting from inhibition of the nuclear export of the HIV 1 Rev protein and Rev dependent unspliced and partially spliced mRNA which is an early step in viral replication. LMB interferes with cyclinB1 Cdc2 cyclinD1 CDK4 and TGF beta dependent signaling also suggesting possible uses against cancers with aberrant signaling involving these actors. A synthetic HIV 1 Rev inhibitor PKF050 638 has been developed that mimics the activity of LMB.

Two limitations have to be overcome to increase the potential for development of LMB into an effective anticancer or antiviral drug. One a reliable source of pure drug must be developed because The use of LMB . . . has been hampered by the variability of the quality of LMB production lots D. Daelemans et al. 2002 A synthetic HIV 1 Rev inhibitor interfering with the CRM1 mediated nuclear export 99 14440 5 . This is not surprising given the close structural similarity of leptomycin like compounds isolated from their natural sources . In fact at least 5 different forms of leptomycins have been detected in the culture extracts of the ATCC 39366 strain and 6 forms in another LMB producer. Two a less toxic form of LMB would be more appealing for drug development studies. Even though the drug s effects have been reported to be fully reversible toxicity is likely to be mechanism related and exhibited in different bodily tissues given the widespread role of CRM1 mediated protein export. The available SAR data are insufficient for designing a less toxic analog. Analog production and evaluation will require both chemical and microbiological approaches because little effort towards the total synthesis of LMB has been reported.

The following data suggest that analogs with an acceptable therapeutic index could be found. LMB displayed an approx. 250 fold difference in activity between a Rev dependent assay and cytotoxicity to the same cells in vitro and PKF050 638 had a 75 fold difference in the same two assays . These data show that LMB itself can have a good therapeutic window in certain instances. It is thus likely that less toxic LMB analogs can be discovered as a consequence of differential binding to CRMI or pharmacokinetic behavior that modulates their distribution half life or metabolism.

Given the promise of leptomycin B in the treatment of conditions and diseases characterized by undesired cellular hyperproliferation there thus exists an unmet need for a production system that can provide large quantities of leptomycin B in a form substantially free of minor congeners and other impurities. The present invention meets this need by providing the biosynthetic genes responsible for the production of leptomycins and providing for their expression in heterologous hosts. Further there is an unmet need for analogs of leptomycins potentially useful in the treatment of viral diseases. The present invention meets this need by providing the means for biological generation of leptomycin analogs through genetic engineering of the biosynthetic genes.

The present invention provides recombinant nucleic acids encoding polyketide synthases and polyketide modification enzymes. The recombinant nucleic acids of the invention are useful in the production of polyketides including but not limited to leptomycin and leptomycin analogs and derivatives in recombinant host cells.

In one aspect the invention provides the nucleic acids involved in leptomycin biosynthesis in isolated purified recombinant or synthetic form including but not limited to sequences incorporated into a vector or into the chromosome of a host cell. The biosynthesis of leptomycin is performed by a modular PKS and polyketide modification enzymes. The leptomycin polyketide synthase herein also leptomycin PKS or leptomycin synthase is made up of several proteins each having one or more modules. The modules have domains with specific synthetic functions.

In another aspect the present invention provides domains and modules of the leptomycin PKS and corresponding nucleic acid sequences encoding them and or parts thereof. Such compounds are useful in the production of hybrid PKS enzymes and the recombinant genes that encode them.

In another aspect the present invention provides modifying genes of leptomycin biosynthetic gene cluster in recombinant form including but not limited to isolated form and incorporated into a vector or the chromosomal DNA of a host cell. Such compounds are useful in the production of leptomycins leptomycin analogs and leptomycin derivatives according to the methods of the invention.

In another aspect the invention provides a recombinant PKS wherein at least 10 15 20 or more consecutive amino acids in one or more domains of one or more modules thereof are derived from one or more domains of one or more modules of leptomycin polyketide synthase. Preferably at least an entire domain of a module of leptomycin synthase is included. Representative leptomycin PKS domains useful in this aspect of the invention include for example KR DH ER AT ACP and KS domains. In one embodiment of the invention the PKS is assembled from polypeptides encoded by DNA molecules that comprise coding sequences for PKS domains wherein at least one encoded domain corresponds to a domain of leptomycin PKS. In such DNA molecules the coding sequences are operably linked to control sequences so that expression therefrom in host cells is effective. In this manner leptomycin PKS coding sequences or modules and or domains can be made to encode PKS to biosynthesize compounds having antibiotic or other useful bioactivity other than leptomycin.

In one embodiment the invention provides a recombinant DNA molecule that comprises a sequence encoding a chimeric polyketide synthase composed of at least a portion of the leptomycin PKS and at least a portion of a second PKS for a polyketide other than leptomycin. Such chimeric genes are useful in the production of leptomycin analogs leptomycin derivatives and other polyketides.

In another aspect the present invention provides recombinant host cells that contain the nucleic acids of the invention. In one embodiment the host cell provided by the invention is a host cell that produces a leptomycin modification enzyme and or a domain module or protein of the leptomycin PKS. Methods for the genetic manipulation of are described in Kieser et al Practical Genetics The John Innes Foundation Norwich 2000 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In other embodiments the host cells provided by the invention are eubacterial cells such as yeast cells such as or myxobacterial cells such as

In another embodiment the invention provides a recombinant host cell that produces leptomycin in its native state wherein at least one domain encoding region of the endogenous leptomycin PKS gene is deleted inactivated or replaced. Also provided is a recombinant host cell that produces leptomycin in its native state wherein at least one polypeptide encoding open reading frame of the leptomycin PKS gene cluster is deleted or otherwise inactivated.

In another aspect the invention also provides methods for producing leptomycins leptomycin analogs and derivatives and other polyketides using the nucleic acids proteins vectors and host cells of the invention.

These and other aspects of the present invention are described in more detail in the Detailed Description of the Invention below.

The following references provide background on the leptomycins and are hereby incorporated by reference 

The present invention provides recombinant materials for the production of polyketides. In one aspect the invention provides recombinant nucleic acids encoding at least one domain of a polyketide synthase required for leptomycin biosynthesis. Methods and host cells for using these genes to produce a polyketide in recombinant host cells are also provided.

The nucleotide sequences encoding leptomycin PKS domains modules and polypeptides of the present invention were isolated from sp. ATCC 39366 as described in Example 1. Alternatively the DNA sequences provided herein may be obtained through gene synthesis as described in U.S. Patent Application 20040166567 which is incorporated herein by reference. Given the valuable properties of leptomycin and its derivatives and analogs means to produce useful quantities of these molecules in a highly pure form is of great potential value. The compounds produced may be used as antitumor agents or for other therapeutic uses and or a intermediates for further enzymatic or chemical modification and or as agents for in vitro inhibition of protein phosphatase. The nucleotide sequences of the leptomycin biosynthetic gene cluster encoding domains modules and polypeptides of leptomycin synthase and modifying enzymes and other polypeptides can be used for example to make both known and novel polyketides.

In one aspect of the invention purified and isolated DNA molecules are provided that comprise one or more coding sequences for one or more domains or modules of leptomycin synthase. Examples of such encoded domains include leptomycin synthase KR DH ER AT ACP and KS domains. In one aspect the invention provides DNA molecules in which sequences encoding one or more polypeptides of leptomycin synthase are operably linked to expression control sequences that are effective in suitable host cells to produce leptomycin its analogs or derivatives or novel polyketides.

The sequence of the leptomycin gene cluster was assembled from sequences deduced from the cosmids pKOS279 128.PF27 pKOS279 128.2L78 and pKOS279 130.PFA42. The gene cluster is found to comprise six open reading frames ORFs named lepA lepB lepC lepD lepE and lepF. The polyketide synthase is encoded by lepABCD and is comprised of eleven modules terminating in a thioesterase domain. The lepA gene encodes modules 0 4 where module 0 is the loading module the lepB gene encodes modules 5 8 lepC encodes modules 9 10 and lepD encodes module 11 and the terminating thioesterase domain. The lepE gene encodes a cytochrome P450 type oxidase presumably responsible for oxidation of the C24 methyl group. The lepF gene appears to be a regulatory gene.

Tables 1 and 2 provide a description of genes in the leptomycin PKS gene cluster including sequences encoding encoding modules domains and ORFs as deduced from two contigs assembled from sequences of pKOS279 125.2L78. The nucleotide sequences of the two contigs are provided in the attached Sequence Listing and have been assigned SEQ ID NOS 1 and 2 respectively.

As indicated in Table 1 the nucleic acid having SEQ ID NO 1 was found to encode portions of two ORFs. ORF1 SEQ ID NO 6 comprises nucleotides 29467 of the SEQ ID NO 1. The end of ORF2 LepB lies downstream of the end of SEQ ID NO 1. The nucleic acid sequence encodes a polypeptide comprising the complete modules 5 and 6 and a portion of module 7 the beginning of KS7 of leptomycin synthase. The modules encoded by the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO 1 are indicated in Table 1.

Table 2 provides the ORF module and domain descriptions for the second contig the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO 2. One partial ORF has been identified encoding a polypeptide comprising a portion of module 7 part of AT7 and all of DH7 ER7 KR7 and ACP7 and all of module 8 of leptomycin synthase. The modules encoded by the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO 2 and domains within each module are indicated in Table 2.

Subsequent sequencing provided the complete sequence of the leptomycin biosynthetic gene cluster given below as SEQ ID NO 3. The PKS modules encoded by the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO 3 and domains within each module are indicated in Table 3. The ORFs encoding the PKS have been designated LepA LepB LepC and LepD. LepA comprises a loading module referred to as module 0 which comprises a ketosynthase domain wherein there is a glutamine in place of the expected active site cysteine KSq and thus likely funcations as a decarboxylase. LepD comprises module 11 together with a thioesterase TE domain.

The LepE gene corresponding to nucleotides 64703 65881 of SEQ ID NO 3 encodes a cytochrome P450 type oxidase. The LepF gene corresponding to nucleotides 66124 66564 of SEQ ID NO 3 encodes a putative tetR family transcriptional regulator.

In another aspect of the invention the polypeptides encoded by the above described leptomycin PKS genes are provided as LepA SEQ ID NO 4 LepB SEQ ID NO 5 LepC SEQ ID NO 6 LepD SEQ ID NO 7 LepE SEQ ID NO 8 and LepF SEQ ID NO 9 . These polypeptides may be in isolated purified or recombinant form either singly or present in any combination comprising each other or other polyketide synthase polypeptides.

In one aspect the invention provides an isolated or recombinant DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes at least one domain alternatively at least one module alternatively at least one polypeptide involved in the biosynthesis of a leptomycin.

In one aspect the invention provides an isolated or recombinant DNA molecule comprising a sequence identical or substantially similar to at least one of SEQ ID NOS 1 2 and 3 or their complement. Hereinafter each reference to a nucleic acid sequence is also intended to refer to and include the complementary sequence unless otherwise stated or apparent from context. In an embodiment the subsequence comprises a sequence encoding a complete leptomycin PKS domain module or polypeptide.

In one aspect the present invention provides an isolated or recombinant DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes an open reading frame module or domain having an amino acid sequence identical or substantially similar to an ORF module or domain encoded by SEQ ID NOS 1 2 or 3. Generally a polypeptide module or domain having a sequence substantially similar to a reference sequence has substantially the same activity as the reference protein module or domain e.g. when integrated into an appropriate PKS framework using methods known in the art . In certain embodiments one or more activities of a substantially similar polypeptide module or domain are modified or inactivated as described below.

In one aspect the invention provides an isolated or recombinant DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes at least one polypeptide module or domain encoded by SEQ ID NOs 1 2 or 3 e.g. a polypeptide module or domain involved in the biosynthesis of a leptomycin wherein said nucleotide sequence comprises at least 10 20 25 30 35 40 45 or 50 contiguous base pairs identical to a sequence of SEQ ID NOS 1 2 or 3. In one aspect the invention provides an isolated or recombinant DNA molecule comprising a nucleotide sequence that encodes at least one polypeptide module or domain encoded by SEQ ID NOS 1 2 or 3 e.g. a polypeptide module or domain involved in the biosynthesis of a leptomycin wherein said polypeptide module or domain comprises at least 10 15 20 30 or 40 contiguous residues of a corresponding polypeptide module or domain.

It will be understood that SEQ ID NOS 1 2 and 3 were determined using the insert of various cosmids. Accordingly the invention provides an isolated or recombinant DNA molecule comprising a sequence identical or substantially similar to a ORF encoding sequence of the insert of one or more of these cosmids.

Those of skill will recognize that due to the degeneracy of the genetic code a large number of DNA sequences encode the amino acid sequences of the domains modules and proteins of the leptomycin PKS the enzymes involved in leptomycin modification and other polypeptides encoded by the genes of the leptomycin biosynthetic gene cluster. The present invention contemplates all such DNAs. For example it may be advantageous to optimize sequence to account for the codon preference of a host organism. The invention also contemplates naturally occurring genes encoding the leptomycin PKS that are polymorphic or other variants.

As used herein the terms substantial identity substantial sequence identity or substantial similarity in the context of nucleic acids refers to a measure of sequence similarity between two polynucleotides. Substantial sequence identity can be determined by hybridization under stringent conditions by direct comparison or other means. For example two polynucleotides can be identified as having substantial sequence identity if they are capable of specifically hybridizing to each other under stringent hybridization conditions. Other degrees of sequence identity e.g. less than substantial can be characterized by hybridization under different conditions of stringency. Stringent hybridization conditions refers to conditions in a range from about 5 C. to about 20 C. or 25 C. below the melting temperature Tm of the target sequence and a probe with exact or nearly exact complementarity to the target. As used herein the melting temperature is the temperature at which a population of double stranded nucleic acid molecules becomes half dissociated into single strands. Methods for calculating the Tm of nucleic acids are well known in the art see e.g. Berger and Kimmel 1987 Methods In Enzymology Vol. 152 Guide To Molecular Cloning Techniques San Diego Academic Press Inc. and Sambrook et al. 1989 Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 2nd Ed. Vols. 1 3 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory . Typically stringent hybridization conditions for probes greater than 50 nucleotides are salt concentrations less than about 1.0 M sodium ion typically about 0.01 to 1.0 M sodium ion at pH 7.0 to 8.3 and temperatures at least about 50 C. preferably at least about 60 C. As noted stringent conditions may also be achieved with the addition of destabilizing agents such as formamide in which case lower temperatures may be employed. Exemplary conditions include hybridization at 7 sodium dodecyl sulfate SDS 0.5 M NaPOpH 7.0 1 mM EDTA at 65 C. wash with 2 SSC 1 SDS at 50 C.

Alternatively substantial sequence identity can be described as a percentage identity between two nucleotide or amino acid sequences. Two nucleic acid sequences are considered substantially identical when they are at least about 70 identical or at least about 80 identical or at least about 90 identical or at least about 95 or 98 identical. Two amino acid sequences are considered substantially identical when they are at least about 60 sequence identical more often at least about 70 at least about 80 or at least about 90 sequence identity to the reference sequence. Percentage sequence nucleotide or amino acid identity is typically calculated using art known means to determine the optimal alignment between two sequences and comparing the two sequences. Optimal alignment of sequences may be conducted using the local homology algorithm of Smith and Waterman 1981 2 482 by the homology alignment algorithm of Needleman and Wunsch 1970 48 443 by the search for similarity method of Pearson and Lipman 1988 85 2444 by the BLAST algorithm of Altschul 1990 215 403 410 and Shpaer 1996 38 179 191 or by the Needleham et al. 1970 48 443 453 and Sankoff et al. 1983 Chapter One Addison Wesley Reading Mass. generally by computerized implementations of these algorithms GAP BESTFIT FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group 575 Science Dr. Madison Wis. BLAST from the National Center for Biotechnology Information at the World Wide Web ncbi.nlm.nih.gov . In each case default parameters are used for example the BLAST program uses as defaults a wordlength W of 11 the BLOSUM62 scoring matrix see Henikoff 1992 89 10915 10919 alignments B of 50 expectation E of 10 M 5 N 4 and a comparison of both strands .

The invention methods may be directed to the preparation of an individual polyketide. The polyketide may or may not be novel but the method of preparation permits a more convenient or alternative method of preparing it. The resulting polyketides may be further modified to convert them to other useful compounds. Examples of chemical structures of that can be made using the materials and methods of the present invention include known analogs such as those described in Kalesse Christmann 2002 The Chemistry and Biology of the Leptomycin Family 8 981 1003 incorporated herein by reference and the references cited therein and novel molecules produced by modified or chimeric PKSs comprising a portion of the leptomycin PKS sequence molecules produced by the action of polyketide modifying enzymes from the leptomycin PKS cluster on products of other PKSs molecules produced by the action on products of the leptomycin PKS of polyketide modifying enzymes from other PKSs and the like.

As noted in one aspect the invention provides recombinant PKS wherein at least 10 15 20 or more consecutive amino acids in one or more domains of one or more modules thereof are derived from one or more domains of one or more modules of leptomycin polyketide synthase. A polyketide synthase derived from a naturally occurring PKS contains the scaffolding encoded by all the portion employed of the naturally occurring synthase gene contains at least two modules that are functional and contains mutations deletions or replacements of one or more of the activities of these functional modules so that the nature of the resulting polyketide is altered. This definition applies both at the protein and genetic levels. Particular embodiments include those wherein a KS AT KR DH or ER has been deleted or replaced by a version of the activity from a different PKS or from another location within the same PKS and derivatives where at least one noncondensation cycle enzymatic activity KR DH or ER has been deleted or wherein any of these activities has been added or mutated so as to change the ultimate polyketide synthesized. There are at least five degrees of freedom for constructing a polyketide synthase in terms of the polyketide that will be produced. See U.S. Pat. No. 6 509 455 for a discussion.

As can be appreciated by those skilled in the art polyketide biosynthesis can be manipulated to make a product other than the product of a naturally occurring PKS biosynthetic cluster. For example AT domains can be altered or replaced to change specificity. The variable domains within a module can be deleted and or inactivated or replaced with other variable domains found in other modules of the same PKS or from another PKS. See e.g. Katz McDaniel 19 543 558 1999 and WO 98 49315. Similarly entire modules can be deleted and or replaced with other modules from the same PKS or another PKS. See e.g. Gokhale et al. Science 284 482 1999 and WO 00 47724 each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Protein subunits of different PKSs also can be mixed and matched to make compounds having the desired backbone and modifications. For example subunits of 1 and 2 encoding modules 1 4 of the pikromycin PKS were combined with the DEBS3 subunit to make a hybrid PKS product see Tang et al. Science 287 640 2001 WO 00 26349 and WO 99 6159 .

Mutations can be introduced into PKS genes such that polypeptides with altered activity are encoded. Polypeptides with altered activity include those in which one or more domains are inactivated or deleted or in which a mutation changes the substrate specificity of a domain as well as other alterations in activity. Mutations can be made to the native sequences using conventional techniques. The substrates for mutation can be an entire cluster of genes or only one or two of them the substrate for mutation may also be portions of one or more of these genes. Techniques for mutation include preparing synthetic oligonucleotides including the mutations and inserting the mutated sequence into the gene encoding a PKS subunit using restriction endonuclease digestion. See e.g. Kunkel T. A. 1985 82 448 Geisselsoder et al. 1987 5 786. Alternatively the mutations can be effected using a mismatched primer generally 10 20 nucleotides in length that hybridizes to the native nucleotide sequence generally cDNA corresponding to the RNA sequence at a temperature below the melting temperature of the mismatched duplex. The primer can be made specific by keeping primer length and base composition within relatively narrow limits and by keeping the mutant base centrally located. See Zoller and Smith 1983 100 468 . Primer extension is effected using DNA polymerase. The product of the extension reaction is cloned and those clones containing the mutated DNA are selected. Selection can be accomplished using the mutant primer as a hybridization probe. The technique is also applicable for generating multiple point mutations. See e.g. Dalbie McFarland et al. 1982 79 6409 . PCR mutagenesis can also be used for effecting the desired mutations. Random mutagenesis of selected portions of the nucleotide sequences encoding enzymatic activities can be accomplished by several different techniques known in the art e.g. by inserting an oligonucleotide linker randomly into a plasmid 

In addition to providing mutated forms of regions encoding enzymatic activity regions encoding corresponding activities from different PKS synthases or from different locations in the same PKS synthase can be recovered for example using PCR techniques with appropriate primers. By corresponding activity encoding regions is meant those regions encoding the same general type of activity e.g. a ketoreductase activity in one location of a gene cluster would correspond to a ketoreductase encoding activity in another location in the gene cluster or in a different gene cluster similarly a complete reductase cycle could be considered corresponding e.g. KR DH ER could correspond to KR alone.

If replacement of a particular target region in a host polyketide synthase is to be made this replacement can be conducted in vitro using suitable restriction enzymes or can be effected in vivo using recombinant techniques involving homologous sequences framing the replacement gene. One such system involving plasmids of differing temperature sensitivities is described in PCT application WO 96 40968. Another useful method for modifying a PKS gene e.g. making domain substitutions or swaps is a RED ET cloning procedure developed for constructing domain swaps or modifications in an expression plasmid without first introducing restriction sites. The method is related to ET cloning methods see Datansko Wanner 2000 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 97 6640 45 Muyrers et al 2000 Genetic Engineering 22 77 98 . The RED ET cloning procedure is used to introduce a unique restriction site in the recipient plasmid at the location of the targeted domain. This restriction site is used to subsequently linearize the recipient plasmid in a subsequent ET cloning step to introduce the modification. This linearization step is necessary in the absence of a selectable marker which cannot be used for domain substitutions. An advantage of using this method for PKS engineering is that restriction sites do not have to be introduced in the recipient plasmid in order to construct the swap which makes it faster and more powerful because boundary junctions can be altered more easily.

In a further aspect the invention provides methods for expressing chimeric or hybrid PKSs and products of such PKSs. For example the invention provides 1 encoding DNA for a chimeric PKS that is substantially patterned on a non leptomycin producing enzyme but which includes one or more functional domains modules or polypeptides of leptomycin PKS and 2 encoding DNA for a chimeric PKS that is substantially patterned on the leptomycin PKS but which includes one or more functional domains modules or polypeptides of another PKS or NRPS.

With respect to item 1 above in one embodiment the invention provides chimeric PKS enzymes in which the genes for a non leptomycin PKS function as accepting genes and one or more of the above identified coding sequences for leptomycin domains or modules are inserted as replacements for one or more domains or modules of comparable function. Construction of chimeric molecules is most effectively achieved by construction of appropriate encoding polynucleotides. In making a chimeric molecule it is not necessary to replace an entire domain or module accepting of the PKS with an entire domain or module of leptomycin PKS subsequences of a PKS domain or module that correspond to a peptide subsequence in an accepting domain or module or which otherwise provide useful function may be used as replacements. Accordingly appropriate encoding DNAs for construction of such chimeric PKS include those that encode at least 10 15 20 or more amino acids of a selected leptomycin domain or module.

Recombinant methods for manipulating modular PKS genes to make chimeric PKS enzymes are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 672 491 5 843 718 5 830 750 and 5 712 146 and in PCT publication Nos. 98 49315 and 97 02358. A number of genetic engineering strategies have been used with DEBS to demonstrate that the structures of polyketides can be manipulated to produce novel natural products primarily analogs of the erythromycins see the patent publications referenced supra and Hutchinson 1998 1 319 329 and Baltz 1998 6 76 83 . In one embodiment the components of the chimeric PKS are arranged onto polypeptides having interpolypeptide linkers that direct the assembly of the polypeptides into the functional PKS protein such that it is not required that the PKS have the same arrangement of modules in the polypeptides as observed in natural PKSs. Suitable interpolypeptide linkers to join polypeptides and intrapolypeptide linkers to join modules within a polypeptide are described in PCT publication WO 00 47724.

A partial list of sources of PKS sequences for use in making chimeric molecules for illustration and not limitation includes Avermectin U.S. Pat. No. 5 252 474 MacNeil et al. 1993 Industrial Microorganisms Basic and Applied Molecular Genetics Baltz Hegeman Skatrud eds. ASM pp. 245 256 MacNeil et al. 1992 Gene 115 119 25 Candicidin FRO008 Hu et al. 1994 14 163 72 Epothilone U.S. Pat. No. 6 303 342 Erythromycin WO 93 13663 U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 513 Donadio et al. 1991 252 675 79 Cortes et al. 1990 348 176 8 FK 506 Motamedi et al. 1998 256 528 34 Motamedi et al. 1997 244 74 80 FK 520 U.S. Pat. No. 6 503 737 see also Nielsen et al. 1991 30 5789 96 Lovastatin U.S. Pat. No. 5 744 350 Nemadectin MacNeil et al. 1993 supra Niddamycin Kakavas et al. 1997 179 7515 22 Oleandomycin Swan et al. 1994 242 358 62 U.S. Pat. No. 6 388 099 Olano et al. 1998 259 299 308 Platenolide EP Pat. App. 791 656 Rapamycin Schwecke et al. 1995 92 7839 43 Aparicio et al. 1996 169 9 16 Rifamycin August et al. 1998 5 69 79 Soraphen U.S. Pat. No. 5 716 849 Schupp et al. 1995 177 3673 79 Spiramycin U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 837 Tylosin EP 0 791 655 Kuhstoss et al. 1996 Gene 183 231 36 U.S. Pat. No. 5 876 991 . Additional suitable PKS coding sequences remain to be discovered and characterized but will be available to those of skill e.g. by reference to GenBank .

The leptomycin PKS encoding polynucleotides of the invention may also be used in the production of libraries of PKSs i.e. modified and chimeric PKSs comprising at least a portion of the leptomycin PKS sequence. The invention provides libraries of polyketides by generating modifications in or using a portion of the leptomycin PKS so that the protein complexes produced by the cluster have altered activities in one or more respects and thus produce polyketides other than the natural leptomycin product of the PKS. Novel polyketides may thus be prepared or polyketides in general prepared more readily using this method. By providing a large number of different genes or gene clusters derived from a naturally occurring PKS gene cluster each of which has been modified in a different way from the native PKS cluster an effectively combinatorial library of polyketides can be produced as a result of the multiple variations in these activities. Expression vectors containing nucleotide sequences encoding a variety of PKS systems for the production of different polyketides can be transformed into the appropriate host cells to construct a polyketide library. In one approach a mixture of such vectors is transformed into the selected host cells and the resulting cells plated into individual colonies and selected for successful transformants. Each individual colony has the ability to produce a particular PKS synthase and ultimately a particular polyketide. A variety of strategies can be devised to obtain a multiplicity of colonies each containing a PKS gene cluster derived from the naturally occurring host gene cluster so that each colony in the library produces a different PKS and ultimately a different polyketide. The number of different polyketides that are produced by the library is typically at least four more typically at least ten and preferably at least 20 more preferably at least 50 reflecting similar numbers of different altered PKS gene clusters and PKS gene products. The number of members in the library is arbitrarily chosen however the degrees of freedom outlined above with respect to the variation of starter extender units stereochemistry oxidation state and chain length is quite large. The polyketide producing colonies can be identified and isolated using known techniques and the produced polyketides further characterized. The polyketides produced by these colonies can be used collectively in a panel to represent a library or may be assessed individually for activity. See for example 

Colonies in the library are induced to produce the relevant synthases and thus to produce the relevant polyketides to obtain a library of candidate polyketides. The polyketides secreted into the media can be screened for binding to desired targets such as receptors signaling proteins and the like. The supernatants per se can be used for screening or partial or complete purification of the polyketides can first be effected. Typically such screening methods involve detecting the binding of each member of the library to receptor or other target ligand. Binding can be detected either directly or through a competition assay. Means to screen such libraries for binding are well known in the art. Alternatively individual polyketide members of the library can be tested against a desired target. In this event screens wherein the biological response of the target is measured can be included.

As noted above the DNA compounds of the invention can be expressed in host cells for production of proteins and of known and novel compounds. Preferred hosts include fungal systems such as yeast and procaryotic hosts but single cell cultures of for example mammalian cells could also be used. A variety of methods for heterologous expression of PKS genes and host cells suitable for expression of these genes and production of polyketides are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 843 718 and 5 830 750 WO 01 31035 WO 01 27306 and WO 02 068613 and U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 087 451 published as US2002000087451 60 355 211 and 60 396 513 corresponding to published application 20020045220 .

Appropriate host cells for the expression of the hybrid PKS genes include those organisms capable of producing the needed precursors such as malonyl CoA methylmalonyl CoA ethylmalonyl CoA and methoxymalonyl ACP and having phosphopantotheinylation systems capable of activating the ACP domains of modular PKSs. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 579 695. However as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 033 883 a wide variety of hosts can be used even though some hosts natively do not contain the appropriate post translational mechanisms to activate the acyl carrier proteins of the synthases. Also see WO 97 13845 and WO 98 27203. The host cell may natively produce none some or all of the required polyketide precursors and may be genetically engineered so as to produce the required polyketide precursors. Such hosts can be modified with the appropriate recombinant enzymes to effect these modifications. Suitable host cells include yeast and other procaryotic hosts that use control sequences compatible with spp. Examples of suitable hosts that either natively produce modular polyketides or have been engineered so as to produce modular polyketides include but are not limited to actinomyctes such as and eubacteria such as myxobacteria such as and yeasts such as

In one embodiment any native modular PKS genes in the host cell have been deleted to produce a clean host as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 672 491 incorporated herein by reference. In a variant of this embodiment a host cell that produces leptomycin a leptomycin analog or a leptomycin derivative in its native state e.g. sp. ATCC 39366 is engineered so as to delete or inactivate at least one domain in the leptomycin PKS gene cluster so as to produce a host cell that no longer produces leptomycin a leptomycin analog or a leptomycin derivative. Such a host cell can subsequently be transformed with a gene comprising an active variant of the deleted or inactivated domain thus restoring polyketide production by complementation. When the active variant of the deleted or inactivated domain is derived from a second PKS gene cluster that produces a polyketide other than leptomycin such complementation results in the production of a leptomycin analog or derivative. In one embodiment one or more complete genes ORFs of the native leptomycin synthase are deleted from or inactivated in the host cell which is subsequently complemented by transformation with engineered forms of the deleted or inactivated genes ORFs . Methods for performing such complementation experiments are known in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 505 737 which is incorporated herein by reference.

In some embodiments the host cell expresses or is engineered to express a polyketide tailoring or modifying enzyme. Once a PKS product is released it is subject to post PKS tailoring reactions. These reactions are important for biological activity and for the diversity seen among polyketides. Tailoring enzymes normally associated with polyketide biosynthesis include oxygenases glycosyl and methyl transferases acyltransferases halogenases cyclases aminotransferases and hydroxylases. In addition to biosynthetic accessory activities secondary metabolite clusters often code for activities such as transport. In the case of leptomycin biosynthesis tailoring enzymes are expected to include at least one P450 hydroxylase for oxidation of the C24 methyl group to a carboxylic acid. Tailoring enzymes may also be involved in the introduction of the cis alkene at C8 C9.

Tailoring enzymes for modification of a product of the leptomycin PKS a non leptomycin PKS or a chimeric PKS can be those normally associated with leptomycin biosynthesis or heterologous tailoring enzymes. Tailoring enzymes can be expressed in the organism in which they are naturally produced or as recombinant proteins in heterologous hosts. In some cases the structure produced by the heterologous or hybrid PKS may be modified with different efficiencies by post PKS tailoring enzymes from different sources. In such cases post PKS tailoring enzymes can be recruited from other pathways to obtain the desired compound. For example the tailoring enzymes of the leptomycin PKS gene cluster can be expressed heterologously to modify polyketides produced by non leptomycin synthases or can be inactivated in the Leptomycin producer.

Alternatively the unmodified polyketide compounds can be produced in the recombinant host cell and the desired modification e.g. oxidation steps carried out in vitro e.g. using purified enzymes isolated from native sources or recombinantly produced or in vivo in a converting cell different from the host cell e.g. by supplying the converting cell with the unmodified polyketide .

It will be apparent to the reader that a variety of recombinant vectors can be utilized in the practice of aspects of the invention. As used herein vector refers to polynucleotide elements that are used to introduce recombinant nucleic acid into cells for either expression or replication. Selection and use of such vehicles is routine in the art. An expression vector includes vectors capable of expressing DNAs that are operatively linked with regulatory sequences such as promoter regions. Thus an expression vector refers to a recombinant DNA or RNA construct such as a plasmid a phage recombinant virus or other vector that upon introduction into an appropriate host cell results in expression of the cloned DNA. Appropriate expression vectors are well known to those of skill in the art and include those that are replicable in eukaryotic cells and or prokaryotic cells and those that remain episomal or those which integrate into the host cell genome.

The vectors used to perform the various operations to replace the enzymatic activity in the host PKS genes or to support mutations in these regions of the host PKS genes may be chosen to contain control sequences operably linked to the resulting coding sequences in a manner that expression of the coding sequences may be effected in an appropriate host. Suitable control sequences include those that function in eucaryotic and procaryotic host cells. If the cloning vectors employed to obtain PKS genes encoding derived PKS lack control sequences for expression operably linked to the encoding nucleotide sequences the nucleotide sequences are inserted into appropriate expression vectors. This can be done individually or using a pool of isolated encoding nucleotide sequences which can be inserted into host vectors the resulting vectors transformed or transfected into host cells and the resulting cells plated out into individual colonies.

Suitable control sequences for single cell cultures of various types of organisms are well known in the art. Control systems for expression in yeast are widely available and are routinely used. Control elements include promoters optionally containing operator sequences and other elements depending on the nature of the host such as ribosome binding sites. Particularly useful promoters for procaryotic hosts include those from PKS gene clusters that result in the production of polyketides as secondary metabolites including those from Type I or aromatic Type II PKS gene clusters. Examples are act promoters tcm promoters spiramycin promoters and the like. However other bacterial promoters such as those derived from sugar metabolizing enzymes such as galactose lactose lac and maltose are also useful. Additional examples include promoters derived from biosynthetic enzymes such as for tryptophan trp the lactamase bla bacteriophage lambda PL and T5. In addition synthetic promoters such as the tac promoter U.S. Pat. No. 4 551 433 can be used.

As noted particularly useful control sequences are those which themselves or with suitable regulatory systems activate expression during transition from growth to stationary phase in the vegetative mycelium. The system contained in the plasmid identified as pCK7 i.e. the actI actIII promoter pair and the actII ORF4 an activator gene is particularly preferred. Particularly preferred hosts are those which lack their own means for producing polyketides so that a cleaner result is obtained. Illustrative control sequences vectors and host cells of these types include the modified CH999 and vectors described in PCT publication WO 96 40968 and similar strains of . See U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 672 491 5 830 750 5 843 718 and 6 177 262 each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Other regulatory sequences may also be desirable which allow for regulation of expression of the PKS sequences relative to the growth of the host cell. Regulatory sequences are known to those of skill in the art and examples include those which cause the expression of a gene to be turned on or off in response to a chemical or physical stimulus including the presence of a regulatory compound. Other types of regulatory elements may also be present in the vector for example enhancer sequences.

Selectable markers can also be included in the recombinant expression vectors. A variety of markers are known which are useful in selecting for transformed cell lines and generally comprise a gene whose expression confers a selectable phenotype on transformed cells when the cells are grown in an appropriate selective medium. Such markers include for example genes which confer antibiotic resistance or sensitivity to the plasmid. Alternatively several polyketides are naturally colored and this characteristic provides a built in marker for screening cells successfully transformed by the present constructs.

The various PKS nucleotide sequences or a mixture of such sequences can be cloned into one or more recombinant vectors as individual cassettes with separate control elements or under the control of a single promoter. The PKS subunits or components can include flanking restriction sites to allow for the easy deletion and insertion of other PKS subunits so that hybrid or chimeric PKSs can be generated. The design of such restriction sites is known to those of skill in the art and can be accomplished using the techniques described above such as site directed mutagenesis and PCR. Methods for introducing the recombinant vectors of the present invention into suitable hosts are known to those of skill in the art and typically include the use of CaClor other agents such as divalent cations lipofection DMSO protoplast transformation conjugation and electroporation.

Thus the present invention provides recombinant DNA molecules and vectors comprising those recombinant DNA molecules that encode at least a portion of the leptomycin PKS and that when transformed into a host cell and the host cell is cultured under conditions that lead to the expression of said leptomycin PKS enzymes results in the production of polyketides including but not limited to leptomycin and or analogs or derivatives thereof in useful quantities. The present invention also provides recombinant host cells comprising those recombinant vectors.

Suitable culture conditions for production of polyketides using the cells of the invention will vary according to the host cell and the nature of the polyketide being produced but will be know to those of skill in the art. See for example the examples below and WO 98 27203 Production of Polyketides in Bacteria and Yeast and WO 01 83803 Overproduction Hosts For Biosynthesis of Polyketides. 

The polyketide product produced by host cells of the invention can be recovered i.e. separated from the producing cells and at least partially purified using routine techniques e.g. extraction from broth followed by chromatography .

The compositions cells and methods of the invention may be directed to the preparation of an individual polyketide or a number of polyketides. The polyketide may or may not be novel but the method of preparation permits a more convenient or alternative method of preparing it. It will be understood that the resulting polyketides may be further modified to convert them to other useful compounds. For example an ester linkage may be added to produce a pharmaceutically acceptable ester i.e. an ester that hydrolyzes under physiologically relevant conditions to produce a compound or a salt thereof . Illustrative examples of suitable ester groups include but are not limited to formates acetates propionates butyrates succinates and ethylsuccinates.

The polyketide product can be modified by addition of a protecting group for example to produce prodrug forms. A variety of protecting groups are disclosed for example in T. H. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Third Edition John Wiley Sons New York 1999 . Prodrugs are in general functional derivatives of the compounds that are readily convertible in vivo into the required compound. Conventional procedures for the selection and preparation of suitable prodrug derivatives are described for example in Design of Prodrugs H. Bundgaard ed. Elsevier 1985.

Similarly improvements in water solubility of a polyketide compound can be achieved by addition of groups containing solubilizing functionalities to the compound or by removal of hydrophobic groups from the compound so as to decrease the lipophilicity of the compound. Typical groups containing solubilizing functionalities include but are not limited to 2 dimethylaminoethyl amino piperidinyl N alkylpiperidinyl hexahydropyranyl furfuryl tetrahydrofurfuryl pyrrolidinyl N alkylpyrrolidinyl piperazinylamino N alkylpiperazinyl morpholinyl N alkylaziridinylmethyl 1 azabicyclo 1.3.0 hex 1 yl ethyl 2 N methylpyrrolidin 2 yl ethyl 2 4 imidazolyl ethyl 2 1 methyl 4 imidazolyl ethyl 2 1 methyl 5 imidazolyl ethyl 2 4 pyridyl ethyl and 3 4 morpholino 1 propyl.

In addition to post synthesis chemical or biosynthetic modifications various polyketide forms or compositions can be produced including but not limited to mixtures of polyketides enantiomers diastereomers geometrical isomers polymorphic crystalline forms and solvates and combinations and mixtures thereof can be produced

Many other modifications of polyketides produced according to the invention will be apparent to those of skill and can be accomplished using techniques of pharmaceutical chemistry.

Prior to use the PKS product whether modified or not can be formulated for storage stability or administration. For example the polyketide products can be formulated as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds include acid addition salts which may for example be formed by mixing a solution of the compound with a solution of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid fumaric acid maleic acid succinic acid benzoic acid acetic acid citric acid tartaric acid phosphoric acid carbonic acid or the like. Where the compounds carry one or more acidic moieties pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be formed by treatment of a solution of the compound with a solution of a pharmaceutically acceptable base such as lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide tetraalkylammonium hydroxide lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate ammonia alkylamines or the like.

Prior to administration to a mammal the PKS product will be formulated as a pharmaceutical composition according to methods well known in the art e.g. combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a medium that is used to prepare a desired dosage form of a compound. A pharmaceutically acceptable carrier can include one or more solvents diluents or other liquid vehicles dispersion or suspension aids surface active agents isotonic agents thickening or emulsifying agents preservatives solid binders lubricants and the like. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Fifteenth Edition E. W. Martin Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1975 and Handbook of Pharmaceutical Excipients Third Edition A. H. Kibbe ed. American Pharmaceutical Assoc. 2000 disclose various carriers used in formulating pharmaceutical compositions and known techniques for the preparation thereof.

The composition may be administered in any suitable form such as solid semisolid or liquid form. See Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms and Drug Delivery Systems 5edition Lippicott Williams Wilkins 1991 . In an embodiment for illustration and not limitation the polyketide is combined in admixture with an organic or inorganic carrier or excipient suitable for external enteral or parenteral application. The active ingredient may be compounded for example with the usual non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for tablets pellets capsules suppositories pessaries solutions emulsions suspensions and any other form suitable for use. The carriers that can be used include water glucose lactose gum acacia gelatin mannitol starch paste magnesium trisilicate talc corn starch keratin colloidal silica potato starch urea and other carriers suitable for use in manufacturing preparations in solid semi solid or liquified form. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening and coloring agents and perfumes may be used.

For genomic DNA extraction a spore stock of sp ATCC 39366 obtained from the American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. was inoculated into 35 ml of liquid R5 medium three days and grown in 30 C. A 10 ml portion of the cell suspension was centrifuged 5 000 g. The pellet was suspended into 3.5 ml of buffer I Tris 50 mM pH7.5 20 mM EDTA 150 g ml RNase Sigma Aldrich and 1 mg ml of lysozyme Sigma . After incubation of the mixture at 37 C. for about 30 min the salt concentration was adjusted by adding 850 l of 5 M NaCl solution then the mixture was extracted two times with phenol chloroform isoamyl alcohol 25 24 1 vol vol with gentle agitation followed by centrifugation for 10 min at 12 000 g. The genomic DNA in the supernatant was precipitated with 1 vol of isopropanol and redissolved in 800 l of water.

Approximately 10 g of genomic DNA was partially digested with Sau3A1 a series digestions with different dilutions of the enzyme and the digested DNAs were run on an agarose gel with DNA standards. One of the conditions used was found to have generated fragments of size 30 45 kb. The DNA from this digestion was ligated with pSuperCos 1 Stratagene pre linearized with BamHI and XbaI and the ligation mixture was packaged using a Gigapack XIII Stragene in vitro packaging Kit and the mixture was subsequently used for infection of DH5 employing protocols supplied by the manufacturer.

To find the gene cluster for leptomycin biosynthesis cosmids from 475 transductants resulted from the above ligation mixture were sequenced using convergent primersT7cos 5 CATAATACGACTCACTATAGGG SEQ ID NO 10 and T3cos 1 5 TTCCCCGAAAAGTGCCAC SEQ ID NO 11 . After BLAST analysis the sequences revealed that 4 cosmids carried DNA inserts with both ends encoding type I PKS polyketide synthetase genes. Restriction analysis of these four cosmids with BamHI showed 3 cosmids having overlapping inserts the fourth cosmid pKOS279 125.2L78 was distinct. Cosmid pKOS279 125.2L78 and pKOS279 125.3L71 from the 3 overlapping cosmids were sequenced. The incomplete sequences of pKOS279 125.2L78 revealed 6 complete modules and three incomplete modules.

From the 475 cosmids sequenced also it was found that 16 cosmids carry inserts with PKS genes at one of their ends. While the above cosmids were under sequenced DNA fragments encoding PKS genes from these 16 cosmids were pulled out by PCR and labeled with DIG digoxigenin Roche . The DIG labeled PCR products were used to screen about 2000 transductants resulting from the ligation mixture of SuperCos 1 and partially digested genomic DNA from the leptomycin producer. The in situ hybridization revealed up 89 positive transductants and the cosmids in these clones were verified to contain PKS inserts by sequencing using T7cos and T3cos 1 primers SEQ ID NO 57 and 58 respectively .

After DNA sequences of pKOS279 125.2L78 were available these end sequences were analyzed using BLAST. DNA Blast revealed 3 interesting cosmids pKOS279 128.PF26 pKOS279 128.PF27 and pKOS279 128.PF48. These 3 cosmids all have inserts extending to cover upstream of KR1ACP1 and reaching non PKS genes see .

All publications and patent documents cited herein are incorporated herein by reference as if each such publication or document was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by reference.

Although the present invention has been described in detail with reference to specific embodiments those of skill in the art will recognize that modifications and improvements are within the scope and spirit of the invention. Citation of publications and patent documents is not intended as an admission that any such document is pertinent prior art nor does it constitute any admission as to the contents or date of the same. The invention having now been described by way of written description those of skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced in a variety of embodiments and that the foregoing description are for purposes of illustration and not limitation of the following claims.

