---

title: Preferred customer marketing delivery based on dynamic data for a customer
abstract: A computer implemented method, apparatus, and computer usable program product for automatically determining a marketing status for a customer. In one embodiment, detection data is received from a set of detectors associated with the retail facility. The detection data is processed to form dynamic data. The dynamic data is analyzed using a set of data models to identify marketing initiation factors. In response to the marketing initiation factors indicating initiation of marketing to the customer, a customized marketing message is generated for the customer and dynamically transmitted to a display device associated with the customer. The customized marketing message is displayed to the customer in real-time as the customer is shopping at the retail facility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09092808&OS=09092808&RS=09092808
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09092808
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070927
---
This application is a continuation in part of patent application U.S. Ser. No. 11 695 983 filed Apr. 3 2007 titled Method and Apparatus for Providing Customized Digital Media Marketing Content Directly to a Customer which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is also related to the following applications entitled application Ser. No. 11 744 024 filed May 3 2007 application Ser. No. 11 769 409 file Jun. 24 2007 application Ser. No. 11 756 198 filed May 31 2007 application Ser. No. 11 771 252 filed Jun. 29 2007 Robyn Schwartz Publication No. US 2006 0032915 A1 filed Aug. 12 2004 Robyn R. Levine Publication No. US 2002 0111852 filed Jan. 16 2001 all assigned to a common assignee and all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is related generally to an improved data processing system and in particular to a method and apparatus for processing digital video data. More particularly the present invention is directed to a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program product for determining whether to deliver marketing content to a particular customer based on dynamic customer data elements for the particular customer.

In the past merchants frequently had a personal relationship with their customers. The merchant often knew their customers names address marital status ages of their children hobbies place of employment character anniversaries birthdays likes dislikes and personal preferences. The merchant was able to use this information to cater to customer needs and push sales of items the customer might be likely to purchase based on the customer s personal situation. The merchant was also able to determine whether a customer was a good customer that should receive special marketing efforts a credit risk or bad customer that should not receive special marketing offers or a customer that posed a risk or threat to the store or other customers based on the merchant s personal knowledge of the customer s character reputation and criminal history.

However with the continued growth of large cities the corresponding disappearance of small rural towns and the increasing number of large impersonal chain stores with multiple employees the merchants and employees of retail businesses rarely recognize regular customers and almost never know the customer s name or any other details regarding their customer s personal preferences that might assist the merchant or employee in marketing efforts directed toward a particular customer.

One solution to this problem is directed toward using data mining techniques to gather customer profile data. The customer profile data is used to generate marketing strategies for marketing products to customers. Customer profile data typically includes information provided by the customer in response to a questionnaire or survey such as the name address telephone number and gender of customers as well as products preferred by the customer. Demographic data regarding a customer s age sex income career interests hobbies and consumer preferences may also be included in customer profile data.

However these methods only provide limited and generalized marketing strategies that are directed towards a fairly large segment of the population without taking into account actual customer reactions to product placement in a particular retail store or to other environmental factors that may influence product purchases by customers.

In an attempt to better monitor customers in large retail stores these stores frequently utilize cameras and other audio and or video monitoring devices to record customers inside the retail store or in the parking lot. A store detective may watch one or more monitors displaying closed circuit images of customers in various areas inside the store to identify shoplifters. However these solutions require a human user to review the audio and video recordings. In addition the video and audio recordings are typically used only for store security.

Thus current solutions do not utilize all of the potential dynamic customer data elements that may be available for identifying customers that should be marketed to and customers that should not receive marketing content. The data elements currently being utilized to generate marketing strategies only provide approximately seventy five percent 75 of the needed customer data.

The illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer usable program product for automatically determining a marketing status for a customer. The process receives data from a set of detectors associated with a retail facility to form detection data for the customer. The detection data is gathered in real time as the customer is shopping at the retail facility. The process processes the detection data to form dynamic data for the customer. The process analyzes the dynamic data to identify a set of marketing initiation factors. The marketing initiation factors indicating a degree of receptivity of the customer to marketing messages. In response to the set of marketing initiation factors indicate initiation of marketing to the customer the process generates a customized marketing message for the customer. The process dynamically transmits the customized marketing message to a display device associated with the customer. The customized marketing message is displayed to the customer in real time as the customer is shopping at the retail facility.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to exemplary diagrams of data processing environments are provided in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. It should be appreciated that are only exemplary and are not intended to assert or imply any limitation with regard to the environments in which different embodiments may be implemented. Many modifications to the depicted environments may be made.

With reference now to the figures depicts a pictorial representation of a network of data processing systems in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Network data processing system is a network of computers in which embodiments may be implemented. Network data processing system contains network which is the medium used to provide communications links between various devices and computers connected together within network data processing system . Network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables.

In the depicted example server and server connect to network along with storage area network SAN . Storage area network is a network connecting one or more data storage devices to one or more servers such as servers and . A data storage device may include but is not limited to tape libraries disk array controllers tape drives flash memory a hard disk and or any other type of storage device for storing data. Storage area network allows a computing device such as client to connect to a remote data storage device over a network for block level input output.

In addition clients and connect to network . These clients and may be for example personal computers or network computers. In the depicted example server provides data such as boot files operating system images and applications to clients and . Clients and are clients to server in this example.

Digital customer marketing environment is a retail environment that is connected to network . A customer may view select order and or purchase one or more items in digital customer marketing environment . Digital customer marketing environment may include one or more facilities buildings or other structures for wholly or partially containing items.

The items in digital customer marketing environment may include but are not limited to consumables comestibles clothing shoes toys cleaning products household items machines any type of manufactured items entertainment and or educational materials as well as entrance or admittance to attend or receive an entertainment or educational activity or event. Items for purchase could also include services such as without limitation dry cleaning services food delivery services automobile repair services vehicle detailing services personal grooming services such as manicures and haircuts cooking demonstrations or any other services.

Comestibles include solid liquid and or semi solid food and beverage items. Comestibles may be but are not limited to meat products dairy products fruits vegetables bread pasta pre prepared or ready to eat items as well as unprepared or uncooked food and or beverage items. For example a comestible includes without limitation a box of cereal a steak tea bags a cup of tea that is ready to drink popcorn pizza candy or any other edible food or beverage items.

An entertainment or educational activity event or service may include but is not limited to a sporting event a music concert a seminar a convention a movie a ride a game a theatrical performance and or any other performance show or spectacle for entertainment or education of customers. For example entertainment or educational activity or event could include without limitation the purchase of seating at a football game purchase of a ride on a roller coaster purchase of a manicure or purchase of admission to view a film.

Digital customer marketing environment may also includes a parking facility for parking cars trucks motorcycles bicycles or other vehicles for conveying customers to and from digital customer marketing environment . A parking facility may include an open air parking lot an underground parking garage an above ground parking garage an automated parking garage and or any other area designated for parking customer vehicles.

For example digital customer marketing environment may be but is not limited to a grocery store a retail store a department store an indoor mall an outdoor mall a combination of indoor and outdoor retail areas a farmer s market a convention center a sports arena or stadium an airport a bus depot a train station a marina a hotel fair grounds an amusement park a water park and or a zoo.

Digital customer marketing environment encompasses a range or area in which marketing messages may be transmitted to a digital display device for presentation to a customer within digital customer marketing environment. Digital multimedia management software is used to manage and or enable generation management transmission and or display of marketing messages within digital customer marketing environment. Examples of digital multimedia management software include but are not limited to Scala digital media digital signage software EK3 digital media digital signage software and or Allure digital media software.

In the depicted example network data processing system is the Internet with network representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial governmental educational and other computer systems that route data and messages. Of course network data processing system also may be implemented as a number of different types of networks such as without limitation an intranet an Ethernet a local area network LAN and or a wide area network WAN .

Network data processing system may also include additional data storage devices in addition to or instead of storage area network such as without limitation one or more hard disks compact disks CD compact disk rewritable CD RW flash memory compact disk read only memory CD ROM non volatile random access memory NV RAM and or any other type of storage device for storing data.

In another embodiment digital customer marketing environment includes one or more servers located on site at digital customer marketing environment. In this example network is optional. In other words if one or more servers and or data processing systems are located at digital customer marketing environment the illustrative embodiments are capable of being implemented without requiring a network connection to computers located remotely to digital customer marketing environment .

A merchant owner operator manager or other employee associated with digital customer marketing environment typically wants to market products or services to customers in the most convenient and efficient manner possible so as to maximize resulting purchases by the customer and increase sales profits and or revenue. Therefore the aspects of the illustrative embodiments recognize that it is advantageous for the merchant to have as much information as possible describing one or more customers and to anticipate items that the customer may wish to purchase prior to the customer selecting those items for purchase in order to identify the best items to market to the customer and personalize the merchant s marketing strategy to that particular customer.

Therefore the illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product for automatically determining a marketing status for a customer. The process receives data from a set of detectors associated with a retail facility to form detection data for the customer. The set of detectors is a set of one or more detectors. The detectors may include one or more detectors located outside the retail facility and or one or more detectors located inside the retail facility. The detection data is gathered in real time as the customer is shopping at the retail facility.

The process processes the detection data to form dynamic data for the customer. The process analyzes the dynamic data to identify a set of marketing initiation factors. The set of marketing initiation factors includes one or more marketing initiation factors. The marketing initiation factors indicate a degree of receptivity of the customer to marketing messages.

In response to a determination that the set of marketing initiation factors indicate initiation of marketing to the customer the process generates a customized marketing message for the customer. The process dynamically transmits the customized marketing message to a display device associated with the customer. The display device displays the customized marketing message to the customer in real time as the customer is shopping at the retail facility. Real time refers to something that occurs immediately as or within some period of time needed to achieve the objective of using real time display of the customized marketing message.

Retail facility is a facility for wholly or partially storing enclosing or displaying items for marketing viewing selection order and or purchase by a customer. For example retail facility may be without limitation a retail store supermarket grocery store a marketplace a food pavilion a book store clothing store department store or shopping mall. Retail facility may also include without limitation a sports arena amusement park water park convention center trade center or any other facility for housing storing displaying offering providing and or selling items. In this example retail facility is a grocery store or a department store.

Detectors are devices for gathering data associated with a set of customers including but not limited to at least one camera motion sensor device motion detector sonar detection device microphone sound audio recording device audio detection device a voice recognition system a heat sensor thermal sensor a seismograph a pressure sensor a device for detecting odors scents and or fragrances a radio frequency identification RFID tag reader a global positioning system GPS receiver and or any other detection device for detecting a presence of a human animal object and or vehicle located outside of retail facility . A set of customers is a set of one or more customers. A vehicle is any type of vehicle for conveying people animals or objects to a destination. A vehicle may include but is not limited to a car bus truck motorcycle boat airplane or any other type of vehicle.

A heat sensor is any known or available device for detecting heat such as but not limited to a thermal imaging device for generating images showing thermal heat patterns. A heat sensor can detect body heat generated by a human or animal and or heat generated by a vehicle such as an automobile or a motorcycle. A set of heat sensors may include one or more heat sensors.

A motion detector may be implemented in any type of known or available motion detector device. A motion detector device may include but is not limited to one or more motion detector devices using a photo sensor radar or microwave radio detector or ultrasonic sound waves.

A motion detector using ultrasonic sound waves transmits or emits ultrasonic sound waves. The motion detector detects or measures the ultrasonic sound waves that are reflected back to the motion detector. If a human animal or other object moves within the range of the ultrasonic sound waves generated by the motion detector the motion detector detects a change in the echo of sound waves reflected back. This change in the echo indicates the presence of a human animal or other object moving within the range of the motion detector.

In one example a motion detector device using a radar or microwave radio detector may detect motion by sending out a burst of microwave radio energy and detecting the same microwave radio waves when the radio waves are deflected back to the motion detector. If a human animal or other object moves into the range of the microwave radio energy field generated by the motion detector the amount of energy reflected back to the motion detector is changed. The motion detector identifies this change in reflected energy as an indication of the presence of a human animal or other object moving within the motion detectors range.

A motion detector device using a photo sensor detects motion by sending a beam of light across a space into a photo sensor. The photo sensor detects when a human animal or object breaks or interrupts the beam of light as the human animal or object by moving in between the source of the beam of light and the photo sensor. These examples of motion detectors are presented for illustrative purposes only. A motion detector in accordance with the illustrative embodiments may include any type of known or available motion detector and is not limited to the motion detectors described herein.

A pressure sensor detector may be for example a device for detecting a change in weight or mass associated with the pressure sensor. For example if one or more pressure sensors are imbedded in a sidewalk Astroturf or floor mat the pressure sensor detects a change in weight or mass when a human customer or animal steps on the pressure sensor. The pressure sensor may also detect when a human customer or animal steps off of the pressure sensor. In another example one or more pressure sensors are embedded in a parking lot and the pressure sensors detect a weight and or mass associated with a vehicle when the vehicle is in contact with the pressure sensor. A vehicle may be in contact with one or more pressure sensors when the vehicle is driving over one or more pressure sensors and or when a vehicle is parked on top of one or more pressure sensors.

A camera may be any type of known or available camera including but not limited to a video camera for taking moving video images a digital camera capable of taking still pictures and or a continuous video stream a stereo camera a web camera and or any other imaging device capable of capturing a view of whatever appears within the camera s range for remote monitoring viewing or recording of a distant or obscured person object or area.

Various lenses filters and other optical devices such as zoom lenses wide angle lenses mirrors prisms and the like may also be used with an image capture device to assist in capturing the desired view. The image capture device may be fixed in a particular orientation and configuration or it may along with any optical devices be programmable in orientation light sensitivity level focus or other parameters. Programming data may be provided via a computing device such as server in .

A camera may also be a stationary camera and or non stationary camera. A non stationary camera is a camera that is capable of moving and or rotating along one or more directions such as up down left right and or rotate about an axis of rotation. The camera may also be capable of moving to follow or track a person animal or object in motion. In other words the camera may be capable of moving about an axis of rotation in order to keep a customer animal or object within a viewing range of the camera lens. In this example detectors are non stationary digital video cameras. The camera may be coupled to and or in communication with the analysis server. In addition more than one image capture device may be operated simultaneously without departing from the illustrative embodiments of the present invention.

In this example detectors are located at locations along an outer perimeter of digital customer marketing environment . However detectors may be located at any position outside retail facility to detect customers before the customers enter retail facility and or when customers exit retail facility .

Detectors are connected to an analysis server on a data processing system such as network data processing system in . The analysis server is illustrated and described in greater detail in below. The analysis server includes software for analyzing digital images and other data captured by detectors to track and or visually identify retail items containers and or customers outside retail facility . Attachment of identifying marks may be part of this visual identification in the illustrative embodiments.

In this example four detectors detectors are located outside retail facility . However any number of detectors may be used to detect track and or gather dynamic data associated with customers outside retail facility . For example a single detector as well as two or more detectors may be used outside retail facility for tracking customers entering and or exiting retail facility . The dynamic customer data gathered by the one or more detectors in detectors is referred to herein as external data.

Retail facility may also optionally include set of detectors inside retail facility . Set of detectors is a set of one or more detectors such as detectors . Set of detectors are detectors for gathering dynamic data inside retail facility . The dynamic data gathered by set of detectors includes without limitation grouping data identification data and or customer behavior data. The dynamic data associated with a customer that is captured by one or more detectors in set of detectors is referred to herein as internal data.

Set of detectors may be located at any location within retail facility . In addition set of detectors may include multiple detectors located at differing locations within retail facility . For example a detector in set of detectors may be located without limitation at an entrance to retail facility on one or more shelves in retail facility and or on one or more doors or doorways in retail facility . In one embodiment set of detectors includes one or more cameras or other image capture devices for tracking and or identifying items containers for items shopping containers customers shopping companions of the customer shopping carts and or store employees inside retail facility .

Display devices are multimedia devices for displaying marketing messages to customers. Display devices may be any type of display device for presenting a text graphic audio video and or any combination of text graphics audio and video to a customer. In this example display devices are located inside retail facility . Display devices may be one or more display devices located within retail facility for use and or viewing by one or more customers. The images shown on display devices are changed in real time in response to various events such as without limitation the time of day the day of the week a particular customer approaching the shelves or rack items already placed inside container by the customer and dynamic data for the customer.

Display devices located outside retail facility include at least one display device. The display device s may be without limitation a display screen or a kiosk located in a parking lot queue line and or other area outside of retail facility . Display devices outside retail facility may be used in the absence of display devices inside retail facility or in addition to display devices .

Display device may be operatively connected to a data processing system via wireless infrared radio or other connection technologies known in the art for the purpose of transferring data to be displayed on display device . The data processing system includes the analysis server for analyzing dynamic external customer data obtained from detectors and set of detectors as well as static customer data obtained from one or more databases storing data associated with customers.

Container is a container for holding carrying transporting or moving one or more items. For example container may be without limitation a shopping cart a shopping bag a shopping basket and or any other type of container for holding items. In this example container is a shopping cart. In this example in only one container is depicted. However any number of containers may be used inside and or outside retail facility for holding carrying transporting or moving items selected by customers.

Container may also optionally include identification tag . Identification tag is a tag for identifying container locating container within digital customer marketing environment either inside or outside retail facility and or associating container with a particular customer. For example identification tag may be a radio frequency identification RFID tag a universal product code UPC tag a global positioning system GPS tag and or any other type of identification tag for identifying locating and or tracking a container.

Container may also include display device coupled to mounted on attached to or imbedded within container . Display device is a multimedia display device for displaying textual graphical video and or audio marketing messages to a customer. For example display device may be a digital display screen or personal digital assistant attached to a handle front back or side member of container .

Container may optionally include an identification tag reader not shown for receiving data from identification tags associated with retail items . Retail items are items of merchandise for sale. Retail items may be displayed on a display shelf not shown located in retail facility . Other items of merchandise may be for sale such as without limitation food beverages shoes clothing household goods decorative items or sporting goods may be hung from display racks displayed in cabinets on shelves or in refrigeration units not shown . Any other type of merchandise display arrangement known in the retail trade may also be used in accordance with the illustrative embodiments. For example display shelves or racks may include in addition to retail items various advertising displays images or postings.

Retail items may be viewed or identified by the illustrative embodiments using an image capture device or other detector in set of detectors . To facilitate identification items may have attached identification tags . Identification tags are tags associated with one or more retail items for identifying the item and or location of the item. For example identification tags may be without limitation a bar code pattern such as a universal product code UPC or European article number EAN a radio frequency identification RFID tag or other optical identification tag depending on the capabilities of the image capture device and associated data processing system to process the information and make an identification of retail items . In some embodiments an optical identification may be attached to more than one side of a given item.

The data processing system discussed in greater detail in below includes associated memory which may be an integral part such as the operating memory of the data processing system or externally accessible memory. Software for tracking objects may reside in the memory and run on the processor. The software is capable of tracking retail items as a customer removes an item in retail items from its display position and places the item into container . Likewise the tracking software can track items which are being removed from container and placed elsewhere in the retail store whether placed back in their original display position or anywhere else including into another container. The tracking software can also track the position of container and the customer.

The software can track retail items by using data from one or more of detectors located externally to retail facility internal data captured by one or more detectors in set of detectors located internally to retail facility such as identification data received from identification tags and or identification data received from identification tag .

The software in the data processing system keeps a list of which items have been placed in each shopping container such as container . The list is stored in a database such as without limitation a spreadsheet relational database hierarchical database or the like. The database may be stored in the operating memory of the data processing system externally on a secondary data storage device locally on a recordable medium such as a hard drive floppy drive CD ROM DVD device remotely on a storage area network such as storage area network in or in any other type of storage device.

The lists of items in container are updated frequently enough to maintain a dynamic accurate real time listing of the contents of each container as customers add and remove items from containers such as container . The listings of items in containers are also made available to whatever inventory system is used in retail facility . Such listings represent an up to the minute view of which items are still available for sale for example to on line shopping customers or customers physically located at retail facility . The listings may also provide a demand side trigger back to the supplier of each item. In other words the listing of items in customer shopping containers can be used to update inventories determine current stock available for sale to customers and or identification of items that need to be restocked or replenished.

At any time the customer using container may request to see a listing of the contents of container by entering a query at a user interface to the data processing system. The user interface may be available at a kiosk computer personal digital assistant or other computing device connected to the data processing system via a network connection. The user interface may also be coupled to a display device such as at a display device in display devices display devices or display device associated with container . The customer may also make such a query after leaving the retail store. For example a query may be made using a portable device or a home computer workstation.

The listing is then displayed at a location where it may be viewed by the customer on a display device. The listing may include the quantity of each item in container as well as the brand price of each item discount or amount saved off the regular price of each item and a total price for all items in container . Other data may also be displayed as part of the listing such as additional incentives to purchase one or more other items.

When the customer is finished shopping the customer may proceed to a point of sale checkout station. The checkout station may be coupled to the data processing system in which case the items in container are already known to the data processing system due to the dynamic listing of items in container that is maintained as the customer shops in digital customer marketing environment . Thus there is no need for an employee customer or other person to scan each item in container to complete the purchase of each item as is commonly done today. In this example the customer merely arranges for payment of the total for example by use of a smart card credit card debit card cash or other payment method. In some embodiments it may not be necessary to empty container at the retail facility at all if container is a minimal cost item which can be kept by the customer.

In other embodiments container belongs to the customer. The customer brings container to retail facility at the start of the shopping session. In another embodiment container belongs to retail facility and must be returned before the customer leaves digital customer marketing environment .

In another example when the customer is finished shopping the customer may complete checkout either in aisle or from a final or terminal based checkout position in the store using a transactional device which may be integral with container or associated temporarily to container . The customer may also complete the transaction using a consumer owned computing device such as a laptop cellular telephone or personal digital assistant that is connected to the data processing system via a network connection.

The customer may also make payment by swiping a magnetic strip on a card using any known or available radio frequency identification RFID enabled payment device or using a biometric device for identifying the customer by the customer s fingerprint voiceprint thumbprint and or retinal pattern. In such as case the customer s account is automatically charged after the customer is identified.

The transactional device may also be a portable device such as a laptop computer palm device or any other portable device specially configured for such in aisle checkout service whether integral with container or separately operable. In this example the transactional device connects to the data processing system via a network connection to complete the purchase transaction at check out time.

Checkout may be performed in aisle or at the end of the shopping trip whether from any point or from a specified point of transaction. As noted above checkout transactional devices may be stationary shared devices or portable or mobile devices offered to the customer from the store or may be devices brought to the store by the customer which are compatible with the data processing system and software residing on the data processing system.

Thus in this depicted example when a customer enters digital customer marketing environment but before the customer enters retail facility such as a retail store the customer is detected and identified by one or more detectors in detectors to generate external data. The customer identification may be an exact identification of the customer by name identification by an identifier or an anonymous identification that is used to track the customer even though the customer s exact name and identity is not known. If the customer takes a shopping container before entering retail facility the shopping container is also identified. In some embodiments the customer may be identified through identification of container .

An analysis server in a data processing system associated with retail facility begins performing data mining on available static customer data such as but not limited to customer profile information and demographic information for use in generating customized marketing messages targeted to the customer. In one embodiment the customer is presented with customized digital marketing messages on one or more display devices in display devices located externally to retail facility before the customer enters retail facility .

The customer is tracked using image data and or other detection data captured by detectors as the customer enters retail facility . The customer is identified and tracked inside retail facility by one or more detectors inside the facility such as set of detectors .

When the customer enters retail facility the customer is typically offered provided or permitted to take shopping container for use during shopping.

When the customer takes a shopping container such as container the analysis server uses data from set of detectors such as identification data from identification tags and to track container and items selected by the customer and placed in container .

As a result an item selected by the customer for example as the customer removes the item from its stationary position on a store display is identified. The selected item may be traced visually by a camera tracked by another type of detector in set of detectors and or using identification data from identification tags . The item is tracked until the customer places it in container to form a selected item.

Thus a selected item is identified when a customer removes an item from a store display such as a shelf display counter basket or hanger. In another embodiment the selected item is identified when the customer places the item in the customer s shopping basket shopping bag or shopping cart. The analysis server then selects one or more upsale items related to the selected items for marketing to the customer. In another embodiment the analysis server selects one or more cross sale items correlated to the selected item. The analysis server stores a listing of selected items placed in the shopping container.

Container may contain a digital media display such as display device mounted on container and or customer may be offered a handheld digital media display device such as a display device in display devices . In the alternative the customer may be encouraged to use strategically placed kiosks running digital media marketing messages throughout retail facility . Display device and or may include a verification device for verifying an identity of the customer.

For example display device may include a radio frequency identification tag reader for reading a radio frequency identification tag a smart card reader for reading a smart card or a card reader for reading a specialized store loyalty or frequent customer card. Once the customer has been verified the data processing system retrieves past purchase history total potential wallet share shopper segmentation information customer profile data granular demographic data for the customer and or any other available customer data elements using known or available data retrieval and or data mining techniques. These customer data elements are analyzed using at least one data model to determine appropriate digital media content to be pushed on demand throughout the store to customers viewing display devices and or display device .

The customer is provided with incentives to use display devices and or display device to obtain marketing incentives promotional offers and discounts for upsale items and or cross sale items correlated to one or more selected items. When the customer has finished shopping the customer may be provided with a list of savings or tiered accounting of savings over the regular price of purchased items if a display device had not been used to view and use customized digital marketing messages.

In this example a single container and a single customer is described. However the aspects of the illustrative embodiments may also be used to track multiple containers and multiple customers simultaneously. In this case the analysis server will store a separate listing of selected items for each active customer. As noted above the listings may be stored in a database. The listing of items in a given container is displayed to a customer employee agent or other customer in response to a query. The listing may be displayed to a customer at any time either while actively shopping during check out or after the customer leaves retail facility .

This process provides an intelligent guided selling methodology to optimize customer throughput in the store thereby maximizing or optimizing total retail content and or retail sales profit and or revenue for retail facility . It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the words optimize optimization and related terms are terms of art that refer to improvements in speed and or efficiency of a computer program and do not purport to indicate that a computer program has achieved or is capable of achieving an optimal or perfectly speedy perfectly efficient state.

Next is a block diagram of a data processing system in which illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Data processing system is an example of a computer such as server or client in in which computer usable code or instructions implementing the processes may be located for the illustrative embodiments. In this example data is transmitted from data processing system to the retail facility over a network such as network in . In another embodiment data processing system is located on site at the retail facility.

In the depicted example data processing system employs a hub architecture including a north bridge and memory controller hub MCH and a south bridge and input output I O controller hub ICH . Processing unit main memory and graphics processor are coupled to north bridge and memory controller hub . Processing unit may contain one or more processors and even may be implemented using one or more heterogeneous processor systems. Graphics processor may be coupled to the MCH through an accelerated graphics port AGP for example.

In the depicted example local area network LAN adapter is coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub and audio adapter keyboard and mouse adapter modem read only memory ROM universal serial bus USB ports and other communications ports and PCI PCIe devices are coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus and hard disk drive HDD and CD ROM drive are coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub through bus . PCI PCIe devices may include for example Ethernet adapters add in cards and PC cards for notebook computers. PCI uses a card bus controller while PCIe does not. ROM may be for example a flash binary input output system BIOS . Hard disk drive and CD ROM drive may use for example an integrated drive electronics IDE or serial advanced technology attachment SATA interface. A super I O SIO device may be coupled to south bridge and I O controller hub .

An operating system runs on processing unit and coordinates and provides control of various components within data processing system in . The operating system may be a commercially available operating system such as Microsoft Windows XP Microsoft and Windows are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States other countries or both . An object oriented programming system such as the Java programming system may run in conjunction with the operating system and provides calls to the operating system from Java programs or applications executing on data processing system . Java and all Java based trademarks are trademarks of Sun Microsystems Inc. in the United States other countries or both.

Instructions for the operating system the object oriented programming system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as hard disk drive and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processing unit . The processes of the illustrative embodiments may be performed by processing unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as for example main memory read only memory or in one or more peripheral devices.

In some illustrative examples data processing system may be a personal digital assistant PDA which is generally configured with flash memory to provide non volatile memory for storing operating system files and or customer generated data. A bus system may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus an I O bus and a PCI bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any type of communications fabric or architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the fabric or architecture. A communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. A memory may be for example main memory or a cache such as found in north bridge and memory controller hub . A processing unit may include one or more processors or CPUs.

With reference now to a diagram of a display device in the form of a personal digital assistant PDA is depicted in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Personal digital assistant includes a display screen for presenting textual and graphical information. Display screen may be a known display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD device. The display may be used to present a map or directions calendar information a telephone directory or an electronic mail message. In these examples display screen may receive customer input using an input device such as for example stylus .

Personal digital assistant may also include keypad speaker and antenna . Keypad may be used to receive customer input in addition to using display screen . Speaker provides a mechanism for audio output such as presentation of an audio file. Antenna provides a mechanism used in establishing a wireless communications link between personal digital assistant and a network such as network in .

Personal digital assistant also preferably includes a graphical user interface that may be implemented by means of systems software residing in computer readable media in operation within personal digital assistant .

Turning now to a block diagram of a personal digital assistant display device is shown in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. Personal digital assistant is an example of a personal digital assistant such as personal digital assistant in in which code or instructions implementing the processes of the present invention for displaying customized digital marketing messages may be located. Personal digital assistant includes a bus to which processor and main memory are connected. Display adapter keypad adapter storage and audio adapter also are connected to bus . Cradle link provides a mechanism to connect personal digital assistant to a cradle used in synchronizing data in personal digital assistant with another data processing system. Further display adapter also includes a mechanism to receive customer input from a stylus when a touch screen display is employed.

An operating system runs on processor and is used to coordinate and provide control of various components within personal digital assistant in . The operating system may be for example a commercially available operating system such as Windows CE which is available from Microsoft Corporation. Instructions for the operating system and applications or programs are located on storage devices such as storage and may be loaded into main memory for execution by processor .

The depicted examples in are not meant to imply architectural limitations. The hardware in may vary depending on the implementation. Other internal hardware or peripheral devices such as flash memory equivalent non volatile memory or optical disk drives and the like may be used in addition to or in place of the hardware depicted in . Also the processes of the illustrative embodiments may be applied to a multiprocessor data processing system.

Referring now to a block diagram of a data processing system for analyzing dynamic customer data is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Data processing system is a data processing system such as data processing system in and or data processing system in .

Analysis server is any type of known or available server for analyzing dynamic customer data elements for use in generating customized digital marketing messages. Analysis server may be a server such as server in or data processing system in . Analysis server includes set of data models for analyzing dynamic customer data elements and static customer data elements.

Set of data models is one or more data models created a priori or pre generated for use in analyzing customer data objects for personalizing content of marketing messages presented to the customer. Set of data models includes one or more data models for identifying customer data objects and determining relationships between the customer data objects. The data models in set of data models are generated using at least one of a statistical method a data mining method a causal model a mathematical model a marketing model a behavioral model a psychological model a sociological model or a simulation model.

Profile data is data regarding one or more customers. In this example profile data includes point of contact data profiled past data current actions data transactional history data certain click stream data granular demographics psychographic data registration e.g. customer provided data and account data and or any other data regarding a customer.

Point of contact data is data regarding a method or device used by a customer to interact with a data processing system of a merchant or supplier and or receive customized marketing message for display. The customer may interact with the merchant or supplier using a computing device or display terminal having a user interface for inputting data and or receiving output. The device or terminal may be a device provided by the retail facility and or a device belonging to or provided by the customer. For example the display or access device may include but is not limited to a cellular telephone a laptop computer a desktop computer a computer terminal kiosk personal digital assistant PDA such as a personal digital assistant in or personal digital assistant in or any other display or access device such as display device .

If display device is a display device associated with the retail facility details and information regarding display device will be known to analysis server . However if display device is a display device belonging to the customer or brought to the retail facility by the customer analysis server may identify the type of display device using techniques such as interrogation commands cookies or any other known or equivalent technique. From the type of device other constraints may be determined such as display size resolution refresh rate color capability keyboard entry capability other entry capability such as pointer or mouse speech recognition and response language constraints and any other fingertip touch point constraints and assumptions about customer state of the display device. For example someone using a cellular phone may have a limited time window for making phone calls and be sensitive to location and local time of day whereas a casual home browser may have a greater luxury of time and faster connectivity.

An indication of a location for the point of contact may also be determined. For example global positioning system GPS coordinates of the customer may be determined if the customer device has such a capability whether by including a real time global positioning system receiver or by periodically storing global positioning system coordinates entered by some other method. Other location indications may also be determined such as post office address street or crossroad coordinates latitude longitude coordinates or any other location indicating system.

Analysis server may also determine the connectivity associated with the customer s point of contact. For example the customer may be connected to the merchant or supplier in any of a number ways such as a modem digital modem network wireless network Ethernet intranet or high speed lines including fiber optic lines. Each way of connection imposes constraints of speed latency and or mobility which can then also be determined.

The profiled past comprises data that may be used in whole or in part for individualization of customized marketing message . Global profile data may be retrieved from a file database data warehouse or any other data storage device. Multiple storage devices and software may also be used to store profile data . Some or all of the data may be retrieved from the point of contact device as well. The profiled past may comprise an imposed profile global profile individual profile and demographic profile. The profiles may be combined or layered to define the customer for specific promotions and marketing offers.

In the illustrative embodiments a global profile includes data on the customer s interests preferences and affiliations. The profiled past may also comprise retrieving purchased data. Various firms provide data for purchase which is grouped or keyed to presenting a lifestyle or life stage view of customers by block or group or some other baseline parameter. The purchased data presents a view of one or more customers based on aggregation of data points such as but not limited to geographic block age of head of household income level number of children education level ethnicity and purchasing patterns.

The profiled past may also include navigational data relating to the path the customer used to arrive at a web page which indicates where the customer came from or the path the customer followed to link to the merchant or supplier s web page. Transactional data of actions taken is data regarding a transaction. For example transaction data may include data regarding whether the transaction is a first time transaction or a repeat transaction and or how much the customer usually spends. Information on how much a customer generally spends during a given transaction may be referred to as basket share. Data voluntarily submitted by the customer in responding to questions or a survey may also be included in the profiled past.

Current actions also called a current and historical record are also included in profile data . Current actions are data defining customer behavior. One source of current actions is listings of the purchases made by the customer payments and returns made by the customer and or click stream data from a point of contact device of the customer. Click stream data is data regarding a customer s navigation of an online web page of the merchant or supplier. Click stream data may include page hits sequence of hits duration of page views response to advertisements transactions made and conversion rates. Conversion rate is the number of times the customer takes action divided by the number of times an opportunity is presented.

In this example profiled past data for a given customer is stored in analysis server . However in accordance with the illustrative embodiments profiled past data may also be stored in any local or remote data storage device including but not limited to a device such as storage area network in or read only memory ROM and or compact disk read only memory CD ROM in .

Granular demographics is a source of static customer data elements. Static customer data elements are data elements that do not tend to change in real time such as a customer s name date of birth and address. Granular demographics provides a detailed demographics profile for one or more customers. Granular demographics may include without limitation ethnicity block group lifestyle life stage income and education data. Granular demographics may be used as an additional layer of profile data associated with a customer.

Psychographic data refers to an attitude profile of the customer. Examples of attitude profiles include without limitation a trend buyer a time strapped person who prefers to purchase a complete outfit a cost conscious shopper a customer that prefers to buy in bulk or a professional buyer who prefers to mix and match individual items from various suppliers.

Dynamic data is data that includes dynamic customer data elements that are changing in real time. For example dynamic customer data elements could include without limitation the current contents of a customer s shopping basket the time of day the day of the week whether it is the customer s birthday or other holiday observed by the customer customer s responses to marketing messages and or items viewed by the customer customer location the customer s current shopping companions the speed or pace at which the customer is walking through the retail facility and or any other dynamically changing customer information. Dynamic data includes external data grouping data customer identification data customer behavior data and or current events data.

Dynamic data is processed and or analyzed to generate customized marketing messages. Processing dynamic data includes but is not limited to filtering dynamic data for relevant data elements combining dynamic data with other dynamic customer data elements comparing dynamic data to baseline or comparison models for external data and or formatting dynamic data for utilization and or analysis in one or more data models in set of data models . The processed dynamic data is analyzed and or further processed using one or more data models in set of data models .

Marketing initiation engine is software for analyzing dynamic data using a first set of data models in set of data models to identify a set of marketing initiation factors and set marketing status flag associated with the customer using the set of marketing initiation factors. The marketing initiation factors indicate a degree of receptivity of the customer to marketing messages. The marketing initiation factors are used in a determination as to whether to set a status of the customer to an initiate marketing status or a negative marketing status.

Marketing status flag in profile data is a flag in a customer profile for a particular customer. Marketing status flag indicates whether customized marketing messages are delivered to the customer. The customized marketing messages are displayed to the customer in response to marketing initiation engine setting marketing status flag to a market status. Marketing initiation engine sets the marketing status for the customer to a no market status in response to the set of marketing initiation factors indicating the customer is unreceptive to marketing messages. A negative marketing status indicates that customized marketing messages are not transmitted to any display devices for display to the customer.

In this example marketing initiation engine retrieves a customer profile for the customer from profile data . The customer profile indicates customary days of the week the customer has shopped in the past customary times of day when the customer has shopped at the retail facility a customary grouping category and or past behavior of the customer while shopping at the retail facility on a different shopping trip.

The customary day of the week is a day of the week on which the customer shops frequently or customarily shops. A day of the week is a customary day of the week if the customer has shopped at the retail facility on that day of the week for a threshold percentage of the total shopping visits. In another embodiment a day of the week is a customary day of the week if the customer has shopped at the retail facility on that day of the week for threshold number of times.

In response to determining that the current day of the week is a customary day of the week in the customary days of the week the customer has shopped in the past marketing initiation engine generates positive marketing initiation factors. If the current day of the week is not a customary day of the week in the customary days of the week the customer has shopped in the past marketing initiation engine generates negative marketing initiation factors.

The customary time of day is a time of the day during which the customer frequently or customarily shops. A time of day is a customary time of day if the customer has shopped at the retail facility at that time of day for threshold percentage of the customer s total shopping visits. In another embodiment a time of day is a time of day if the customer has shopped at the retail facility at that time of day for threshold number of times.

If the current time falls within a range of the customary times of day marketing initiation engine generates positive marketing initiation factors. If the current time falls outside of a range of the customary times of day marketing initiation engine generates negative marketing initiation factors.

Grouping data is dynamic data that identifies a grouping category for the customer. A grouping category is a description of a group or shopping companions of the customer while the customer is shopping. A grouping category includes without limitation parents with children teenagers minors unaccompanied by adults minors accompanied by adults grandparents with grandchildren senior citizens couples friends coworkers customer with a pet customer with a dog customer with a cat and a customer shopping alone.

A customary grouping category describes the companions a customer usually shops with. If the current grouping category for the customer is a customary grouping category in the customary grouping categories marketing initiation engine generates positive marketing initiation factors. If the current grouping category for the customer is a grouping category that is different than the customary grouping categories marketing initiation engine generates negative marketing initiation factors. For example if a customary grouping category indicates the customer usually shops alone and the current grouping category indicates the customer is shopping with three children marketing initiation engine generates negative marketing initiation factors.

Marketing initiation engine compares the current customer behavior data to the past customer behavior data. If the comparison indicates the customer is walking at a customary pace or shopping at a customary rate marketing initiation engine generates positive marketing initiation factors. If the comparison indicates the customer is walking at a pace that is faster than the customary pace or shopping at a rate that is faster than the customary rate of shopping marketing initiation engine generates negative marketing initiation factors.

Content server is any type of known or available server for storing modular marketing messages . Content server may be a server such as server in or data processing system in .

Modular marketing messages are two or more self contained marketing messages that may be combined with one or more other modular marketing messages in modular marketing messages to form a customized marketing message for display to the customer. Modular marketing messages can be quickly and dynamically assembled and disseminated to the customer in real time.

In this illustrative example modular marketing messages are pre generated. In other words modular marketing messages are preexisting marketing message units that are created prior to analyzing dynamic data associated with a customer using one or more data models to generate a personalized marketing message for the customer. Two or more modular marketing messages are combined to dynamically generate customized marketing message customized or personalized for a particular customer. Although modular marketing messages are pre generated modular marketing messages may also include templates imbedded within modular marketing messages for adding personalized information such as a customer s name or address to the customized marketing message.

Derived marketing messages is a software component for determining which modular marketing messages in modular marketing messages should be combined or utilized to dynamically generate customized marketing message for the customer in real time. Derived marketing messages uses the output generated by analysis server as a result of analyzing dynamic data associated with a customer using one or more appropriate data models in set of data models to identify one or more modular marketing messages for the customer. The output generated by analysis server from analyzing dynamic data using appropriate data models in set of data models includes marketing message criteria for the customer.

In other words dynamic data is analyzed to generate personal marketing message criteria. Derived marketing messages uses the marketing message criteria for the customer to select one or more modular marketing messages in modular marketing messages .

A customized marketing message is generated using personalized marketing message criteria that are identified using the dynamic data. Personalized marketing message criteria are criterion or indicators for selecting one or more modular marketing messages for inclusion in the customized marketing message. The personalized marketing message criteria may include one or more criterion. The personalized marketing message criteria may be generated in part a priori or pre generated and in part dynamically in real time based on the dynamic data for the customer and or any available static customer data associated with the customer. Dynamic data includes external data gathered outside the retail facility and or dynamic data gathered inside the retail facility.

If an analysis of dynamic data indicates that the customer is shopping with a large dog the personal marketing message criteria may include criteria to indicate marketing of pet food and items for large dogs. Because people with large dogs often have large yards the personal marketing message criteria may also indicate that yard items such as yard fertilizer weed killer or insect repellant may should be marketed. The personal marketing message criteria may also indicate marketing elements designed to appeal to animal lovers and pet owners such as incorporating images of puppies images of dogs phrases such as man s best friend puppy love advice on pet care and dog health and or other pet friendly images phrases and elements to appeal to the customer s tastes and interests.

Derived marketing messages uses the output of one or more data models in set of data models that were used to analyze dynamic data associated with a customer to identify one or more modular marketing messages to be combined together to form the personalized marketing message for the customer.

For example a first modular marketing message may be a special on a more expensive brand of peanut butter. A second modular marketing message may be a discount on jelly when peanut butter is purchased. In response to marketing message criteria that indicates the customer frequently purchases cheaper brands of peanut butter the customer has children and the customer is currently in an aisle of the retail facility that includes jars of peanut butter derived marketing messages will select the first marketing message and the second marketing message based on the marketing message criteria for the customer.

Dynamic marketing message assembly is a software component for combining the one or more modular marketing messages selected by derived marketing messages to form customized marketing message . Dynamic marketing message assembly combines modular marketing messages selected by derived marketing messages to create appropriate customized marketing message for the customer. In the example above after derived marketing messages selects the first modular marketing message and the second modular marketing message based on the marketing message criteria dynamic marketing message assembly combines the first and second modular marketing messages to generate a customized marketing message offering the customer a discount on both the peanut butter and jelly if the customer purchases the more expensive brand of peanut butter. In this manner dynamic marketing message assembly provides assembly of customized marketing message based on output from the data models analyzing dynamic data.

Customized marketing message is a customized and unique marketing message for a customer. The marketing message is a one to one customized marketing message for a specific customer. Customized marketing message is generated using dynamic data and or static customer data elements such as the customer s demographics and psychographics to achieve this unique one to one marketing.

Customized marketing message is generated for a particular customer based on dynamic customer data elements such as grouping data customer identification data current events data and customer behavior data. For example if modular marketing messages include marketing messages identified by numerals customized marketing message may be generated using marketing messages and . In this example modular marketing messages and are combined to create a customized marketing message that is generated for display to the customer rather than displaying the exact same marketing messages to all customers. Customized marketing message is displayed on display device .

Customized marketing message may include advertisements sales special offers incentives opportunities promotional offers rebate information and or rebate offers discounts and opportunities. An opportunity may be a take action opportunity such as asking the customer to make an immediate purchase select a particular item request a download provide information or take any other type of action.

Customized marketing message may also include content or messages pushing advertisements and opportunities to effectively and appropriately drive the point of contact customer to some conclusion or reaction desired by the merchant.

Customized marketing message is formed in a dynamic closed loop manner in which the content delivery depends on dynamic data as well as other dynamic customer data elements and static customer data such as profile data and granular demographics . Therefore all interchanges with the customer may sense and gather data associated with customer behavior which is used to generate customized marketing message .

Display device is a multimedia display for presenting customized marketing messages to one or more customers. Display device may be a multimedia display such as but not limited to display devices and in . Display device may be for example a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with a display screen an electronic sign a laptop computer a tablet PC a kiosk a digital media display a display screen mounted on a shopping container and or any other type of device for displaying digital messages to a customer.

Thus a merchant has a capability for interacting with the customer on a direct one to one level by sending customized marketing message to display device . Customized marketing message may be sent and displayed to the customer via a network. For example customized marketing message may be sent via a web site accessed as a unique uniform resource location URL address on the World Wide Web as well as any other networked connectivity or conventional interaction including but not limited to a telephone computer terminal cell phone or print media.

Display device may be a display device mounted on a shopping cart a shopping basket a shelf or compartment in a retail facility included in a handheld device carried by the customer or mounted on a wall in the retail facility. In response to displaying customized marketing message a customer can select to print the customized marketing message as a coupon and or as a paper or hard copy for later use. In another embodiment display device automatically prints customized marketing message for the customer rather than displaying customized marketing message on a display screen or in addition to displaying customized marketing message on the display screen.

In another embodiment display device provides an option for a customer to save customized marketing message in an electronic form for later use. For example the customer may save customized marketing message on a hand held display device on a flash memory a customer account in a data base associated with analysis server or any other data storage device. In this example when customized marketing message is displayed to the customer the customer is presented with a use offer now option and a save offer for later use option. If the customer chooses the save offer option the customer may save an electronic copy of customized marketing message and or print a paper copy of customized marketing message for later use.

Dynamic marketing message assembly transmits a customized marketing message such as customized marketing message in to one or more display devices in a set of display devices. In this example the set of display devices includes but is not limited to digital media display device kiosk personal digital assistant cellular telephone and or electronic sign . A set of display devices in accordance with the illustrative embodiments may include any combination of display devices and any number of each type of display device. For example a set of display devices may include without limitation six kiosks fifty personal digital assistants and no cellular telephones. In another example the set of display devices may include electronic signs and kiosks but no personal digital assistants or cellular telephones.

Digital media display device is any type of known or available digital media display device for displaying a marketing message. Digital media display device may include but is not limited to a monitor a plasma screen a liquid crystal display screen and or any other type of digital media display device.

Kiosk is any type of known or available kiosk. In one embodiment a kiosk is a structure having one or more open sides such as a booth. The kiosk includes a computing device associated with a display screen located inside or in association with the structure. The computing device may include a user interface for a user to provide input to the computing device and or receive output. For example the user interface may include but is not limited to a graphical user interface GUI a menu driven interface a command line interface a touch screen a voice recognition system an alphanumeric keypad and or any other type of interface.

Personal digital assistant is any type of known or available personal digital assistant PDA . Cellular telephone is any type of known or available cellular telephone and or wireless mobile telephone. Cellular telephone includes a display screen that is capable of displaying pictures graphics and or text. Additionally cellular telephone may also include an alphanumeric keypad joystick and or buttons for providing input to cellular telephone . The alphanumeric keypad joystick and or buttons may be used to initiate various functions in cellular telephone . These functions include for example activating a menu displaying a calendar receiving a call initiating a call displaying a customized marketing message saving a customized marketing message and or selecting a saved customized marketing message.

Electronic sign is any type of electronic messaging system. For example electronic sign may include without limitation an outdoor electronic light emitting diode LED display moving message boards variable message signs tickers electronic message centers video boards and or any other type of electronic signage.

The display device may also include without limitation a laptop computer a smart watch a digital message board a monitor a tablet PC a printer for printing the customized marketing message on a paper medium or any other output device for presenting output to a customer.

A display device may be located externally to the retail facility to display marketing messages to the customer before the customer enters the retail facility. In another embodiment the customized marketing message is displayed to the customer on a display device inside the retail facility after the customer enters the retail facility and begins shopping.

Turning now to a block diagram of an identification tag reader for identifying items selected by a customer is shown in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Item is any type of item such as retail items in . Identification tag associated with item is a tag for providing information regarding item to identification tag reader . Identification tag is a tag such as a tag in identification tags in . Identification tag may be a bar code a radio frequency identification tag a global positioning system tag and or any other type of tag.

Radio Frequency Identification tags include read only identification tags and read write identification tags. A read only identification tag is a tag that generates a signal in response to receiving an interrogate signal from an item identifier. A read only identification tag does not have a memory. A read write identification tag is a tag that responds to write signals by writing data to a memory within the identification tag. A read write tag can respond to interrogate signals by sending a stream of data encoded on a radio frequency carrier. The stream of data can be large enough to carry multiple identification codes. In this example identification tag is a radio frequency identification tag.

Identification tag reader is any type of known or available device for retrieving information from identification tag . Identification tag reader may be but is not limited to a radio frequency identification tag reader or a bar code reader such as identification tag reader in . A bar code reader is a device for reading a bar code such as a universal product code. In this example identification tag reader provides identification data item data and or location data to an analysis server such as analysis server in .

Identification data is data regarding the product name and or manufacturer name of item selected for purchase by a customer. Item data is information regarding item such as without limitation the regular price sale price product weight and or tare weight for item . Identification data is used to identify an item selected by a customer for purchase.

Location data is data regarding a location of item within the retail facility and or outside the retail facility. For example if identification tag is a bar code the item associated with identification tag must be in close physical proximity to identification tag reader for a bar code scanner to read a bar code on item . Therefore location data is data regarding the location of identification tag reader currently reading identification tag . However if identification tag is a global positioning system tag a substantially exact or precise location of item may be obtained using global positioning system coordinates obtained from the global positioning system tag.

Identifier database is a database for storing any information that may be needed by identification tag reader to read identification tag . For example if identification tag is a radio frequency identification tag identification tag will provide a machine readable identification code in response to a query from identification tag reader . In this case identifier database stores description pairs that associate the machine readable codes produced by identification tags with human readable descriptors. For example a description pair for the machine readable identification code 10141014111111 associated with identification tag would be paired with a human readable item description of item such as orange juice. An item description is a human understandable description of an item. Human understandable descriptions are for example text audio graphic or other representations suited for display or audible output.

External marketing manager stores current news items competitor marketing data holidays and or events data and or any other current events or news data in data storage device as external marketing data . Data storage device may be implemented as any type of data storage device including without limitation a hard disk a database a main memory a flash memory a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM or any other data storage device.

In this example external marketing manager filters or processes external marketing data to form current events data . Filtering external marketing data may include selecting data items or data objects associated with marketing one or more items to a customer. A data item or data object associated with marketing one or more items is a data element that may influence a customer s decision to purchase a product. For example the occurrence of a sporting event may influence the items selected for purchase by a customer such as pizza large screen televisions and beer.

A data element indicating the occurrence of a holiday or religious event such as Christmas or Thanksgiving may also influence the items purchased by a customer. For example as Thanksgiving approaches customers are more likely to purchase turkey and pumpkin pie. At Easter customers are more likely to purchase ham and Easter eggs.

A data element indicating that a storm or hurricane is approaching may influence projects such as installing storm shutters and generators. These data elements that may influence customer purchases and sales of items are selected to form current events data . Current events data is then sent to an analysis server such as analysis server in for use in identifying items of interest to a customer.

In this example external marketing manager filters external marketing data for relevant data elements to form current events data without intervention by a human user. In another embodiment a human user filters external marketing data manually to generate current events data . The analysis server uses the current events data to identify an event of interest to the customer that occurs within a predetermined period of time. For example if a customer profile and dynamic data indicates that the customer is Catholic and current events data indicates Mardi Gras is approaching the analysis server can identify items associated with Mardi Gras such as King Cake Marti Gras beads and masks.

Audio video capture device is a device for capturing video images and or capturing audio. Audio video capture device may be but is not limited to a digital video camera a microphone a web camera or any other device for capturing sound and or video images.

Audio data is data associated with audio captured by audio video capture device such as human voices vehicle engine sounds dog barking horns and any other sounds. Audio data may be a sound file a media file or any other form of audio data. Audio video capture device captures audio associated with a set of one or more customers inside a retail facility and or outside a retail facility to form audio data .

Video data is image data captured by audio video capture device . Video data may be a moving video file a media file a still picture a set of still pictures or any other form of image data. Video data is video or images associated with a set of one or more customers inside a retail facility and or outside a retail facility.

For example video data may include images of a customer s face an image of a part or portion of a customer s car an image of a license plate on a customer s car and or one or more images showing a customer s behavior. An image showing a customer s behavior or appearance may show a customer wearing a long coat on a hot day a customer walking with two small children which may be the customer s children or grandchildren a customer moving in a hurried or leisurely manner or any other type of behavior or appearance attributes of a customer the customer s companions or the customer s vehicle.

Audio video capture device transmits audio data and video data to smart detection engine . Audio data and video data may be referred to as detection data. Smart detection engine is software for analyzing audio data and video data . In this example smart detection engine processes audio data and video data into data and metadata to form dynamic data . Dynamic data includes but not limited to external data customer identification data grouping data customer event data and current events data . In one embodiment current events data is generated by external marketing manager in . However in this example the external marketing manager is optionally integrated within or connected to smart detection engine such that smart detection engine generates current events data .

Customer grouping data is data describing a customer s companions such as children parents siblings peers friends and or pets.

Processing the audio data and video data may include filtering audio data and video data for relevant data elements analyzing audio data and video data to form metadata describing or categorizing the contents of audio data and video data or combining audio data and video data with other audio data video data and data associated with a group of customers received from cameras.

Smart detection engine uses computer vision and pattern recognition technologies to analyze audio data and or video data . Smart detection engine includes license plate recognition technology which may be deployed in a parking lot or at the entrance to a retail facility where the license plate recognition technology catalogs a license plate of each of the arriving and departing vehicles in a parking lot associated with the retail facility.

Smart detection engine includes behavior analysis technology to detect and track moving objects and classify the objects into a number of predefined categories. As used herein an object may be a human customer an item a container a shopping cart or shopping basket or any other object inside or outside the retail facility. Behavior analysis technology could be deployed on various cameras overlooking a parking lot a perimeter or inside a facility.

Face detection recognition technology may be deployed in parking lots at entry ways and or throughout the retail facility to capture and recognize faces. Badge reader technology may be employed to read badges. Radar analytics technology may be employed to determine the presence of objects. Events from access control technologies can also be integrated into smart detection engine .

The events from all the above detection technologies are cross indexed into a single repository such as multi mode database. In such a repository a simple time range query across the modalities will extract license plate information vehicle appearance information badge information and face appearance information thus permitting an analyst to easily correlate these attributes.

Smart detection system may be implemented using any known or available software for performing voice analysis facial recognition license plate recognition and sound analysis. In this example smart detection system is implemented as IBM smart surveillance system S3 software.

The data gathered from the behavior analysis technology license plate recognition technology face detection recognition technology badge reader technology radar analytics technology and any other video audio data received from a camera or other video audio capture device is received by smart detection engine for processing into dynamic data .

The process makes a determination as to whether the customer is shopping at a customary time of the day step . For example if a majority of the customer s shopping visits to the retail facility take place in the afternoon and the customer is now shopping at midnight the customer is not shopping at a customary time of day. In another embodiment the customer is not shopping at a customary time of day if the customer is shopping at a time of day at which the customer has never shopped before or at a time of day on which the customer has not shopped for at least a threshold number of times. In other words if the customer has not shopped at midnight for at least a threshold number of shopping visits to the retail facility the customer is not shopping at a customary time of day. If the customer is not shopping at a customary time of day the process generates negative marketing initiation factors step .

The process makes a determination as to whether the customer s behavior indicates the customer is shopping at a leisurely or customary pace step . If the customer s behavior is hurried or rushed the customer is walking at a fast pace the customer is not taking as much time as normal to browse the store shelves and or the customer is selecting items more quickly than usual the customer is not shopping at a leisurely pace. If the customer is not shopping at a leisurely or customary pace the process generates negative marketing initiation factors step with the process terminating thereafter.

If the customer is shopping on a customary day of the week at a customary time of day and the customer s behavior indicates the customer is shopping at a leisurely pace the process generates positive marketing initiation factors step with the process terminating thereafter.

The steps in may be implemented in any order. Additional steps may also be included in the process of that are not shown in . In addition some of the steps in may be eliminated from the process in . For example step may be implemented before step . In addition step may be implemented after step and step . In other words positive marketing initiation factors may be generated in response to the customer shopping on a customary day of the week even if the customer is not shopping at a customary time of day. Positive marketing initiation factors may be generated for the customer shopping on a customary day and or a customary time of day even if the customer s behavior does not indicate the customer is shopping at a leisurely pace.

The process receives dynamic data for the customer step . The dynamic data is generated in real time as the customer is shopping. The process analyzes the dynamic data using a set of data models to identify marketing initiation factors step for the customer. The process makes a determination as to whether marketing to the customer is a desirable customer using the marketing initiation factors step . As used herein a desirable customer is a customer that is expected or predicted to generate profits for the retail facility increase revenues bring new valued customers to the retail facility improve publicity or positive word of mouth advertising for the retail facility and or maintain a positive relationship with the retail facility.

Marketing to the customer is desirable if the customer is likely to be receptive to marketing messages. If marketing is desirable the process initiates generation of customized marketing messages for the customer step with the process terminating thereafter. In another embodiment if the customer is desirable the process initiates other positive marketing actions such as directing store employees to assist the customer providing desirable marketing offers to the customer and or other positive marketing efforts directed towards the customer.

Returning to step if marketing to the customer is not desirable the process does not generate marketing messages for the customer step with the process terminating thereafter.

The process begins by making a determination as to whether any dynamic data for the customer is available step . If dynamic data is available the process retrieves any available dynamic data for the customer step . The dynamic data includes without limitation grouping data external data customer identification data vehicle identification data customer behavior data and or any other dynamic customer data elements.

The process pre generates or creates in advance appropriate data models using at least one of a statistical method data mining method causal model mathematical model marketing model behavioral model psychographical model sociological model simulations modeling techniques and or any combination of models data mining statistical methods simulations and or modeling techniques step . The process analyzes dynamic data using one or more of the appropriate data models to identify a set of personalized marketing message criteria step . The set of personalized marketing message criteria may include one or more criterion for generating a personalized marketing message. The process dynamically builds a set of one or more customized marketing messages using the personalized marketing message criteria step . The process transmits the set of customized marketing messages to a display device associated with the customer step for presentation of the marketing message to the customer with the process terminating thereafter.

Thus the illustrative embodiments provide a computer implemented method apparatus and computer program product for automatically determining a marketing status for a customer. The process receives data from a set of detectors associated with a retail facility to form detection data for the customer. The detection data is gathered in real time as the customer is shopping at the retail facility. The process processes the detection data to form dynamic data for the customer. The process analyzes the dynamic data to identify a set of marketing initiation factors. The marketing initiation factors indicate a degree of receptivity of the customer to marketing messages and or whether marketing to the customer is desirable. In response to the set of marketing initiation factors indicate initiation of marketing to the customer the process generates a customized marketing message for the customer. The process dynamically transmits the customized marketing message to a display device associated with the customer. The customized marketing message is displayed to the customer in real time as the customer is shopping at the retail facility.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the different depicted embodiments illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of some possible implementations of apparatus methods and computer program products. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of computer usable or readable program code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified function or functions. In some alternative implementations the function or functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example in some cases two blocks shown in succession may be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any tangible apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

Further a computer storage medium may contain or store a computer readable program code such that when the computer readable program code is executed on a computer the execution of this computer readable program code causes the computer to transmit another computer readable program code over a communications link. This communications link may use a medium that is for example without limitation physical or wireless.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

