---

title: System and method for creating and posting voice-based web 2.0 entries via a telephone interface
abstract: The present invention discloses a system and method for creating, editing, and posting a BLOG or a WIKI using a telephone. In the invention, a voice-based, real-time telephone communication can be established between a user and a voice response system. User speech can be received over the communication. The user speech can be speech-to-text converted to produce text. The text can be added to a BLOG or a WIKI, which can be posted to a server. The telephone communication can be terminated. The newly posted BLOG or WIKI can be served by the server to clients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07996229&OS=07996229&RS=07996229
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 07996229
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070621
---
This continuation in part application claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 765 900 filed Jun. 20 2007 the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 765 928 filed Jun. 20 2007 and the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 765 962 filed Jun. 20 2007 which are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to the field of BLOG and WIKI posting and more particularly to a system and method for posting to a BLOG or WIKI using a telephone.

Web 2.0 refers to a cooperative Web in which end users add value by providing content as opposed to Web systems that unidirectionally provide information from an information provider to an information consumer. In other words Web 2.0 refers to a readable writable and updateable Web. Updated information can be very important for successful Web 2.0 sites which is especially true for BLOGs which often have subscribers using Rich Site Summary RSS feeds to automatically receive content updates.

To illustrate the importance of information currency BLOGs are often used to post current sports scores news reports and other time sensitive content. People working in media covering sports or breaking news events need to rapidly provide content updates as the value of these updates diminishes rapidly over time. For major media outfits often having a large infrastructure of dedicated personnel updating BLOGs can be a matter of allocating personnel to the task. This can be expensive can induce transcription or interpretation errors and can also result in noticeable processing delays. Streamlined media outfits often consisting of single individuals or small groups can have an even more difficult time updating time sensitive content which often depends upon a journalist manually updating a BLOG themselves. This can be problematic for non technically savvy journalists and for journalists deployed to locations not convenient for Web communications.

That is currently Web 2.0 users are restricted to using Graphical User Interface GUI based editors to create and edit content. For example BLOG authors enter BLOG content via a BLOG editor accessible via a Web browser. Similarly WIKI content providers utilize a WIKI editor from a Web browser to create and or edit WIKI entries. It can often be impractical or highly inconvenient for a journalist on site to utilize a GUI equipped and network linked computing device. For example use of a notebook computer from a sporting event to quickly update a BLOG associated with the sporting event can be problematic. Significant delays in posting sporting event updates however can result in sports fans acquiring desired scores from competing journalists. It would be highly advantageous to permit content providers to post BLOG and WIKI entries via a telephony communication channel. No known system or method permits telephone based postings of BLOG or WIKI content.

It should be noted that the voice only interface can be a standard telephone interface supporting full user interaction full duplex with no hardware device dependencies. The voice response system can be a standard system configured to communicate with the Web 2.0 server using standard Web 2.0 protocols. The user interaction can be carrier independent and can occur through any voice interface via any appropriate computing device such as a line based or mobile telephone. Additionally specifics of Web 2.0 entry creation can be controlled by a configurable Web 2.0 application served by Web 2.0 server . Implementation specifics such as authentication user verification speech system settings generated entry particulars confirmation prompting and the like can be adjusted by adjusting the associated Web 2.0 application. End users are permitted to configure this Web 2.0 application in a user specific fashion as detailed by underlying U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 765 900 entitled SPEECH PROCESSING SYSTEM BASED UPON A REPRESENTATIONAL STATE TRANSFER REST ARCHITECTURE THAT USES WEB 2.0 CONCEPTS FOR SPEECH RESOURCE INTERFACES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 765 928 entitled SPEECH PROCESSING METHOD BASED UPON A REPRESENTATIONAL STATE TRANSFER REST ARCHITECTURE THAT USES WEB 2.0 CONCEPTS FOR SPEECH RESOURCE INTERFACES and or U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 765 962 entitled SPEECH ENABLED APPLICATION THAT USES WEB 2.0 CONCEPTS TO INTERFACE WITH SPEECH ENGINES .

A sample process flow for a voice entry process for environment is illustrated by steps . In step an audible welcome prompt can be presented to a user by a voice response system . In step the user can be authenticated. After authentication user specific settings if any can be applied. In step automated speech recognition ASR resources can be acquired from a speech system along with transcription services. Once a voice channel with the speech system has been established and a transcription process activated the user can be prompted to speak content for a new Web 2.0 entry as shown by step . The user can speak and the speech can be processed by the ASR engine in step . In step the ASR engine can return transcribed text . In step a BLOG or a WIKI entry can be created that includes the transcribed content. In step the transcription can be optionally played back for confirmation purposes. Playback can require a text to speech TTS resource of the speech system to be activated.

In step a BLOG WIKI can be determined which the transcribed entry is to be associated with. In one embodiment a user can be associated with a dated BLOG and step can automatically add an entry for the current date within which the transcribed content is placed. In another embodiment a user can be prompted to input a pre existing BLOG WIKI identifier to which the transcription results are to be appended. The user can also be prompted for a name of a new BLOG WIKI which is created for the transcription results. In such a case the user can also be prompted for information concerning whether the new entry is to be linked to other BLOG entries WIKI pages. In still another contemplated embodiment a user can configure a Web 2.0 application associated with the process in a user specific manner to indicate how transcribed content is to be incorporated into a Web 2.0 entry .

In step the transcribed entry can be posted to a Web 2.0 server which can thereafter serve the entry to Web 2.0 clients. In optional step the user can be asked to confirm the posted content. If the user is unsatisfied with the posting it can be discarded and the process can be repeated to create a replacement posting. Additionally the process can be modified to permit a user to edit a portion of a newly created Web 2.0 entry before it is posted in a publicly accessible fashion.

In system Web 2.0 clients can communicate with Web 2.0 servers utilizing a REST ATOM protocol. The Web 2.0 servers can serve one or more speech enabled applications where speech resources are provided by a Web 2.0 for voice system . One or more of the speech enabled applications can include AJAX or other JavaScript code. In one embodiment the AJAX code can be automatically converted from WIKI or other syntax by a transformer of a server . The servers can communicate with each other using a REST ATOM protocol. For example the WIKI server can publish WIKI data to BLOG server which organizes and indexes the WIKI data in an Atom Publishing Protocol APP compliant format.

Communications between the Web 2.0 servers and system can be in accordance with REST ATOM protocols. Each speech enabled application can be associated with an atom container which specifies Web 2.0 items resources and media . One or more resource can correspond to a speech engine . REST ATOM protocols can include HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP and similar protocols that are RESTful by nature as well as an Atom Publishing Protocol APP or other protocol that is specifically designed to conform to Representational State Transfer REST Architecture principles.

The Web 2.0 clients can be any client capable of interfacing with a Web 2.0 server . For example the clients can include a Web or voice browser as well as any other type of interface which executes upon a computing device. The computing device can include a mobile telephone a mobile computer a laptop a media player a desktop computer a two way radio a line based phone and the like. Unlike conventional speech clients the clients need not have a speech specific interface and instead only require a standard Web 2.0 interface. That is there are no assumptions regarding the client other than an ability to communicate with a Web 2.0 server using Web 2.0 conventions.

The Web 2.0 servers can be any server that provides Web 2.0 content to clients and that provides speech processing capabilities through the Web 2.0 for voice system . The Web 2.0 servers can include a WIKI server a BLOG server a MASHUP server a FOLKSONOMY server a social networking server and any other Web 2.0 server .

The Web 2.0 for voice system can utilize Web 2.0 concepts to provide speech capabilities. A server side interface is established between the voice system and a set of Web 2.0 servers . Available speech resources can be introspected and discovered via introspection documents which are one of the Web 2.0 items . Introspection can be in accordance with the APP specification or a similar protocol. The ability for dynamic configuration and installation is exposed to the servers via the introspection document.

That is access to Web 2.0 for voice system can be through a Web 2.0 server that allows users e.g. clients to provide their own customizations personalizations. Appreciably use of the APP opens up the application interface to speech resources using Web 2.0 JAVA 2 ENTERPRISE EDITION J2EE WEBSPHERE APPLICATION SERVER WAS and other conventions rather than being restricted to protocols such as media resource control protocol MRCP real time streaming protocol RTSP or real time protocol RTP .

The Web 2.0 for voice system is an extremely flexible solution that permits users of clients to customize numerous speech processing elements. Customizable speech processing elements can include speech resource availability request characteristics result characteristics media characteristics and the like. Speech resource availability can indicate whether a specific type of resource e.g. ASR TTS speaker identification and verification SIV VoiceXML interpreter is available. Request characteristics can refer to characteristics such as language grammar voice attributes gender rate of speech and the like. The result characteristics can specify whether results are to be delivered synchronously or asynchronously. Result characteristics can alternatively indicate whether a listener for callback is to be supplied with results. Media characteristics can include input and output characteristics which can vary from a URI reference to an RTP stream. The media characteristics can specify a codec e.g. G711 a sample rate e.g. 8 KHz to 22 KHz and the like. In one configuration the speech engines can be provided from a J2EE environment such as a WAS environment. This environment can conform to a J2EE Connector Architecture JCA .

In one embodiment a set of additional facades can be utilized on top of Web 2.0 protocols to provide additional interface and protocol options e.g. MRCP RTSP RTP Session Initiation Protocol SIP etc. to the Web 2.0 for voice system . Use of facades can enable legacy access use of the Web 2.0 for voice system . The facades can be designed to segment the protocol from underlying details so that characteristics of the facade do not bleed through to speech implementation details. Functions such as the WAS 6.1 channel framework or a JCA container can be used to plug in a protocol which is not native to the J2EE environment . The media component of the container can be used to handle media storage delivery and format conversions as necessary. Facades can be used for asynchronous or synchronous protocols .

In the system a browser can communicate with WIKI server via a REST ATOM based protocol. The WIKI server can communicate with system via a REST ATOM based protocol.

The WIKI server can include a data store in which speech enabled applications are stored. In one embodiment the speech enabled applications can be written in a WIKI syntax contained in an APP format. The contents of a speech enabled application can be accessed using editor . The editor can be a standard WIKI editor having a voice plug in or extensions .

The transformer can convert WIKI syntax into standard markup for browsers. In one embodiment the transformer can be an extension of a conventional transformer that supports HTML and XML. The extended transformer can be enhanced to handle JavaScript such as AJAX. For example resource links of application can be converted into AJAX functions by the transformer having an AJAX plug in . The transformer can also include a VoiceXML plug in which generates VoiceXML markup for voice only clients.

Each of the speech enabled WIKI applications can be organized in an APP based format as shown by WIKI application . The application includes an introspection document and a link to an entries collection and a resource collection . Each of these collections and can be linked to other collections . For example entry collection can be a collection of WIKI pages which are linked to WIKI page sections collections . The resource collection can include speech processing resources which are linked to resource specifics collection .

The present invention may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present invention may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present invention also may be embedded in a computer program product which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

This invention may be embodied in other forms without departing from the spirit or essential attributes thereof. Accordingly reference should be made to the following claims rather than to the foregoing specification as indicating the scope of the invention.

