---

title: Gantry robotics system and related material transport for contour crafting
abstract: Apparatus and methods are disclosed that are useful for robotic gantry systems that are lightweight while at the same time offering rigidity or stiffness for implementation in Contour Crafting construction and material delivery techniques. The present disclosure is directed to robotic gantry system and material transport apparatus that use of very light structural members that have sufficient compressive strength, but which may otherwise be weak in the presence of bending forces, in conjunction with cables that provide stiffness against bending. Use of such cables provides needed tension while at the same time allowing the robotic gantry system to be very light compared to solid structures, e.g., those with I-beams, etc. Material delivery systems including passive articulated arms are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08029710&OS=08029710&RS=08029710
owner: University of Southern California
number: 08029710
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071102
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 864 293 entitled Gantry Robotics System and Related Material Transport for Contour Crafting filed Nov. 3 2006 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. N000140510850 awarded by the Office of Naval Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Constructing homes offices boats and other structures has an ancient heritage. Despite all of the centuries of development however there can be difficulties and problems.

Construction is usually very labor intensive. Even a modest size structure usually requires the efforts of numerous individuals. This can be very costly. Simultaneously using the time of numerous individuals in an efficient manner can also be challenging.

The results of the construction effort can also be inconsistent. The appearance and quality of one structure can vary from another built from the same design. This can be caused by differences in the skills efforts supervision and techniques employed by those that work on the structures.

Construction may also result in wasted material. For example when wood is used standard off the shelf lengths must often be cut to meet design requirements resulting in waste. Construction using manual labor can also be very time consuming requiring months and in some instances years to complete. Construction can also be hazardous. Many construction workers are killed or seriously injured at construction sites including about 500 000 in the United States alone.

Robotic systems have been used for Contour Crafting construction techniques e.g. those in which curable cementitious fluids are applied in contours for a building layout structure.

One robotic approach has used a gantry structure. Because of cost speed of motion ease of transport and erection at site safety and energy conservation it is important for the gantry to be as light as possible. Design of light weight large gantries has been seen as a challenge for applications that require accuracy. Moreover large size results in flexing of structural members the increase in stiffness of which usually results in added weight given a material aluminum steel composites etc. for the members. Also material delivery to the nozzle of such gantry systems which move in a large volume in the 3D space have proven to be difficult to implement. Furthermore delivery of the material to the nozzle given the localized motions of the nozzle rotation and deflections can also present significant challenges.

What is needed therefore are robotic systems that are lightweight while at the same time offering pronounced rigidity or stiffness for implementation in Contour Crafting construction and material delivery techniques.

The present disclosure addresses the shortcomings noted for the prior art by presenting techniques e.g. apparatus and methods useful for robotic gantry systems that are lightweight while at the same time offering pronounced rigidity or stiffness for moving a fluid delivery nozzle in desired motions within a given volume such as for implementation in Contour Crafting construction and material delivery techniques.

The present disclosure is directed to robotic gantry system and material transport apparatus that use of very light structural members that have sufficient compressive strength but which may otherwise be weak in the presence of bending forces in conjunction with cables that provide stiffness against bending. Use of such cables provides needed tension while at the same time allowing the robotic gantry system to be very light compared to solid structures e.g. those with I beams etc.

Various techniques useful in conjunction with the subject matter of the present application are described in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 733 451 entitled Material Delivery Approaches for Contour Crafting filed Nov. 4 2005 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 820 046 entitled Accumulated Design for Cementitious Material Delivery filed Jul. 21 2006. The entire content of both of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.

Additional useful techniques are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 566 027 entitled Material Delivery System Using Decoupling Accumulator Behrokh Khoshnevis Inventor filed Nov. 2 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 556 048 entitled Dry Material Transport and Extrusion filed Nov. 2 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 864 060 entitled Metering and Pumping Devices filed Nov. 2 2006. The entire content of all of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.

Additional useful techniques are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 760 963 entitled Multi Nozzle Assembly for Extrusion of Wall filed Jan. 20 2004 which claims priority to and incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 441 572 entitled Automated Construction filed Jan. 21 2003. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 040 401 entitled Robotic Systems for Automated Construction filed Jan. 21 2005 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 040 602 entitled Automated Plumbing Wiring and Reinforcement filed Jan. 21 2005 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 040 518 entitled Mixer Extruder Assembly filed Jan. 21 2005 all three of which claim priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 537 756 entitled Automated Construction Using Extrusion filed Jan. 20 2004. This application is also related to the following U.S. Provisional Applications Ser. No. 60 730 560 entitled Contour Crafting Nozzle and Features for Fabrication of Hollow Structures filed Oct. 26 2005 Ser. No. 60 730 418 entitled Deployable Contour Crafting Machine filed Oct. 26 2006 Ser. No. 60 744 483 entitled Compliant Low Profile Non Protruding and Genderless Docking System for Robotic Modules filed Apr. 7 2006 and Ser. No. 60 807 867 entitled Lifting and Emptying System for Bagged Materials filed Jul. 20 2006. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 741 entitled Deployable Contour Crafting filed Oct. 25 2006 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 552 885 entitled Extruded Wall with Rib Like Interior filed Oct. 25 2006. The entire content of all of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.

Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be understood upon reading and understanding the detailed description of exemplary embodiments described herein in conjunction with reference to the drawings.

While certain embodiments are depicted in the drawings one skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments depicted are illustrative and that variations of those shown as well as other embodiments described herein may be envisioned and practiced within the scope of the present disclosure.

The present disclosure is directed to robotic gantry system and material transport apparatus that use very light structural members that have sufficient compressive strength but which may otherwise be weak in the presence of bending forces in conjunction with cables that provide stiffness against bending. Use of such cables provides needed tension while at the same time allowing the robotic gantry system to be very light compared to solid structures e.g. those with I beams etc.

As shown in the two columns are each supported by two cables that restrict the possible deflection of the columns in the X axis upon highly accelerated decelerated motion or rapid change of direction along this axis. Two square structures and are on each end of the bridge. The triangular structure in the middle of the bridge transfers the cable tensile forces to the bridge thereby adding significantly to its stability.

The gantry system has three degrees of freedom in direction of X along the rails in direction of Y along the bridge and in direction of Z along the two vertical columns . By providing such three dimensional movement under the control of an appropriate motion controller the gantry system can place a fluid delivery nozzle not shown at a desired location in a volume of space for constructing a structure. In exemplary embodiments Contour Crafting techniques and or nozzles as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 153 454 noted previously and incorporated herein by reference may be used.

A special feature of gantry system is that it does not explicitly have a Z axis. The movement in the vertical direction is achieved by the elevation and lowering of the entire bridge . This arrangement has several advantages most notably it has the added stiffness that would be difficult to achieve using prior art designs e.g. a commonly used vertical mast that rides on the bridge moving the nozzle along its length.

As described previously it is often difficult to maintain stiffness for such a mast structure. Also if the space along he height is limited such as a factory for building prefab houses or components then the mast would need to be telescopic in structure which would add significantly to the machine complexity cost and inaccuracy that could only be remedied by expensive linear bearings and excessive motion transfer components.

As shown in the movement in the X direction can be provided by two servo motors such as motor in each exerting linear force through a suitable arrangement e.g. a rack and pinion arrangement. Each motor is vertically mounted at the base of each vertical column which ride on either groove or linear bearings or other sliding mechanisms. Two bearings that run inside the U channel under the rail e.g. prevent the columns from being lifted which could otherwise happen when sudden change of direction or start and stop take pace.

The two motors can be synchronized through a master slave protocol implemented by a main controller. In such an arrangement the slave motor can be moved each time by the magnitude generated as feed back by the encoder signal of the master motor. To prevent out of sync situation during power shut down the X motors can be equipped with electro mechanical brakes not shown that can be automatically activated when power is disconnected. Hence the X motors can be prevented from accidentally being moved out of their parked location by an external force.

Referring now to movement along the Y direction is made possible by means of a timing belt mechanism that is driven by a third servo motor in behind the square structure . For compactness purpose the motor can utilize a right angle 90 degree shaft conversion gearhead. Note that the belt drives the cart that holds the nozzle assembly not shown under the bridge .

To neutralize or mitigate the effects of the momentum of the mass of the cart assembly a counter mass can be attached to the upper part of the timing belt. The counter mass can ride on top of the bridge and always moves in the opposite direction of the cart assembly . This arrangement prevents side forces that could deflect the entire structure in the direction of the Y axis upon sudden motions or change of directions. Using this arrangement the columns do not need to be stiffened in the Y direction. This reduces the overall width of the machine .

Movement along Z direction is provided by the motor shown in . This motor which may also be equipped with a right angle gearhead can drive two cable spools shown as in .

To prevent the possibility of a sudden fall of the bridge at the time of power shut down or failure the driving motor may be equipped with an electro mechanical brake which activates when electricity is cut off from the motor. An alternative approach would be the use of a worm gear for the Z motor. So called worm gears cannot be back driven hence in the event of power loss the gear inherently prevents the movement of the bridge assembly.

In exemplary embodiments two rack and pinion sets can be used instead of the cable approach shown in one on each vertical Z axis column. For such embodiments both pinions may be driven by the same shaft driven by a single servo motor. Alternatively the pinion of each set may be driven by a servo motor. The two servo motors would be synchronized in the like manner as in the X axis explained earlier i.e. a master slave configuration .

The sequence of demonstrates the functions of each set of cables used in the particular embodiment shown in . For the purpose of clarification each set of cable is described incrementally.

The cable arrangement shown in including cables is used to provide stiffness against rotation of the gantry bridge due to the inertia of the metering devices and nozzle assembly that is mounted under the bridge. The imbalance of the mass on top and bottom of the bridge would result in forces that tend to rotate the bridge upon acceleration and deceleration along the X axis. The triangular structure in the middle of the bridge transfers the cable tensile forces to the bridge thereby adding significantly to its stability.

The cable arrangement shown in including cables serve to prevent the bridge from bending in the vertical direction. Note that the cables facing each other from opposite directions along the length of the bridge overlap over a segment of the bridge. If this overlap does not exist the bridge could still bend along the segment between the two ends of the cable that are connected to the middle region of the bridge.

In cables compensate for all the tensile forces of the aforementioned cables shown in above the bridge . There are two such cables one on each side of the bridge.

Note that in this arrangement the only compressive force is supplied by the bridge structural member. The rest of the forces are all tensile and provided by the various cables. The tension in each of the cables is accurately adjustable. A systematic procedure must be followed when tightening the cables so that true alignment is achieved. The main indicator of alignment is the perpendicularity of the square frames to the bridge.

As pointed out earlier the gantry system provides only three directions of motion to the fluid delivery nozzle. Rotation motion is preferable however for the fluid delivery nozzle to build various geometrical features such as corners curves etc. . Given that cementitious materials used by fluid delivery often require fairly rigid and thick hoses that are hard to wind around the nozzle upon rotation a mechanism is preferably used that will not need excessive rotation forces and can operate in a relatively small volume.

In exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure a rotary union such as shown in may be used for such a purpose. A rotary union can receive a fluid in its inlet and direct it through a pipe that can be rotated by an indefinite number of degrees. In certain exemplary embodiments a Deublin Rotary Union made available by Deublin Company 2050 Norman Drive West Waukegan IL 60085 USA.

In the embodiments shown two metering devices are used one for the outside orifices of the fluid delivery nozzle and another for its internal orifice. In other embodiments a different number of metering devices including just one may be used moreover any suitable metering device may be used.

Exemplary embodiments can utilize metering and pumping devices as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 933 985 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 574 925 entitled Metering and Pumping Devices filed Nov. 2 2007 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 864 060 entitled Metering and Pumping Devices filed Nov. 2 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 864 291 entitled Metering and Pumping Devices filed Nov. 3 2006 the entire contents of all of which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

As was previously described concerning the material hose may be directed through the same cable tracks that connect the motors and sensors such as end of limit switches . A single material hose may be connected to the inlet of the rotary union  mounted on the nozzle assembly cart platform . The single flow may then be divided into two each entering a metering device the outlets of which are connected to the inlets of the fluid delivery nozzle.

As shown in a robotic manipulator may be installed on a gantry bridge that could move on the bridge jointly with or independently of a nozzle assembly . The manipulator may be used for placing reinforcement plumbing electrical or other modules inside the structure as it is constructed. In exemplary embodiments a tray may be used as a source of the modules and may be placed at one end of the gantry work envelope as shown. Such a tray may be elevated by its own independent motorized system each time the gantry bridge is elevated such that the tray always stays at an elevation that would make the modules accessible to the robotic manipulator .

The articulated arm A C could be mounted on an adjacent wall or on its own independent vertical truss which could be installed at a corner of the work envelope of the robot e.g. the North East corner . The arm may have a desired number of segments e.g. three segments A B C that are hinged together. These segments can collectively direct the hose from the material source to the nozzle on the robotic gantry system e.g. system of .

Segment A is hinged at H1 to the vertical truss and can swing in a horizontal plane. This segment can be made of a truss to resist bending as well as torsion forces exerted by Segment B. To assist the structure in resisting bending forces a cable may be used. In the embodiment shown attached to the end of segment A is segment B which also swings in the horizontal plane only around the hinge shown as H2. Finally the end of segment B is attached by means of a universal joint which allows swinging sideways as well as up and down to segment C.

For the embodiment of the articulated arm moves passively by the force of the robot however the major portion of the weight of the material hose is carried by segments A and B of the arm. The only weight exerted on the robot e.g. system of is a portion of the weight of segment C and a portion of the weight of the hose segment that is placed on segment C. Note that for the sake of clarity the material hose is not drawn in the .

While certain embodiments have been described herein it will be understood by one skilled in the art that the methods systems and apparatus of the present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit thereof.

Accordingly the embodiments described herein and as claimed in the attached claims are to be considered in all respects as illustrative of the present disclosure and not restrictive.

