---

title: Method for detecting a broad class of signals in Gaussian noise using higher order statistics in both time and frequency domains
abstract: An algorithm to detect a broad class of signals in Gaussian noise using higher-order statistics. The algorithm detects a number of different signal types. The signals may be in the base-band or the pass-band, single-carrier or multi-carrier, frequency hopping or non-hopping, broad-pulse or narrow-pulse etc. In a typical setting this algorithm provides an error rate of 3/100 at a signal to noise ratio of 0 dB. This algorithm gives the time frequency detection ratio that may be used to determine if the detected signal falls in Class Single-Carrier of Class Multi-Carrier. Additionally this algorithm may be used for a number of different applications such as multiple signal identification, finding the basis functions of the received signal and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08161089&OS=08161089&RS=08161089
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08161089
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070618
---
This application claims rights under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Application Ser. No. 60 814 367 filed Jun. 16 2006 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. W15P7T 05 C P033 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Administration DARPA . The United States Government has certain rights in this invention.

This invention relates to signal processing and more particularly to algorithms for use in detecting a broad class of signals in Gaussian noise using higher order statistics.

As telecommunications equipment evolves in capability and complexity and multiple input and multiple output MIMO systems push the system throughput it is not going to be too long before we start seeing cognitive radios in the marketplace as is disclosed in J. Mitola Cognitive Radio An Integrated Agent Architecture for Software Defined Radio Ph. D. Thesis Royal Institute of Technology Sweden Spring 2000 and S. Haykin Cognitive Radio Brain Empowered Wireless Communications IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun. vol. 23 no. 2 pp. 201 220 February 2005 the contents all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Cognitive radios will help not just the commercial systems but the military communication systems as well by doing away with the need for comprehensive frequency planning. In fact a cognitive radio would be capable of sensing its environment making decisions on the types of signals present learning the patterns and choosing the best possible method of transmitting the information. They would be situation aware and capable of making decisions to ensure error free and smooth transfer of bits between the users. Cognitive radios will be based on software defined radio SDR platforms and will try to understand not only what the users want but also what the surrounding environment can provide. The first step for any cognitive radio will be to understand the surrounding environment and to detect the ambient signals that are present. A typical procedure is to collect the signal from the surrounding environment and to identify whether it represents some meaningful information or it is just noise.

A need therefore exists for an improved algorithm for use in detecting a broad class of signals in Gaussian noise using higher order statistics.

The present invention addresses this first step of signal detection in presence of additive white Gaussian noise AWGN using higher order statistics HOS . We then provide several different applications where our algorithm may be used along with the results on real time over the air collected test waveforms. The prior art discusses work on signal detection in AWGN using HOS as qualifiers as is disclosed in B. M. Sadler G. B. Giannakis and K. S. Lii Estimation and Detection in NonGaussian Noise Using Higher Order Statistics IEEE Trans. Signal Processing vol. 42 no. 10 pp. 27292741 October 1994 and G. B. Giannakis and M. Tsatsanis A Unifying Maximum Likelihood View of Cumulant and Polyspectral Measures for Non Gaussian Signal Classification and Estimation IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory vol. 38 no. 2 pp. 386 406 March 1992 the contents all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Our proposed algorithm however is extremely efficient and simple to implement and it may be used to detect a broad class of signal types such as base band pass band single carrier multi carrier frequency hopping non frequency hopping broadband narrow band broad pulse narrow pulse etc. Our signal detection algorithm performs well at low signal to noise ratio SNR and based on system requirements for tolerable probability of detection PD and probability of false alarms PFA it is possible to tailor the algorithm performance by altering a few parameters. Additionally this algorithm gives the time frequency detection ratio TFDR which may be used to determine if the detected signal falls in Class Single Carrier of Class Multi Carrier. Finally we describe some applications such as multiple signal identification and finding the basis functions for the received signal where this algorithm may be used effectively.

The idea for this algorithm comes from a well known fact that the higher order cumulants for a Gaussian process are zero as is disclosed in K. S. Shanmugan and A. M. Breipohl Random Signals Detection Estimation and Data Analysis John Wiley Sons New York 1988 J. M. Mendel Tutorial on Higher Order Statistics Spectra in Signal Processing and Systems Theory Theoretical Results and Some Applications IEEE Trans. Signal Processing vol. 79 no. 3 pp. 278305 March 1991 and C. L. Nikias and J. M. Mendel Signal Processing with Higher Order Spectra IEEE J. Select. Areas Commun. pp. 10 37 July 1993 the contents all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Cumulants are defined as the multiplicative coefficients for each term of the Taylor series expansion of the logarithm of the characteristic function. The characteristic function of of a random variable X is defined as exp 1 where j square root over 4 . The natural logarithm of the characteristic function is defined as the cumulant generating function log 2 or in other words exp 3 Expanding both sides of the equation in a series form results in the following equality.

Since we need to extract these statistics of the random process from the collected waveforms after sampling the waveforms we divide them into segments of length N and place them in vectors x. We then estimate the higher order moments for each of the segments using the following approximation

Since the cumulants are computed from the estimates of the moments for every segment of duration N the longer the segment better are the statistics and better the estimation. However in practice it is not possible to keep N to be extremely large and it is limited by the duty cycle of the signal itself and the rate at which the signal changes. This means that even if the received waveform belongs to Class Noise it is possible that the cumulants may be non zero. Hence instead of making a hard decision we define a probability Pthat a certain segment belongs to the Class Signal. We also define a threshold which when exceeded increases the probability that the received waveform falls into Class Signal and when not decreases the same. The algorithm for this is as follows 

Let R be the number of cumulants of the order greater than two available for computation and choose some 0

The parameter is used to control the Pand the . At low values of Pis high and Pis low whereas as increases Pfalls and Pincreases. For most cognitive radio applications higher false alarms are tolerable as long all the signals that are present are detected accurately.

Many types of information bearing signals show a Gaussian distribution in the time domain whereas in the frequency domain they are non Gaussian. For example the amplitude distribution of a direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS signal in the time domain is non Gaussian. On the other hand the amplitude distribution of the multi carrier signal samples formed as a result of orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM in the time domain is Gaussian but the distribution of its complex samples in the frequency domain is not. Hence in order to be able to detect all these signal types we apply the algorithm in time as well as in the frequency domains as shown in . The received waveform samples are divided into segments of length N and are sent to two different branches. One detects the presence of the signal in the time domain and the other in the frequency domain. Frequency domain detection is performed by first taking Fourier transform of each of the segments as

The TFDR as the name suggests denotes the ratio of the number of segments detected in the time domain to the number of segments detected in the frequency domain NTD over a particular length of time. Hence

Once it is known that the received waveform belongs to Class Signal it is useful to find out how many different signal types are present in it. M. C. Dogan and J. M. Mendel Single Sensor Detection and Classification of Multiple Sources by Higher Order Spectra IEE Proceedings F vol. 140 no. 6 pp. 1451 1458 December 1993 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference discloses the use of the tri spectrum of the received waveform. The tri spectrum is projected onto 2 Dimensions and sampled to form a matrix. The singular value decomposition SVD is then applied to find out the dominant components. The number of significant singular values determines the number of signal types present in the received waveform. We apply a similar method for our case. However instead of tri spectrum we obtain a compressed spectrogram of the signal only segments. If higher computation power is available then one may use the tri spectrum instead. The compressed spectrogram of the signal only segments forms a matrix X. We then take the SVD of this compressed spectrogram and find out the number of dominant singular values in it which gives us the number of different signal types that are present in the signal. As described above the term compressed spectrogram describes a spectrogram of the signal only segments of a received waveform.

Basis functions of the received signals could provide us with important information about the signal itself and what constitutes it. For example it would be important to know the spreading sequence given that the received signal is formed using code division multiplexing CDMA . In order to find the basis functions of the received signal the SVD of the signal only matrix is obtained. However rather than choosing the length of the columns of the matrix arbitrarily some prior synchronization is done on the received waveform to find the underlying periodicity. This estimate of the periodicity in the waveform is used to determine the number of samples in each column of a synchronized signal only matrix X. as shown in . Then the SVD of this synchronized signal only matrix is obtained and the vector corresponding to various principal singular values determine the basis functions of the received signal.

This section explains the simulation and experimental results for the proposed signal detection algorithm and its applications. shows the probability of error in correct classification of a segment of the received waveform versus the average SNR. The direct sequence spread spectrum DSSS waveforms confirming to the IEEE 802.11b Standard as is disclosed in IEEE Standard 802.11g 2003 Part 11 Wireless LAN Medium Access Control MAC and Physical Layer PHY Specifications Higher speed Physical Layer Extension in the 2.4 GHz Band. IEEE Std. 802.11 2003 were generated and transmitted over an AWGN channel. The chips at the receiver were over sampled by a factor of eight and an average energy in the received samples for the entire data record was used to compute the signal energy. An appropriate noise was added to the received samples. The figure shows the effect of choosing different segment lengths N and different values of the threshold coefficient on the probability of error. We calculated the cumulants till the 6th order and hence R for our case was 4. The segment length N was chosen to be of a power of 2 in order to efficiently compute its fast Fourier transform FFT . Larger the value of N more accurate are the estimates of the cumulants and lower are the error floors in the probability curves. On the other hand the value of may be used to move the curves sideways. Lower value of results in a lower threshold and hence lower P. Higher values of results in higher Pand lower P. Based on the curves obtained we choose 2 for all our experiments for over the air collected test data.

Finally shows the results of identifying the basis functions for the received signal as explained in III C. The over the air collected IEEE 802.11b waveforms were used to find the basis function. The waveform shown corresponds to the first singular value of SVD of the time synchronized signal only matrix. The IEEE 802.11b waveforms use the spreading sequence given by 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 and as can be seen in the figure we can clearly identify this spreading sequence as an output of our finding the basis functions algorithms.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that an algorithm has been disclosed that detects a broad class of signals in Gaussian noise using higher order statistics. The algorithm was able to detect a number of different signal types. In a typical setting this algorithm provided an error rate of 3 100 at a signal to noise ratio of 0 dB. This algorithm gave the time frequency detection ratio which was used to determine if the detected signal fell in Class Single Carrier of Class Multi Carrier. Additionally we showed how this algorithm may be used in applications such as signal identification and finding the basis functions of the received signals.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications or additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the recitation of the appended claims.

