---

title: Converged logical and physical security
abstract: A security management system that includes a hierarchical security platform, converged IT and physical security management, unified credentialing, credential issuance and incident(s) management. An exemplary aspect of the invention also relates to physical and logical security management and information technology/network security management, with a credential issuance and integrity checking system as well as associated readers and printers of the credential. Still further aspects of the invention relate to obtaining, assembling and analyzing one or more of data, video information, image information, biometric information, sensor information, terrorist information, profile information, and/or other types of information to provide a comprehensive platform for all aspects of security management. A toolkit is also provided that allows complete management, integration, scalability, interoperability and centralized control of all aspects of security including personnel credentialing, personnel management, personnel tracking, task management, security system integration, security information exchange and scalability.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08108914&OS=08108914&RS=08108914
owner: Vetrix, LLC
number: 08108914
owner_city: Dacono
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070425
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Patent Application No. 60 794 529 filed Apr. 25 2006 entitled Emergency Responder Security System which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Exemplary aspects of this invention relate to security. More specific aspects of the invention relate to security management a hierarchical security platform converged IT and physical security management unified credentialing credential issuance and incident s event management.

The exemplary systems discussed herein are in general directed toward security and security management. An exemplary aspect of the invention relates to physical security management and information technology network security management. Additional aspects of the invention relate to a credential issuance and integrity checking systems as well as associated readers and printers of the credential certificate and electronic personalization. Still further aspects of the invention relate to obtaining assembling and analyzing one or more of data video information image information biometric information sensor information alarm information perimeter information terrorist information profile information and or other types of information to provide a comprehensive platform for all aspects of security management. Still further aspects of the invention relate to providing a scalable toolkit that allows complete management integration interoperability and centralized control and monitoring of all aspects of security including personnel credentialing personnel management personnel tracking task management equipment management personnel tracking security system integration and security information exchange.

The exemplary IT network and physical security management system can be architected for open standards and its operability designed for modularity and scalability and can be extendable across a spectrum of security needs and adaptable to both legacy and upcoming technologies. The exemplary IT network and physical security management system can also be networked with other IT network and physical security management system s to allow for widespread security management for example during one or more non collocated incidents that may be one or more of international federal tribal state city or local in nature.

Supporting multi function contact and contactless smart card token smart chip embedded implanted chip user validation the exemplary system works with existing collocated and distributed facility environments and optionally supports various technologies including fingerprint recognition facial recognition iris scanning biometrics geographic information system information feeds and the like. Blending for example video surveillance and hazardous environmental sensors the exemplary system can be adapted to interface with building control systems alarm systems existing card readers annunciators cameras and video cameras enterprise IT security systems enterprise hardwired or wireless security systems alarm systems and general any security system. The exemplary system allows integration into even the most complex mission critical enterprise IT security infrastructures through for example standard protocols resulting in improved situational awareness ability to correlate events and control responses in real time reduced administration overhead an improved audit and forensic capabilities.

The IT network and physical security management system cooperates with the Incident Management Parameter Access Control and Tracking IMPACT family of solutions which provide access control and identity management for deployment by for example one or more of Federal State local and tribal governments. The IMPACT family of solutions can cooperate with IT network and physical security management systems to allow control of physical and IT access using for example a unified credential. The system enables for example incident command to have a reliable real time emergency management hub that brings together all the assets and resources into a field environment including for example personnel management and tracking video surveillance and hazardous environment sensors wireless communications and backend communications to Federal State and or regional resources. Various card issuance and reading systems are also supported as well as manufacturers of multi technology smart cards such as contact or contact less smart cards smart chips and embedded implanted chips. The IMPACT family of solutions can be configured for example based on the type of incident or environment into which it is deployed. For example the critical infrastructure elements discussed herein can each have a specific IMPACT solution that includes specific modules interfaces templates workflows and processes or sub processes pre configured for deployment.

The exemplary system supports both a multi function contact and contactless smart card token smart chip embedded chip implanted chip user validation and also works with a variety of incident scenarios and climatic environments.

The exemplary system supports both a multi function contact and contactless smart chip user validation and also works with a variety of incident scenarios and climatic environments.

The exemplary system supports both a multi function contact and contactless embedded implanted chip user validation and also works with a variety of incident scenarios and climatic environments.

As examples the systems described herein can be used for HSPD compliance such as HSPD 5 HSPD 7 and HSPD 12. There is a number of critical infrastructure and key resource CI KR sectors in which the systems described herein can be used or defined to address any of the areas covered under these guidelines.

Exemplary non limiting environments include chemical drinking water and wastewater treatment systems energy power facilities electrical grid oil gas dams commercial nuclear reactors water sectors process manufacturing emergency services public health and healthcare continuity of government government facilities defense facilities defense industrial base information technology telecommunications converged facilities national monuments and icons postal and shipping banking and finance commercial facilities materials and waste transportation systems port security aviation security cargo cruise ships trains mass transit Intermodal food and agriculture military first responders police fire and OSHA Compliance Authentication tracking of machine use . However in general the systems disclosed herein can be implemented in any environment s .

As an example in a national city based incident an ID is used to derive access to all City National Resources and can include all HSPD 7 and more. For example access can be provided to water power facilities transportation city buildings and the like. In this example the 4th factor of authentication which is Location Based in time Global ZULU GMT can be supported. Additionally a GUM and or a UUID which is a universal or Global unique Identifier can also use certificates including but not limited to PKI PKCS etc. GUIDs UUIDs and Certificates can be used in varying ways as any one item can define identity. Use can be cumulative stand alone or a process can select the preferred method for identity processes. Chip card Implant has sectors that only allow Authorized Writer Readers Users to allow for Multi use and Multi Administrators. Built in Fail safe options include a running agent that identified debuggers heap readers dis assemblers and other reverse engineering processes on the fly. Applications can then be shut down into its stored encrypted state. In case of additional tampering after a certain threshold of code has been tampered with Artificial Intelligence M processes rewrite the code back to the original code base last known good configuration and or after so much loss can seal in encrypted container so only for example an authorized factory representative can reopen and or it is destroyed. In addition the software and hardware case can be configured to scramble drive contents upon compromise. This is useful in cases where classified data may sit on a device.

Optional configurations include BOOT Choice on start up to include but not limited to evacuation conditions and or Bomb scenario and or Ingress egress of any area an Artificial Intelligent system a self healing network and systems component Attendance and HR the embedded Chip could be in Body and or hand and have multiple administrators for use in a single ID multi use and multi administrators i.e. where a chip card has sectors that only allow authorized writers readers users to allow multi use and multi administrators to access or update specific partitions sectors HSPD 7 and other applications and all critical infrastructures and any and all additions now and in the future sensors in the ceiling and or roof area in cooperation with GPS and other backend systems can track live movement of an individual and or asset thru space and time perimeter technologies can include but not limited to line of sight satellite fiber drop wire radar microwave seismic sensor beams etc. . . . Perimeter technologies can be applied in a variety of environments to support very specific perimeter control requirements. All data and confidential information can be encrypted at rest and or in transit one exemplary way of encrypting the reader to the security system is by using encrypt and or decrypt chips as an I O board attached to the reader and or the security system.

Cooperation between the exemplary IMPACT family of solutions and the IT network and physical security management system allows interface designs to be built as modules that can be used as a checklist to compile to produce any security product to address all Critical Infrastructures and or any other security systems force protection border control and or need. These as discussed at least include the following modules sensor modules including but not limited to chemical hazardous environmental temperature HVAC physical Security Modules including but not limited to glass break motion detection physical access control magnetic stripe fire Suppression etc. Converged physical and IT security access control is built into one or more of the described systems can include communications module including but not limited to 900 mhz 2.4 mhz satellite microwave 800 MHz HAM radio 802.11 Fiber Optic VOIP CDMA GPRS etc. They also include the identity management aspects of the invention and the mapping module including static internet based real time imagery data based and others the cameras module the behavioral analysis modules the audio and audio analysis modules the EMS modules and the alerting and logging modules.

The security system is an application that converges logical and physical security into a unified process for access control of physical entities and network or other logical entities.

1. Client software provides an interface to an Active Directory structure or an identity management structure also includes Federated Identity Management schema LDAP Light Directory Access Protocol and other schemas for identity information including InfoCard the physical access control structure and allows for configurations of security zones access permissions camera operations alerting logging and other processes that support physical and logical access control. 2. Remote controller is the domain controller containing the primary active directory structure and the controlling operating system. 3. Physical access controllers are devices that provide reader control for physical access. 4. Cameras. 5. Logical control readers that allow for network or system authentication. 6. SQL relational database or object oriented or object relational repository that stores access information user information physical information zone maps and other information related to logical and physical access control. The security system uses active directory SQL and controller based data structures to control physical and logical access. The elements are tied together through processes that integrate active directory a relational database backend and physical controller data structures. Clients that provide for disconnected Access control may also use ADAM a clientized version of active directory that may synchronize to a master active directory structure.

Access control is based on defining identities or grouping identities based on Roles and then assigning them to security zones networked based or system based objects. An object can be a file or other element stored in a file system database etc. . . . An identity is defined by creating a new identity and setting different configuration options that relate to networks systems and or physical access control to include hours of access security zones accessible domains etc. . . . Logical attributes are stored within the active directory structure while physical attributes are stored within the controller data structure and other attributes that bridge both are stored in the relational data structure. Services tie all three together in a transactional process that guarantees identity update parameters adding or provisioning modifying privileges and termination or revocation . Identities are tracked through the use of GUIDs UUIDs and or certificates. This structure allows for the best data integrity and reliability as well as maintaining separation of duties between physical controllers and logical controllers.

When the security system is installed the device identifies the controlling aspects of the logical networks and takes the role as the master controller. Identity updates will occur to the device through active directory and active directory extensions. The other controller then act as authentication controllers for the network. CRITSEC also conducts a search and discovers physical control devices systems and logical network elements and takes control of those as well. Updates that are applied to an identity are transacted through a service that acts as a broker between active directory the physical controller and the relational database.

The relational structure is implemented in a way that provides for data mapping as opposed to hard defined data structures. This allows user of the CRITSEC system to use a variety of data backends to use CRITSEC with to include MS SQL Oracle MySQL and other.

Supervisory Control And Data Acquisition SCADA is a remote control process that controls infrastructure such as water or power etc. . . . There s a client that communicates with a control device that controls some aspect of a process. The exemplary compontentry associated with the SCADA embodiment includes Client software that provides an interface to a variety of controllers. SCADA software secures SCADA operational processes through an enhanced SCADA interface. Controllers and remote terminal units are for example devices that monitor and open or shut valves or perform some other function that is required to maintain certain process attributes. A controlled device is for example a valve or other device that has impact over a controlled process. The security system integrates logical and physical access control to SCADA networks. SCADA has been over the years inherently weak when it comes to access controls and security. SCADA security addresses this by integrating the SCADA network with the security system for controlling physical and logical access to SCADA networks. SCADA security also provides for a more secure interface while allowing SCADA operators to continually monitor processes through a locked for input but functional visible open to monitoring screen. Physical and logical access controls are similar to the other applications and processes described herein. The client software secures the SCADA management process by creating a transparent screen that SCADA operators can use to monitor SCADA processes. Though users can see processes in real time they can t interact with the process until authentication takes place through the security management system. Once authentication takes place then the transparent screen moves to a background process while the SCADA client application takes the foreground process and allows for operator interaction. Alerting takes place through a colored border that flashes at the edge of the border of the screen still allowing the operator to monitor real time actions through the transparent screen.

These and other features and advantages of this invention are described in or are apparent from the following detailed description of the exemplary embodiments.

The exemplary embodiments of this invention will be described in relation to security management. However it should be appreciated that in general the systems and methods of this invention will work equally well for any type of communication system in any environment.

The exemplary systems and methods of this invention will also be described in relation to security management and the components sensors hardware software and data feeds associated therewith. However to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention the following description omits well known structures and devices that may be shown in block diagram form or otherwise summarized.

For purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It should be appreciated however that the present invention may be practiced in a variety of ways beyond the specific details set forth herein.

Furthermore while the exemplary embodiments illustrated herein show the various components of the system collocated it is to be appreciated that the various components of the system can be located at distant portions of a distributed network such as a telecommunications network and or the Internet or within a dedicated secure unsecured and or encrypted system. Thus it should be appreciated that the components of the system can be combined into one or more devices or collocated on a particular node of a distributed network such as a telecommunications network. As will be appreciated from the following description and for reasons of computational efficiency the components of the system can be arranged at any location within a distributed network without affecting the operation of the system. For example the various components and functions associated therewith can be divided between one or more of the described systems can be load balanced between one or more security systems and can be networked between on or more security systems devices or some combination thereof. Similarly one or more functional portions of the system could be distributed between a plurality of geographically separate systems.

Furthermore it should be appreciated that the various links including any communications channels connecting the elements can be wired or wireless links including satellite based link s or any combination thereof or any other known or later developed element s that is capable of supplying and or communicating data to and from the connected elements. The term module as used herein can refer to any known or later developed hardware software firmware or combination thereof that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique. It should also be appreciated that various levels of redundancy and portability can be included with the system as well as a shock mount case for emergency drops to remote locations such as battery back up multi national power supplies recharging capabilities and a plurality of communication options.

While certain embodiments are described in relation to the exemplary credential other options are also available. For example although a uniform visual card design is desirable experience indicates that while the flash pass capabilities are important more crucial is the uniformity of the information programmed into the smart card smart chip embedded implanted chip. The credential issuance system can abstract the desired data into containers or sectors of the credential that are programmed into the smart card chip some with varying degrees of protection for very sensitive data like biometric templates. These credentials certificates are thus immediately usable at the incident site s not within some delayed time period such as 24 hours. Revocation can also be immediate. Interoperability with other standards based cards can be a key architecture principle.

While a standard template can be defined other templates may be added. For example while one jurisdiction may choose to store encrypted fingerprint iris scan hand geometry or facial recognition including any biometric in an encrypted card container another jurisdiction may utilize the same space on the card for emergency medical treatment information. The ability of the credential issuance system to discern the differences between the two card types described is a unique feature that can be enabled as required. Thus different entities can have different permissions to access different portions of one or more containers or sectors of the same card. Highlights of an exemplary credential include 

Write IMPACT is an application that allows for the reading and writing of contact and contactless smart cards.

1. Client software that allows for writing and reading data acquiring biometric data and specifying certifications.

3. Interfacing for smartcards. Write Impact has the capability to write and read contact contactless smartcards that meet a variety of standards to include HSPD 12 Mifare Desfire Smart MX and others.

Due to card storage size and end user requirements a matrixing solution has been developed that allows users to add a large amount of data into limited space on the smartcard chip. The matrix allows for defining a mapping solution from the application to the card s database and vice versa. This allows agencies to define their own data and enter it into the chip of a card while not using the space required to enter that data. An example would be Denver Sheriff Department wants to track certain certifications that they have developed. The exemplary certification is broken down to a 3 or 4 or in general any digit number or lettering scheme that designates that the certification is local that the certification is related to law enforcement that the certification is for SWAT and that the final certification is for level. There is also a 1 digit number that specifies if the user is current not current in retraining or that currency doesn t apply. This schema allows for the storage of much more data on a chip that can be directly referenced through the back end. Other agencies may then map their data in their own way and agency data may be correlated together through a mapping structure so outside agencies have visibility of certifications.

For protecting the credential as illustrated in a shielding credential holder device leverages a magnet to hold a clear cover to a shielding back and can be flipped out with one hand when one needs to enable the contactless signal when presented to a reader to for example open a door. Credential holders that shield contactless emanation from unwanted and or unauthorized reading are current state of the art however convenient usage by an individual when entering a secured facility is somewhat lacking. The illustrated units are designed to feature a clear pocket for the credential that magnetically adheres to a shielding backing. Thus a user is able to confidently display the front of the credential on a lanyard or clipped to clothing knowing that it cannot be read contactlessly in this mode yet easily separate the clear pocket from the backing with one hand to expose the contactless signal when required and allow reading thereof.

The credential issuance system also can cooperate with a module for registrar functionality. Registrar functionality can include a background check fingerprinting and I 9 documentation system tracking of the application process and notification of when the NACI is complete. The ID Management module can include an active directory link revalidation functions date and tracking moves adds changes terminations and the like for an issued credential. The ID management module can also handle the distribution of applications PIN Resets robust member searching functionality and auditing.

In operation an administrator initializes the system by adding the personnel equipment credentials or in general any tangible or intangible that are to be managed. The addition of the managed information can be streamlined through the use of one or more templates designed for specific incidents and or environments. For example when booting the security system the system can query the user as to the type of deployment incident or environment. Based on the user s selection specific GUI s templates and prompts for connections to various types of data feeds can be generated. Once all relevant information pertaining to the managed information is established various pre defined rule sets can be invoked or one or more custom rules created that allow actions to be triggered based on satisfaction of one or more rules. For example if the incident is a fire and the security system is connected to the existing building fire system a pre defined building fire rule set could be selected that allows the security system to monitor heat sensors movement of emergency responders in the building fire sensors video feeds etc.

In addition the security system can monitor the presence of emergency responders into and out of the incident scene. This not only allows to the system to account for the presence and location of personnel but also more routine tasks such as billing management. In the event of an injured emergency responder the system could also automatically forward medical information based on the emergency responder s credential to a hospital to assist with treatment.

The IMPACT family of solutions can also be preconfigured with connectivity escalation routines that allow the security system to contact one or more additional security system based on for example the meeting of one or metrics monitored by the system. For example if explosives or an explosion is detected the security system and forward information related thereto to the federal authorities. Additionally the security system may connect to other security systems to assist in the analysis of trend data in the event of for example widespread terrorist activity.

In another exemplary embodiment the system is not actually deployed to an incident but is used as a full time security monitor for one or more of a facility network computer system. The system can also interface with existing structures such as a school utilizing the appropriate modules allowing control over and monitoring of for example a schools security system. For example the security system can be connected wired or wirelessly by an emergency response team to the school and control all aspects of security including cameras locks access etc.

The Reader button located bellow the Time Zone will group the card readers into logical groups that will be considered one of many zones. The Users button gives you a list of all the users that have been added into the Access Control for quick navigation to a specific user.

The exemplary processes that can b performed by one or more of the modules discussed herein or by one or more modules connected to the security management system are New Record Replication Process Video Processes EMS Processes Mapping Processes Authentication Processes Access Control Document Processes Logging Processes Sensor Processes Support Processes Audio Processes VOIP Processes AI Processes Data Scrubbing Data Scrubbing Trending Prediction Reporting Process and Communications Processes.

The New Record process allows the creation of a new record. This new record can relate to personnel equipment monitors sensors credentials or in general any aspect of security management including both tangible objects personnel and intangibles.

The Replication Process allows both upstream and downstream replication of information. This replication can include filtering to allow for a hierarchy of data flow with for example permissions established such that data stores with lesser permissions have access only to certain portions of data.

The Video Processes as with the other types of data feeds such as audio VOIP etc. are logged in a logging module and preserved in a local data store as well as monitored by the Authentication Processes Access Control Process. Video can be also be streamed from different devices using different transmission protocols to include IP based BNC Web and others.

The EMS Processes is one of several exemplary processes that reflect the various operating environment s into which the systems and methods described herein may be placed. It should be appreciated however that these specific operating environment type processes can be combined with other operating environment type processes as needed and may be dynamically added at any time. For example during boot of the IT Network and Physical Security Management System the environment can be configured through selection of the specific event type s . EMS processes cover all aspects of an incident to at least include personnel equipment org charts situation reports lessons learned scheduling mapping and other related items specific to an event.

The Mapping Processes allows the integration and display of map s into the Network and Physical Security Management System. The Mapping Processes at least includes one or more of GIS real time mapping static mapping overlaying mapping with various sets of data either retrieved input or correlated through AI Processes onto maps that can be made available to a user s .

The Authentication Processes Access Control Authentication includes logical and physical authentication through for example various chip processes to include contact and contactless chips as well as biometrics that may be attached imbedded embedded and or implanted anywhere in the body including the hand and head. Authentication mechanisms also provide for the tracking of incrementing and decrementing values as well as storage of finite values within the authentication medium if a non biogenic authentication template e.g. smartcard is used. Identities can be tracked and authenticated through for example GUID UUID certificate based processes or in general any mechanism locally regionally nationally and internationally. The authentication medium will also allow for in some cases multi user multi administration capabilities. Authentication at both physical and logical layers can include encryption using standard approved methodologies as well as future encryption strategies utilizing for example nano technologies or quantum technologies not only from the controller to the controlling device door reader for example but also from the controlling device to the controller and or other operating system that may act as an intermediary or controller itself. The Authentication Processes allow for multi factored authentication mechanisms to include for example what someone knows what someone has who someone is where a person is through space and time through behavioral analysis as well as other mechanisms. This will allow for authentication of identities groups processes etc. as well as physical devices and information sources.

The Document Processes allows for the creation viewing and modification of secured documents through a data labeling process as well as the management and classification of documents. For example an AI process classifies documents on the fly based on for example certain keywords origin information creator information content or phrasings as well as by the classification authority or creator. Documents identified as secure can be stored in an encrypted format within the database.

The Logging Processes support event correlation through a triage AI process for each entry added to the log. Logsets can be multi record structures where event correlation takes place against a set of log entries that may or may not be similar in nature. Logs can be archived for example at the event level and can be fine tuned to for example periods of time.

The Sensor Processes not only include sensors for environmental characteristics but also include tracking through thermal biologic pressure and other methods provided through a sensor interface.

The Support Processes include failover support self discovery and other system configurations. Support processes also include all processes that provide for systems administration configuration healing alerting balancing or other processes supporting any of the described processes or modules.

The Audio Processes allow for the modeling of various audio characteristics. This can include sound that is audible to the human range or outside the scope of human range.

The VOIP Processes allow VOIP communications over one or more networks to one or more other IMPACT and or IT Network and Physical Security Management System s . VOIP and Conferencing services allow for internal conferencing capabilities. The only requirement is connectivity through any available means. Conferences can be recorded stored and verified in the future.

The AI Processes include rule set fact set fuzzy and neural processes to predict and trend. Intelligent processes include inferencing technology neural processes as well as other multi generation intelligence processes. In terms of intelligent processing there are three layers.

AI Processes allow for human and non human intervention alerting and other modifications to configurations data or other items designated as modifiable on the fly. Expert Systems can attempt to emulate the decision making abilities of a human expert using knowledge facts and inference procedures rules . In some cases other intelligent processes may be used such as neural networking data clumping associative discovery etc. . . . AI processes are designed to find events trends and predict where the data to support that data doesn t appear to exist.

The Trending Prediction Reporting Process can cooperate with the AI Processes to generate trending and or prediction reporting and alerts based on one or more of incident information information feeds activity data trends or in general any information received by the IT Network and Physical Security Management System.

The Communications Processes include any method for communications to include satellite cellular wireless networked encrypted hardened packet or circuit switched or any other communications process or protocol.

The Data Stores house data that can be shared with one or more other data stores. The data stores can store any information relevant to the IMPACT and the IT Network and Physical Security Management Systems as well as credential issuance system and in general any information associated with the systems described herein.

In addition to the above higher level processes sub process operate within the security system. A description of the exemplary sub processes are discussed below.

The Record Management process allows entities identified with administrator privileges to administer records. These records include identity records and administrators can at least add delete or modify identities as well as levels of permission access control etc. and in general any feature associated with a record including the creation modification or deletion of a record.

The Identity Configurations process includes all aspects of an identity account. These includes basic personal information such as name DOB position access control parameters to include access points and hours biometric data etc. . . . An identity is directly correlated to a certificate and a GUID UUID or other unique identifier. These items are used to correlate identities to other sets of information through lookups.

The Access Control process provide for both logical and physical access control solutions to one or more physical areas and or computer computer network or IT based systems.

The Authentication Process determines whether or not an entity has the authority to access and manage records.

The Record Management Process includes the ability to add records delete records modify records as well as provides record navigation and searching functionality.

The Active Directory Process provides standard active directory structures and extended active directory structures. For example in an emergency response scenario the security system is a self contained network whereas in other incident management solutions active directory can be integrated into an existing network structure. In cases where an incident management solution must control access logically the security system can act as the master controller and only make updates to the active directory databases while for example dedicated incident specific incident management controllers will act as authenticating mechanisms thereby reducing the overall load on the IMPACT system.

The Physical Access Control Process controls for example disconnected hand held or other types of credential reading devices that can be updated for example on the fly through wireless wired or by removable media. The devices can first authenticate to one another prior to data updating. In other IMPACT scenario solutions physical reader controllers can be embedded into the IMPACT solution and control physical access by a direct or wireless connection to the terminal reader.

The Motion Detection Process allows for the configuration of the sensitivity of the detection grid in one or more connected video cameras or feeds as well as other options related to motion detection. The motion detection processes can be defined to slew a camera to a certain position if motion enabled cameras are used.

The Snapshot Process allows snapshotting by extracting a single frame from a video stream. Snapshotted graphics can be stored in an encrypted format and checksummed for evidentiary use.

The Streaming Process allows video to be streamed to a user interface within the security system and can be saved in for example a compressed and encrypted format to the data store. Video can also be checksummed for evidentiary use.

The Video Interface Process allows a user to manipulate and view video data. This interface allows also acts as the record management interface that allows user to add delete modify and navigate video records for example with the use of meta data keywords etc.

The Docs Mods Process allows video data stills and in some cases streamed video data to be included into documents that are stored within the data store.

The Camera Control Processes allow camera controlling through motion detection as well as user remote control of any of the cameras associated with the security system.

The Logging Process can support event correlation through the triage of artificial intelligence processes for each entry added to the log. Log sets can be multi record structures where event correlation takes place against a set of log entries that may or may not be similar in nature. Logs can be archived off at the event level and or system level and be fine tuned to periods of time.

The Event Data Process allows management of event data comprising basic information pertaining to an event to include for example incident commander location perimeters zones and event descriptions.

The Situation Reporting Process allows situations taking place during an event to be identified flagged and tracked.

The Org Charting Process provides the ability to create and manage an organizational chart of the incident staffing. Personnel can be selected to fill slots within the organizational structure. Also when an individual is selected to fill a role the role can be cross referenced with certifications data that is tied to personnel. If for example the individual is not certified to fill a role then for example based on an active rule set the incident commander can be informed. An incident commander can also be authorized to override the flag. There can be more than one organizational chart per event.

The Personnel Equipment Certs Process allows one or more of personnel equipment and personnel certifications to be tracked through an event to include for example cost rates use renewal information and other items.

The Package definition Process allows packages to be defined by standard definitions non standard definitions as well as task force definitions. Packages can be requested offered for deployment and in special circumstances be defined on the fly during and at an incident. Packages are normally defined and then pushed to for example a regional and national data store for deployment. Packages can also be requested by various agencies to take part in an event.

The Historics Process allows for the management and creation of lessons learned documents as well as documents generated through an artificial intelligence process that correlates useful information for specific requirements during an incident. This gives event managers access to data and data mining capabilities that may uncover information relevant to the incident s such as trending information. Documents can be correlated from local regional national and or international sources.

The Graphic Layering process allows graphic overlay s to be added to or taken off of a mapping structure. Layers can represent different sets of interpolated data.

The Internet Based Mapping Wrapper Process allows for including access to interne based maps. This provides for example an instant mapping interface that doesn t require any static map files to be carried with the security system. Layers can be added to internet based mapping to represent different sets of data.

The Data Interpolation Process allows taking data from different sources turning that data into coordinate data and then placing it into a graphic layer to be presented through a mapping interface. Data can represent sensor locations boundary locations personnel locations equipment locations or in general data the security system has access to.

The GIS Processing Process allows real time GPS related navigation as well as other GIS related mapping processes. For Example responders can use GPS enabled tracking devices that can be represented in a mapping structure. This is useful for deploying tracking and recalling responders that may be in hot warm cold or all zones etc.

The Graphical Interface Process allows one or more graphic interfaces to be used to manage records as well as provide for option selections and a viewing interface for the mapping modifications.

The Doc Generation Process allows user to create spreadsheets word processing documents flowchart documents graphic documents as well as other document types. These documents can be labeled with a security classification and then encrypted into the data stores where other users with the proper classification can then view the documents. This provides for a secured document access control system that provides security integrity reliability as well as the capability to control document dissemination.

The Classification Process allows classification labels to be added to any information within the system and can add a mandatory layer of security to document control that does not exist in discretionary operating systems that provide for shared access control. Each document can be labeled with a classification and clearance requirement that is tied directly to the data object.

The Sensor Data Parsing Process allows data entering the security system from any information feed such as a sensor feed to be parsed into data that can be represented in a graph series. Parsing can be unique to the sensor type and manufacture. To effectively parse data the manufacturer s data schema can be processed and stored into a retrievable data structure that can be identified on the fly to the sensor.

The Sensor Chart Generation Process allows the representation of sensor data through a graph series. Each graph can hold multiple series and update in real time based for example on parsed data.

The Sensor GUI Interface Process allows a sensor GUI to act as the record management facility as well as the interface for sensor graphs that can depict real time sensor feeds for a variety of sensor types.

The Logging Alerting Services Process are specific to application processes and specific server processes. To configure logging and alerting administrators can select an event type and then apply a rule to the event. Then based for example on the relationship between a metric and the event alarms triggered actions activated alerts sent to one or more individuals entities or groups thereof or the like.

The Identify Facts and Factsets Process allows processing of facts and fact sets that are known or defined facts about an expert domain.

The Apply Fuzzy Definitions Process allows for the application of intelligence to address non linear problems.

The Stream Analysis Process allows for the capability to determine direction and distance of sounds as well as the sound type. Audio streams can be used as alerting features and can be saved in an encrypted format into a data store and checksummed to prove authenticity in the future.

The Audio GUI Process allows an audio GUI s to act as the record management facility as well as the graphic interface that allows users to configure and process audio data. Audio data can be collected from different sources.

The VOIP Video Conference process allows audio and or video communications between connected security systems. A specific security system can itself act as a collector for conversations from other end points. The security system can then trunk the communications into a stream of data that can be sent out to one or more participants.

Ad Hoc Ad Hoc reports show the user exactly what is on screen in the same state as the data container. For example if a data grid is grouped and or filtered then the report view will be of the grouped and filtered set of data. These reports are designed for on the fly real time type reports.

Formatted These reports are pre defined and have a more professional look than ad hoc reports. These are the reports that are sent to others as a more formal document.

Metric based These reports correlate data into a pivot grid like report structure. These reports are good for tracking certain sets of data over time.

The reporting interface allows the user to define the report type and data to collect as well as save the report to internal or export reports to other data formats.

The Data Request Process builds the sql or other statement that requests data from a backend. Queries may be simple complex nested multi dimensional etc. and will take into account future data extraction technologies.

The exemplary Transaction Process allows adding deleting and modifying identities and other records and follows a straight forward transaction process. The process provides for the guarantee of the integrity and reliability of data and meets federal standards under HSPD 12 for identity verification in a government environment.

2. Authentication medium smartcards chips and any other data storage medium whether its embedded imbedded attached not attached etc. . . . 

3. Authentication factor something a person has something a person knows who a person is time space etc. . . . 

Integrity and reliability of identity information can be done through transaction and data tracking through storage devices and authentication mediums through the use of

GUIDs UUIDs or any certificate s and other markers can be used to uniquely identify an identity across local regional national and international structures whether they are storage structure or authentications mediums. An identity can be uniquely correlated through connected or disconnected space and time through any of the above markers. Considering the fact that certain attributes of personal or private data can t be transmitted in some cases the unique marker identifier provides a means to validate an identity without the loss or compromise of sensitive data. If sensitive data needs to be accessed the unique marker identifier can be used as a lookup structure to a storage medium or to an authentication medium for additional sensitive data.

By using these markers and identifiers it is possible to replicate identities across multiple remote data stores locally regionally nationally or internationally without losing integrity. This also allows for near real time updates for immediate identity visibility.

While the above described flowcharts have been discussed in relation to a particular sequence of events it should be appreciated that changes to this sequence can occur without materially effecting the operation of the invention. Additionally the exact sequence of events need not occur as set forth in the exemplary embodiments but rather the steps can be performed by one or more of the elements described. Additionally the exemplary techniques illustrated herein are not limited to the specifically illustrated embodiments but can also be utilized with the other exemplary embodiments and each described feature is individually and separately claimable.

The above described system can be implemented on one or more secured hardened and or unsecured computer systems and related components and may be connected to other systems data feeds network s etc. via a secure or unsecured or encrypted wired and or wireless wide local area network system a satellite communication system a modem or the like or on a separate programmed general purpose computer having a communications device.

Additionally the systems methods and protocols of this invention can be implemented on a special purpose computer s a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element s an ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hard wired electronic or logic circuit such as discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as PLD PLA FPGA PAL any comparable means or the like. In general any device capable of implementing a state machine that is in turn capable of implementing the methodology illustrated herein can be used to implement the various systems and techniques described in relation to this invention.

Furthermore the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software using object or object oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer or workstation platforms. Alternatively the disclosed system may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or VLSI design. Whether software or hardware is used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention is dependent on the speed and or efficiency requirements of the system the particular function and the particular software or hardware systems or microprocessor or microcomputer systems being utilized. The systems methods and protocols illustrated herein can be readily implemented in hardware and or software using any known or later developed systems or structures devices and or software by those of ordinary skill in the applicable art from the functional description provided herein and with a general basic knowledge of the computer and logical and physical security arts.

Moreover the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software that can be stored on a storage medium executed on programmed general purpose computer with the cooperation of a controller and memory a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In these instances the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as an applet JAVA or CGI script as a resource residing on a server or computer workstation as a routine embedded in a dedicated communication system or system component or the like. The system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and or method into a software and or hardware system such as the hardware and software systems of a security system.

It is therefore apparent that there has been provided in accordance with the present invention systems and methods for combined IT Network and physical security management. While this invention has been described in conjunction with a number of embodiments it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations would be or are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. Accordingly it is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications equivalents and variations that are within the spirit and scope of this invention.

