---

title: Landmark-based routing
abstract: Driving directions can be helpful if in addition to spatial information, landmark information is provided. Landmarks assist in adding context to directions as well as allowing for a greater likelihood of success of an operator following directions. There can be employment of physical identification of landmarks as well as processing regarding the utility of a landmark in regards to driving directions. Driving directions can be highly useful if integrated landmarks relate to knowledge possessed by an operator of a vehicle. Landmark based driving direction can be integrated with advertisements that relate to the directions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07912637&OS=07912637&RS=07912637
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 07912637
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070625
---
The subject specification relates generally to route generation and in particular to augmenting computer based routes with identification landmarks.

When parties travel to a new location they can employ directions to assist in finding a route. Common directional schemes provide turn by turn steps an operator can employ to reach a destination. The steps can include official highway information e.g. take Fifth Avenue State Highway 631. as well as distance information e.g. you will be on Fifth Avenue for 23.2 miles. 

Various computer programs are available to assist an operator in producing directions. Conventional visual direction generation programs provide both text directions e.g. turn left on Main Street as well as a map highlighting a suggested route to be used by the operator. A problem with visual direction types is that it forces the operator to take her eyes off the road. Shifting attention away from vehicle operation can lead to an increase probability of accidents as well as the possibility of missing critical information e.g. a street sign. 

To eliminate some of the problems associated with visual directions various other alternatives have been developed. One of the more popular alternatives is direction systems integrated with audio instructions. In addition to having a visual display a digital voice sends audio instructions to a user. This allows users to focus visual resources on operating the vehicle.

When taking a route users commonly can notice landmarks along the route. For example if an operator is running low on fuel the operator likely will take note of the location of a re fuel station. Some landmarks are more distinctive and have a greater change of being remembered. For example some cities can have iconic structures located throughout a city that service as landmarks e.g. painted cows painted guitars etc. These landmarks are commonly memorable to a user that a user associates with a location.

The following presents a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of the specification. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Conventional automated route generation systems do not provide landmark information in addition to turn by turn directions. The subject specification discloses information related to integrating landmark information. When a person provides directions there is commonly presentment of landmark information e.g. you will make a right onto Main Street right after the large oak tree. A modification component takes a generated route and augments the route with relevant landmark information. A landmark integrated route is transferred to an operator via a transmission component.

One manner to improve route presentation is through enabling an operator to follow directions that relate to familiar landmarks. If the operator is familiar with some landmarks then the operator should have a lesser likelihood of becoming lost if a route has at least some familiar landmarks. For example if a user is going to a suburb she has never visited near a downtown area she has visited then the directions can take her to the downtown area and lead her to the suburb. Limited instruction can be provided to take the user to the downtown area since the user is already familiar with the area. This provides benefit to both the user and the vehicle the user is not given unnecessary information and the vehicle can devote resources to other applications since fewer directions are provided.

Another manner to improve route presentation is to include directed advertising in a landmark route. Advertisements can provide a stream of revenue as well as give a user and familiar understanding of an area. Various embodiments exist to improve routes presented on a website in a desktop application in a mobile device in a vehicle etc. One embodiment includes using an algorithm to score different landmarks where artificial intelligence determines which landmarks to integrate into the route based on the score. In another embodiment storage retains information that relates to a user s previous uses of a website application mobile device vehicle etc.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification may be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. As another example an interface can include I O components as well as associated processor application and or Application Programming Interface API components. As used in this application the terms route path direction directions or the like are generally intended to refer to at least one directional instruction. A route can include at least one direction that a user can follow. A route can be presented in whole e.g. all directions provided at once or in part e.g. after one direction is completed another direction is followed. 

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . . Additionally it should be appreciated that a carrier wave can be employed to carry computer readable electronic data such as those used in transmitting and receiving electronic mail or in accessing a network such as the Internet or a local area network LAN . Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Commonly when one individual communicates directions to a driver the directions include both street information e.g. turn right on Main Street as well as supplemental information. Supplemental information typically can include topology e.g. make a right at the top of the hill geographical e.g. you will see the Cuyahoga River on your left dynamic data e.g. during the day the building has an active multi level fountain large objects e.g. the Terminal Tower will be visible in front of you etc. However while this information is useful in providing directions there is no computer application that takes landmarks into account.

Conventional computer generated driving directions today are very robotic and do not do an adequate job of mimicking driving directions provided by one person to another. When a person gives directions they realize that landmarks are just as important if not more important as road names. As a result it is typical for a person to pepper their directions with highly visible roadside landmarks such as Go down Main street for about 3 blocks. When you see a gas station on your left make a right onto James Street. Go about a mile until you see a hamburger restaurant then make a right on 23rd street. Go a few blocks and make a left on Elm. If you see a pharmacy you went too far. 

Conventional computer generated driving directions are difficult to use in many situations. A user could know he needs to make a left on South Moorland Road but it is dark or foggy making street signs difficult to see forcing him to slow down and study each intersection. Tree branches may be obstructing street signs or a sign may be missing entirely. However a gas station on the corner just before South Moorland is well lit and visible. If directions told him to make a left on Moorland just past the gas station the directions would be much more useable.

A modified route transfers to a transmission component . The transmission component sends the route to an auxiliary location. An auxiliary location can include a display screen a printer a speaker etc. Transmission can take place wirelessly e.g. communication of the modified route to a satellite or through a wired configuration e.g. through wires to a display screen in a vehicle. The modification component integrates landmark information upon a route. The transmission component emits an integrated route to an auxiliary location.

It is to be appreciated that the modification component can integrate with a route generation component. For example there can be augmentation of the route during route creation. Creation and modification can occur concurrently through utilization of the system .

The following is an example of two different direction sets one direction set with topology information and one direction set without topology information 

New classes of perceived landmarks can include topological features e.g. road contours curves hills poorly lit drives rough drives street sizes etc. natural landmarks e.g. water features mountains fields etc. fabricated structures and artifacts e.g. towers distinctive buildings dams statues artwork etc. and the like.

A generation component can create a route from information gathered through the reception component and or through other means e.g. sensors . Route generation can take place through a number of different embodiments. According to one embodiment a route can be generated to maximize an amount of a fuel resource. According to another embodiment a route is generated based on allowing a vehicle to reach a location in the shortest amount of time.

Sensors can determine information that relates to operation of the vehicle . At least one sensor can collect information utilized in modification of the route. For example vehicle speed determined through the sensors can be used in determining if a landmark will be noticed by a user. Sensors e.g. engine internal and external temperature tire pressure tire wear terrain sensors vibration noise air quality power meters fuel sensors energy levels energy utilization user stress user feedback voice recognition facial recognition gesture recognition language parsers text input etc. are employed to collect information relating to the vehicle a driver passengers environment etc. The sensors can include video perception sensors and audio perception sensors that provide information concerning lighting sings buildings distractions e.g. a band playing an operator will likely hear that will pull attention away from a landmark etc. It is to be appreciated that a system can function without utilization of sensors .

Storage retains information related to operation of the vehicle . This can include information concerning the reception component the generation component as well as the sensors . Furthermore the storage can hold information concerning other components of the vehicle including an analysis component the modification component and the transmission component . The storage can hold a landmark database that is used in integration of landmark information to a route.

An analysis component receives and processes information from the aforementioned components and the extrinsic data. The analysis component can perform an operation upon information related to the route. The analysis component can utilize a set of models e.g. driver behavior model vehicle model terrain model energy source model etc. in connection with determining or inferring which set of landmarks to apply to a route. The models can be based on a plurality of information e.g. driver behavior vehicle performance predicted and or sensed traffic flow speeds etc. . . . . Over time the respective models will become trained to facilitate landmarks that are of use to an operator.

The analysis component can include a calculation component that assists in making determinations based on landmarks. The calculation component can perform at least one estimation in relation to an operator perception of a landmark where the estimation is used in integration of landmarks upon the route. For example a landmark can be one mile away 100 feet tall is tallest structure in an area and weather can be clear. The calculation component makes an estimation that an average user of a vehicle will be able to see and recognize a landmark from X feet away.

An optional learning and reasoning system referred to as artificial intelligence can be employed by the analysis component in connection with making determinations or inferences regarding landmark application. According to one embodiment artificial intelligence can take an output of the calculation component and make a determination if adding a landmark in directions will be of use for an operator of a vehicle. For example the calculation component can be determine that a landmark will be appreciated by an operator feet before arriving at the landmark. If the operator is traveling at sixty miles per hour then the artificial intelligence can determine that the landmark should not be entered into a direction set since it will not be appreciated until it is too late for an average use to act upon a recognition.

Artificial intelligence makes an inference and or determination on what landmark information to integrate upon the route. The artificial intelligence can employ for example a probabilistic based or statistical based approach in connection with making determinations or inferences. The inferences can be based in part upon explicit training of classifier s not shown before employing the system or implicit training based at least upon a vehicle s or user s previous actions commands instructions and the like during use of the system. In addition explicit training can take place from a community of operators e.g. operators with similar demographic information to a user that commonly operates a vehicle utilizing the system . Explicit training can take place with an operator that commonly uses a vehicle with the system being part of the community of operators as well as the operator not being part of the community of operators. Data or policies used in optimizations can be collected from specific drivers or from a community of drivers and their vehicles.

Artificial intelligence can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models more general probabilistic graphical models such as Bayesian networks e.g. created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers such as methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein.

Methods also include methods for the capture of logical relationships such as theorem provers or more heuristic rule based expert systems. Inferences derived from such learned or manually constructed models can be employed in optimization techniques such as linear and non linear programming that seek to maximize some objective function. For example maximizing the likelihood an operator will perceive a landmark minimizing the amount of time it will take an operator to notice a landmark and so on. The artificial intelligence can operate as a means for determining a probability of usefulness of at least one identified landmark.

Artificial intelligence can take into consideration historical data and data about the current context such as the recently observed trajectories and velocities of a vehicle calendar information time of day and day of week state of the vehicle and its energy subsystems state and intentions of the user inferred or asserted explicitly state of a highway or more global road system etc. and can compute the expected utilities of different landmark modifications. Such modifications consider the cost of making an incorrect determination or inference versus benefit of making a correct determination or inference e.g. placing a semi temporary landmark that is easily distinguishable for example take a right at the hot pink house could be wrong if the house is now painted a different color . Accordingly an expected utility based analysis can be used to provide inputs or hints to other components or for taking automated action directly. Ranking and confidence measures can be calculated and employed in connection with such analysis.

The analysis component can take into consideration terrain information from terrain maps through indexing of global positioning system information. One consideration can be near term local terrain and context. Another consideration can be information e.g. direct information inferred information etc. about longer term routes up to and including a destination. For example the analysis component can consider a map of a possible route that can obtain data from a global positioning system in determining an operation policy. That can include both information of nearby terrain as well as information about terrain that will be encountered in a relatively long distance.

There can be computation of visual and visceral perceptions of landmarks through an analysis component e.g. based off typical speeds and geometric information. For example given expected velocities the analysis component computes whether or not a driver will experience or notice a potentially useful landmark such as the start or end of a fast climb or the start of a downhill segment or the bottoming out of such a drop. There can be further computations concerning where a driver would feel a tight curve or a rough road. The analysis component can report where and when e.g. in time from a current position landmarks would be first revealed or first become occluded based on a line of sight analysis using information about the location and topology of roads during a trip. Geometric projections can be used to compute line of sight analyses

Furthermore the analysis component can consider perceptual salience of different kinds of landmarks and also contextual changes in the salience of landmarks for example the salience of different kinds of landmarks for navigating at different times of day and seasons of the year thus modifying landmarks based on weather and lighting. For example landmarks that are salient in the daytime will not be salient in the evening and vice versa e.g. for evening a system may indicate Make a left turn at the large street right after you first see a lighted steeple of the Morman temple and the date and time of travel e.g. for considering when the sun will have set can be considered to generate navigational plans that include perceptual landmarks.

The analysis component can include a calculation component that creates functions that serve as transformations from driving coordinates to perceptual landmarks which can automatically take into consideration such widely available information as topological data United States Geological Survey land types data geographical features resources e.g. available in databases about buildings malls shops etc. and to combine database information with road contour and geometry information.

Topological analysis and speeds can also tell where and when people would feel a big climb starting or an obvious dip in the road. Improperly lit areas can be discovered and called out or avoided in directions. Lack of signage can be recognized and relayed in directions. Methods employed by the analysis component can include volatile or non stationary perceptions based on the dynamics of the context or on conditional states for example how the sun falls based on time of day how things appear or disappear with changes in weather e.g. on clear days you ll see . . . . These can be combined with other more traditional features such as commercial landmarks shops etc.

There can be an extension by defining and automatically finding and triaging the most useful landmarks on a trip e.g. landmarks are things that may be quite rare versus commonplace etc. The analysis component compute measures of perceptual salience based on automated analysis of typical and atypical objects and structures. Analysis can also include cognitive issues such as the ease with which something might be recognized with minimal distraction to driving etc. considering such notions as the cognitive load with recognizing different kinds of landmarks.

There can also be a modification component that changes a route. According to one embodiment the generation component creates a generic route from moving between a start point and a finish point. The analysis component makes various determinations based on the generated route. For example the analysis component can determine where on the path there will be a high hill. Moreover the analysis component can utilize artificial intelligence in determining which landmarks to employ in the route. For example a first hill with a 20 grade could be determined as useful while a hill with a 1 grade would likely go un noticed by an operator.

Selected landmarks and the route can transfer to a modification component . The modification component can change the route information to include selected landmark information. For example the modification component can add to directions make a right on E. 9th Street that is at a bottom of a hill emphasis added. Furthermore there can be a transmission component that sends a modified route to an auxiliary location.

Scores can be used by the analysis component in determining what landmarks should be part of a modified route. Scores can be calculated based on static properties of the landmark and the relationship of the landmark to the route. Furthermore the storage can function as a database of business landmarks and associated static scores. According to a different embodiment the storage is located separate from the vehicle and accessed through the transmission component . For example the analysis component can employ scoring on a database located upon the storage . Some businesses make better landmarks then others. Therefore specific rules can be applied to landmarks to create a score for the landmark.

The following are a number of rules that can be employed by the analysis component . There can be employment of a rule that determines if the business is part of a chain. A business that is part of a national chain is likely to be more recognizable then a local business. Therefore the analysis component can score a national chain business higher then a regional chain business. The analysis component can operate as a means for selecting at least one landmark to augment upon directions based on determined probability of usefulness of at least one identified landmark.

The analysis component can have a rule that adjusts a score of a business based on its category. Different businesses can classify into different categories and businesses in the categories can have different traits that relate to usefulness as a landmark. For example a gas station commonly has a highly lit sign toward the edge of a street this could be useful as a landmark and can be scored highly. However a telemarketing business commonly has little to no signs so there would be a low score.

A rule based on context can be used to influence a score for a business. For example a business could be a recognizable business with distinctive trademarks known worldwide. However if the business is located within a shopping mall it will be of virtually no use to an operator since the operator will not be able to see the business and or appreciate the business in time to act upon the landmark. Therefore the business despite its notoriety can be given a low score.

A rule based on visibility can also influence how a business is scored. This can take into account information such as business footprint orientation distance from the road obstructions e.g. tree branches covering signs etc. One embodiment of determining a business visibility from the road involves the use of image recognition of names or logos from street side imagery. The artificial intelligence can make an inference or determination on what landmarks to use based on the score. However the artificial intelligence does not have to use score alone in determining what to place into a modified route. For example the sensors can determine the vehicle is low on fuel. Therefore despite possibly having a lower score a re fuel station can be provided as a landmark since it can serve two purposes e.g. being distinctive and providing a place to re fuel. It is to be appreciated that while specific rules are disclosed other rules can be used in providing a score to a landmark.

A rule based on a user profile or history can influence a score of a business. For example if a user has been to a coffee shop of company A on a previous route they are likely to recognize another coffee shop of company A. In another example if they are an avid coffee drinker they are also likely to recognize a coffee shop of company A.

A rule based on proximity to key features of the route can be used to affect how a business is scored. Businesses near corners where the route turns are more beneficial than ones along side a road between turns. Businesses near the end of a route are more useful as users tend to get directions from known locations to unknown ones.

The artificial intelligence can operate as a means for placing a score on at least one landmark. Commonly this is done through application of previously mentioned rules. The analysis component can function as a means for selecting a landmark for integration into a route based at least in part on the score. This can include selecting the highest score as well as placing different weights on scores and or score portions.

According to one embodiment the artificial intelligence of can select a preferred if not optimal landmark for a specific turn or action. For example an ideal landmark can come just before a turn on the same side of the street as the turn. Business can be an ideal choice assuming it scored reasonably well for visibility. For example an instruction can take place Turn Right on 2nd Ave just after the gas station on your right . However there can be a more factors to consider when weighing landmarks for selection based on geography and commonly it is hard to find an ideal landmark. Therefore weights should be applied to determine a proper landmark.

For example the artificial intelligence of can determine that a more visible landmark is more likely to be useful then a close landmark. In this example the Empire State Building 2 blocks away can be more useful then a local yarn store one block away. While components are shown to operate as separate entities it is to be appreciated components disclosed in the subject specification can integrate together and operate as one unit.

A modification component can add landmark identifiers to a route processed through the analysis component . The modification component can relay on information related to the advertisement component in modifying a route thereby including announcements and landmarks in a presented route. Commonly an announcement is commercial in nature that is specifically directed at the operator. For example a user could be traveling to a sports stadium. An announcement can be incorporated into the route listing a restaurant near the stadium e.g. the instruction make a left at Main Street Deli. Furthermore the announcement can include auxiliary information e.g. make a left at Main Street Deli home of the famous jumbo corned beef sandwich. 

According to one embodiment the announcements are presented in addition to directions. For example while listing directions advertisement data can also be provided e.g. turn left at Main Street by the large oak tree and if you are hungry grab a sandwich at Main Street Deli . A transmission component transfers information to an operator. The transmission component can interact with the operator. For example the transmission component can be a display screen. A button can be touched by the user that changes the route e.g. from here these are directions to the Main Street Deli. 

The advertisement component can supply at least one announcement related to a landmark. The modification component can assimilate at least one announcement related to the landmark upon a route. Furthermore the modification component can integrate landmark information upon the route. The reception component can operate as a means for receiving at least one offer for presentment of an announcement related to at least one landmark e.g. receiving offers from companies to use their store as a landmark etc. The analysis component can operate as a means for selecting at least one offer for presentment. For example the analysis component can select an offer that is associated with the most money. The artificial intelligence can function as a means for evaluating at least one offer for presentment of the announcement. For example the artificial intelligence can determine if an announcement is inappropriate e.g. an advertisement for an over 21 age dance club when the operator is 17 years of age. 

A user can interact with the vehicle through the input component . The input component can take form of a number of different embodiments. According to one embodiment the input component is a display that can interact from user touch. In another embodiment the input component is a handheld device e.g. cellular telephone personal digital assistant etc. that connects to the vehicle. Connection to the vehicle can be wireless or wired.

The user can input information related to driving directions. For example a user can request directions for a route to a building never before visited by a user to a downtown area frequently visited by the user. Conventional systems can direct the user to the building without concern to what a user knows.

The analysis component can access from storage that the user has been to the downtown area in previous interactions of the vehicle . The analysis component can utilize the artificial intelligent to make inferences and or determinations based on what areas are familiar to the user. Continuing the previous example the user can never have been to a downtown office building but has been to a downtown sports stadium three blocks away numerous times. Therefore the analysis component can provide a route that takes the user on a route toward the stadium e.g. a route the user knows and then provides directions from the stadium to the building. It is to be appreciated a route can take a user near a familiar location while not necessarily to the location. For example if the user knows the way to a stadium then the route can take the user 80 toward the stadium and then use new directions. Furthermore the analysis component can take a user on completely unfamiliar paths by using other consideration e.g. fastest time risk factors etc. 

According to another embodiment the user can enter information through the input component concerning intermediate landmarks. Directions can be based on intermediate landmarks the user can select familiar intermediate landmarks for utilization in presenting directions. Directions can be provided from intermediate landmarks this does not give the user excess information and does not force the vehicle to use extra resources computing information already known to the user. The input component can obtain information from the user that is employed in creation of the route.

The input component can obtain from a user at least one landmark that relates to a desired destination. For example a structure that is within X distance of an end location. The destination is classified as desired since there is no guarantee a vehicle will arrive at a destination e.g. user changes her mind vehicle is in an automobile accident frustration of purpose etc. Furthermore the input component can obtain information from the user that relates to a user profile. For example an operator can input their name to the vehicle . A profile relating to the name that relates to previous engagements of the vehicle can be retrieved from storage . The profile can be used in determining what landmarks are familiar to the operator. Since the operator provided information for the profile the input component obtained a landmark from the user indirectly through a profile in storage. The modification component can incorporate a user landmark in a route.

There can be generation of directions from the start location to the end location . Generation of directions can take place from a number of different embodiments. According to one embodiment the vehicle generates directions locally based on the start location and the end location. According to another embodiment directions are received from a remote location.

Action is adding at least one landmark identifier to the directions. Landmark identifiers assist in allowing a vehicle operator to have a greater understanding of the surroundings. Therefore a single line of the directions can be Turn Right on Market Street Market Street is located at the bottom a second steep hill you will encounter. This allows an operator to appreciate the surroundings and minimizes a likelihood the user will become lost.

Checking if a subsequent landmark should be added to the directions if after addition of a previous landmark can take place. This can take place according to a number of different embodiments. According to one embodiment a calculation can take place to determine if directions have an adequate number of landmark references. For example particular roads routes etc. can have different likelihoods of a user becoming lost. A higher likelihood can signal that a direction set should have a higher number of landmarks. A particular road can have a high likelihood and a direction set can have one landmark. Action determines that another landmark should be added to lower a driver risk of becoming lost.

If an additional landmark should be added then there can be adding a subsequent landmark to the directions thus returning the methodology to action . For example a highly confusing direction set should be augmented with more landmarks. If a direction set does not have enough landmarks e.g. there is one landmark for a twenty mile journey that has a history of confusing drivers then there can be an addition of at least one more landmark. This can reiterate for a third landmark fourth landmark etc.

The methodology can engage in sending directions with at least one landmark identifier to a supplemental locality . Different supplemental localities can be used including a printer or a display screen of a vehicle. Furthermore sending can take place locally e.g. from inside a vehicle to an integrated display screen of the vehicle or remotely e.g. from a database server. 

There can also be obtaining feedback that concerns directions with at least one landmark identifier . It is possible that directions supplied to a user are of little value. Landmarks could have changed could have been hard to find the operator could have traveled too fast to notice them etc. Therefore obtaining feedback allows for adding at least one landmark identifier to directions with knowledge of effectiveness of certain landmarks. Adding at least one landmark identifier to the directions can include training logic to add and or deny certain landmarks based on obtained feedback. Furthermore obtained feedback can be passive. For example if a user did not take directions provided through the methodology then a notation can be made and feedback information can be used in action .

Receiving at least one offer to present at least on proposition associated with at least one landmark can take place. This is commonly a straight acceptance e.g. no negotiation. However it is to be appreciated that the offer can be a counter offer and actions and can repeat to conduct a negotiation. A rejection can be an offer to present for no money. According to one embodiment the offer originates not from and advertiser but a related body e.g. a vehicle manufacturer supplies an offer based on contracts with other companies. 

There can be evaluating applicability of at least one proposition associated with at least one landmark . For example if a response is received once the intersection has been passed then the advertisement would be inapplicable. In another situation of the example the action transmitted an offer to an incorrect location e.g. a gasoline company that does not have a station at the intersection an acceptance of the offer would be impractical.

The methodology can include selecting at least one proposition to apply upon the landmark . This can take place through a number of different embodiments. According to one embodiment an advertiser offering the highest price is selected. According to another embodiment a waiver system is used a set price is used and an order is determined based on frequency of presentment e.g. the advertiser with the longest duration since a previous presentment is selected. 

Event is applying at least one proposition to the landmark. This associates an advertisement with a landmark. According to one embodiment the methodology engages in applying propositions that are not integrated automatically with a landmark. Therefore an application can take place to synchronize the landmark and the proposition. For example an application of at least one proposition to a landmark can create a direction take a left on Main Street at the end of the hill and listen to Mornings with Alvin on 108.5 FM. 

There can be presenting a landmark with at least one proposition integrated upon a route . Presentment can take place according to a number of different embodiments. According to one embodiment presentment is through audio speakers integrated with a vehicle radio. According to another embodiment presentment takes place through transferring route information through a display of an electronic device e.g. cellular telephone. 

The methodology can include calculating a fee for presenting at least one proposition integrated upon the route . Commonly the methodology operates to present advertisements for a fee. A typical fee is of monetary value however it is to be appreciated that the fee can be non monetary e.g. exchange of advertisements advertise gasoline for gasoline station having vehicle manufacturing advertisements etc. 

Extracting the fee for presenting at least one proposition integrated upon the route can take place. According to one embodiment extraction takes place by direct withdrawal associated with a provider of a proposition. According to another embodiment a note is made in accounting software of a central server by sending a request for change. The central server sends a bill to a provider after an increment of time e.g. quarterly monthly etc. Sending the request for change is considered an extraction.

In addition to this example the process of requesting a proposition can be influenced by several other factors. For example in addition to a location of an advertisement request it can include the user s profile the time of day the length of the route and the user s previous destinations. This information can be used to provide more optimal advertisements. Example advertisements can include 1. Gas stations are important for medium length routes. Even for short routes they are important due to their visibility . 2. Hotels are important for long routes. 3. Coffee shops are important for routes calculated in the morning. 4. Restaurants are important for routes calculated around lunch or dinner. 5. Bait tackle stores are relevant for anglers. 6. Men s clothing stores are important for a user who has previously searched for men s clothing.

There can be gathering information that concerns previous operation of a vehicle . According to one embodiment gathering takes place through access of an internal storage component. According to another embodiment gathering takes place through engaging an operator with questions. According to yet a further embodiment gathering occurs through communication with an auxiliary device.

The methodology can include receiving data that relates to at least one landmark that is familiar to a party related to operation of the vehicle . Commonly a user engages an input component to inform a vehicle as to what landmarks are familiar to the user. For example a user can input data that the user knows where a stadium is and a building the user does not know is near the stadium. According to one embodiment a passenger of the vehicle communicates landmark information through a wireless device.

Applying information that concerns previous operation of the vehicle in generating a path can take place. For example there can be generation of a new path for a vehicle. Applying previous operation information in path generation assists providing a greater likelihood a path will be familiar to the user. In the example if a user has been on Main Street before then a path that includes Main Street would be easier for a user to follow.

Action is modifying a path with at least one landmark that is familiar to a party related to operation of a vehicle. A generated path commonly does not include landmark information. Modifying the path with familiar landmark information enables an operator to have a greater likelihood of following directions. However the landmark does not need to be familiar to an operator but to a party. For example a passenger of a vehicle can be familiar with an area and assist the operator.

The methodology can include applying information that concerns previous operation of the vehicle in modifying the path . Information that relates to where a vehicle has traveled can be important in modifying a path. For example if a user has been past City Hall before then there is a greater likelihood that the user is familiar with City Hall. The path can be modified to include an instruction that relates to city hall.

There can be integrating advertisement information to the path based on party familiarity of at least one landmark . If a user is familiar with a landmark then there can be a greater likelihood the user finds a neighborhood with the landmark safe since the user has traveled there before. Therefore a user can be more likely to stop at a store in the neighborhood since the user considers the neighborhood safe. Advertisements can be added to the path that relate to the landmark. Advertisements can be both commercial and non commercial in nature.

Event is presenting the path to an operator of the vehicle. Presentment can take place according to a number of different embodiments. According to one embodiment presentment is printing a physical copy. According to another embodiment presentment is saving a copy of the path on an auxiliary device.

Action is updating a database that relates to at least one landmark. It can be beneficial to keep a record of what landmarks have been visited by the user. Landmarks visited by a user can be more likely to be familiar to the user. This can save resources by not having to ask the user as well as providing convenience to the user since the user is bombarded with fewer questions.

Action is modifying the route path based on a landmark based route preferences. One embodiment involves recalculating the entire route another embodiment involves replacing sections of the route with a modified path with at least one landmark that was received.

Action involves modifying the instructions based on the new path. For the example with landmark based U Turn instructions this involves the addition of the conditional instructions to be followed when a turn is missed. For the example where the user likes coffee this involves highlighting the coffee shop and informing the user of the drive thru.

Event is presenting the path to an operator of the vehicle. Presentment can take place according to a number of different embodiments. According to one embodiment presentment is printing a physical copy. According to another embodiment presentment is saving a copy of the path on an auxiliary device.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with the subject specification. The system includes one or more client s . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The client s can house cookie s and or associated contextual information by employing the specification for example.

The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing the specification for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet adapted to be transmitted between two or more computer processes. The data packet may include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of a computer operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 11 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

What has been described above includes examples of the present specification. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the present specification but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the present specification are possible. Accordingly the present specification is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the detailed description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

