---

title: Method of sensor disposition
abstract: A process is provided for disposing a sensor in an environment for optimally obtaining characteristic measurements. The process includes modeling covariant sets of environment elements that correspond to conditions of the environment and of sensor elements that correspond to characteristic functionalities of the sensor. The process further includes covariantly coupling the environmental elements with the sensor elements to produce a third set of configuration elements; and combining the configuration elements to obtain a fitness function parameter. The process may additionally include adjusting the environment elements and the sensor elements; repeating operations for covariantly coupling and combining until obtaining the fitness function parameter over a defined region of the environment within a set of fitness function parameters. Also, the process may include determining an extreme value within the set of fitness function parameters, which may also include optimizing the fitness function parameter as an optimum value with a genetic algorithm over the set of fitness function parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07895021&OS=07895021&RS=07895021
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07895021
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070612
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 60 813 437 with a filing date of Jun. 13 2006 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to sensor placement in a fluid flow field. In particular the invention relates to integration of cellular automata and a genetic search algorithm together with a fitness landscape.

Measuring pressure and velocity characteristics in an environment that may include boundary layer separation requires careful disposition of instrument sensors in order to adequately characterize the flow field phenomena. Placement of sensors involves evaluation of types and capabilities of sensors as well as the environment whose characteristics are to be measured. These sundry considerations can represent a significant challenge particularly for optimization by minimizing the quantity and intrusiveness of the instrumentalities being employed.

Conventional procedures for sensor displacement yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular the process disclosed herein provides for disposing a sensor in an environment for optimally obtaining characteristic measurements. The embodiments include modeling covariant sets of environment elements that correspond to conditions of the environment and of sensor elements that correspond to characteristic functionalities of the sensor. The embodiments further include covariantly coupling the environmental elements with the sensor elements to produce a third set of configuration elements and combining the configuration elements to obtain a fitness function.

Other various embodiments alternatively or additionally provide for adjusting the environment elements and the sensor elements repeating operations for covariantly coupling and combining until obtaining the fitness function over a defined region of the environment within a set of fitness function parameters. Additionally other various embodiments alternatively or additionally provide for determining an extreme value within the set of fitness function parameters which may also include optimizing the fitness function as an optimum value with a genetic algorithm over that set.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

As provided by the embodiments to be described a suite of three algorithms provide a software capability to optimize selection placement and orientation of a sensor in a flow field. A threat detector for platform or area protection represents an application example. Two of the algorithms are established in the applied mathematics community entailing a cellular automata based fluid model and a genetic search algorithm.

A third algorithm involves the concept of a fitness landscape discussed in detail herein heretofore unknown to sensor placement and thus novel to such applications. In this disclosure the terms optimized and optimal in the colloquial sense connote a maximized or maximal state respectively. Thus the sensor placement problem generically is recognized to represent a constrained optimization problem leading to sub optimal solutions.

A 2004 DARPA report on sensor metrics included findings that a sensor requirements are ill defined b sensors need to have multiple operating modes allowing variability in sensor capabilities to meet operational needs c testing and characterization is outdated and d receiver operating characteristic ROC curves are essential for development testing and evaluation of chemical biological sensors. The report concluded that sensor performance characterization is most meaningful when done with the sensor operating in a real world environment. However the report also acknowledged that the ideal of generating ROC curves requires a very large amount of field data which is sic difficult and expensive to acquire p. 10 . The report further identified the key sensor metrics of sensitivity probability of correct detection false positive rate and response time.

Artisans of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that ROC curves represent a graphical measure of sensitivity for binary discrimination. Such ROC curves may be used to represent ratios between rates of true positives a condition correctly categorized as satisfying the threshold and false positives a condition incorrectly categorized as satisfying the threshold . These may be mapped into ROC space as a predictive mechanism of correct categorization.

A sensor s performance depends upon the following broad areas 1 Operational environment 2 Innate sensor design and 3 Sensor environment interface or coupling sampling efficiency . A software tool as disclosed herein addresses these performance areas in an integrated fashion through a suite of algorithms that incorporate sensor design functions environmental functions and a novel approach that characterizes the coupling efficiency and design functionalities of the sensor. This approach may be termed simulated performance. The algorithm is completely generic and as such can fundamentally address the performance characteristics implicit in ROC curves.

Outputs of this algorithm are optimized sensor type selection for given environments and optimized sensor placement around objects for monitoring air quality. Consequently the procedure provides a capability that can have important applications in industry fire protection and chemical biological and radiological CBR defense.

The procedure is iterative as described further herein. In particular a value may be assigned to the different possible configurations by employing a concept inspired by theoretical biology known as fitness. In summary the fitness of a biological species determines its ability to survive and pass on its genetic pool to subsequent generations i.e. its performance . Naturally its survivability depends upon its innate compatibility with its local environment and its ability to adapt to environmental changes.

In theoretical biology fitness has been mathematically abstracted by introducing the concept of a fitness function that plays the role of a genome string of genetic information whose variations due to mutation or mating generate a fitness landscape. In the parlance of genetics a fitness landscape abstracts the concept of phenotypic plasticity where high plasticity implies strong environmental consequences reflected in the genotypes or phenotypes and fitness translates to enhanced replication rates. See e.g. C. M. Readys et al. Combinatorial Landscapes v. 44 iss. 1 pp. 3 54 2002.

Mathematically a fitness landscape is a locus of points e.g. a surface if the function is continuous that is composed of mappings of each and every variation of the state vector onto the real numbers. This mapping quantifies value or fitness. As an example the Royal Roads Fitness Function RRFF may be applied to this concept of the sensor placement problem. See e.g. E. van Nimwegen et al. Statistical Dynamics of the Royal Road Genetic Algorithm v. 229 iss. 1 2 pp. 41 102 November 1999. The RRFF consists of a state vector genome of 1s and 0s genes .

By simply summing all of the elements the fitness map a numerical value e.g. an integer can be obtained that may be interpreted as a measure of fitness. Thus by changing or rearranging any of the 1s or 0s a new fitness can be determined and compared. There exists possibility for equal valued finesses this is termed neutrality. The collection of all fitness values associated with all elemental variations constitutes in this case discrete the fitness landscape.

The concept of a fitness landscape thus traces back to Darwin s seminal notion of natural selection and is the biological analogue of a cost or utility function found in optimization theory. It provides a conceptually simple way to account for environmental effects upon the dynamical states of systems when exposed to changing conditions. In complexity theoretic language the environment affects a top down influence upon the system elements favoring particular elemental configurations. Conversely and equally important is the idea that the individual elements have a collective bottom up effect upon their host environment as well.

This mutual coupling between scales has profound consequence throughout the sciences and constitutes the essence of complexity theory. Accordingly fitness landscapes have found ubiquitous utility in analyzing the global dynamics of many body and complex systems. Landscape theory also provides opportunities for study in many fields of applied and pure mathematics e.g. combinatorial enumeration discrete and continuous topology as well as graph theory.

Various exemplary embodiments utilize the concept of a fitness landscape that characterizes both the coupling of sensors to their local environment as well as the design and or selection of appropriate sensors for given environmental conditions. The first component of the software suit thus involves simulating the environment. Toward this objective a cellular automata CA based flow module may be provided to simulate bulk flow around mobile and stationary structures for varying meteorological conditions.

CA represents a mature technique that has been developed and applied in academic and industrial circles and has fostered understanding in such diverse fields as crack formation and propagation traffic flow fluids engineering and biosystems among others. Computational fluid dynamics CFD Lagrangian particle or Gaussian puff predictions and or direct measurement can be used to characterise envionment as well. A genetic algorithm such as simulated annealing can be used to perform global optimization on the multi modal FLS.

The algorithmic suite may include the following four modules cellular automata CA fitness landscape genetic algorithm and interface.

I. Cellular automata CA module. Existing or developed CA bulk flow capabilities may be employed as the inherent local nature of CA uniquely affords the possibility of changing simulation parameters and observing subsequent transient responses without the need for grid generation or restarting the simulation. The code can be written in modular form using open architecture principles so as to afford ease for future modifications or interfacing with other techniques such as CFD or Lagrangian particle simulations. Existing CFD data are envisioned to be utilized in conjunction with existing test data for CA development and verification.

II. The fitness landscape module. Fitness may be composed by forming the array product of two state vectors defined as follows The first is dynamical flow state vector denoted as that represents varying environments generated by the CA module introduced above will produce a flow field state vector of the form . . . 1 where the functional notion F r t expressly indicates the dependence upon the independent variables of space and time. The space variable denoted by radius vector r includes directional elements in three spatial co rdinants described as elements in the mapping domain r . Time denoted as a time scalar t is described as an element in domain t . With respect to these independent variables optimization ensues to ascertain optimized placement. The functions represent environmental variable that change in space and time e.g. density velocity pressure and temperature.

The second state vector involved in generating the fitness landscape characterizes the various possible sensor capabilities and limits denoted as . In defining this state vector the ielement is physically conjugate to the ielement of the flow state vector for reasons explained subsequently. The sensor state is described by the relation . . . 2 where represents the sensor state for its accompanying parameter for each value i 1 2 . . . n.

The sensor state vector is considered static in being spatially and temporally independent. However this vector is parametrically dynamic by affording variation of sensor design through the parameters such as thresholds and sampling fraction. The combination of eqns. 1 and 2 produces a function for application specific sensor design as well by optimizing upon the design parameters.

The fitness function can be determined for example by taking the array product elemental multiplication of the sensor and flow terms that are defined as . . . 3 where the parameter vector represents the sensor characteristics which may be combined with the spatial and temporal variations in the flow field. In this form the spatial temporal dependence and the parametric dependencies are shown explicitly. These dependencies constitute the multivariate nature of this problem. Thus eqn. 3 represents a high dimensional configuration space that represents all combinations of all possible environmental factors coupled with all relevant sensor characteristics.

Finally the fitness landscape f is formed by mapping the configuration space onto the real numbers by an appropriate p norm . . . 4 where geometrically f is a high dimensional surface whose multiple extrema represent positions of optimized placement orientation and design. The double bar enclosure denotes the norm magnitude of power value p typically rendered to be an absolute value. For example p1 norm corresponds to addition of first order terms p2 norm corresponds to addition of squared terms. The conjugation yields n pairs of multiplied values.

III. A genetic algorithm such as simulated annealing to perform global optimization on the multi modal landscape. These are known in the art.

In the following an instantiation of the above procedure is provided by an illustrative example. The flow state vector is defined by performing a two dimensional 2D simulation of the density of agent and the normalized flow velocity circumflex over v along the edge of an object s surface of interest 5 where r represents a one dimensional vector demarcating the parameter of the object and t the time chosen to interrogate.

In more general form the flow state vector can be expressed similarly to eqn. 1 as . . . 6 where is the vector representing the flow state for an m valued group of such states. The elements in the group such that i 1 2 . . . m are functions of r representing a direction vector t representing time and representing parameters within the flow state that remain effectively static in the temporal and spatial boundaries. Examples of such parameters may include molecular weight thermal conductivity and heat capacity.

The sensor state vector a is defined by assuming a unidirectional sensor e.g. sampling tube that includes a sampling threshold with perfect sampling i.e. no error occurring . The equation can be represented differing slightly in form from eqn. 2 as . . . 7 where is the vector representing a sensor state for an n valued group of such states. The elements such that i 1 2 . . . n are functions of t representing time and representing parameters within the sensor state. Examples of such parameters include instrument range dynamic response and environmental sensitivity.

The first element is chosen to be the inverse of the threshold for reasons to be explained subsequently. The second component is defined to be an outward normal vector circumflex over n perpendicular to the face of the sampling inlet. An example of this circumstance is depicted in .

In particular shows an isometric view of an instrument in a flow field. The system includes an axi symmetric measuring instrument having the outward normal vector circumflex over n . The instrument is disposed within a flow field having a streamline vector circumflex over v . An angle of attack in this example denotes angular offset between the normal vector circumflex over n and the streamline vector circumflex over v .

In simplified form the fitness function can be obtained through a configuration space array obtained by multiplying the covariant components of the flow state vector and the sensor state vector such as by the relation . . . 8 and this array can be quantified in the form of a magnitude denoting scalar within space for the p norm as a fitness function . 9 

An example of this circumstance would include a flow state vector that includes fluid density and normalized velocity circumflex over v from eqn. 5 both of which varying with direction r and time t. With these flow field elements a state vector may be postulated whose elements couple to eqn. 5 in physically meaningful manner. Consequently the following 2 tuple definitions are selected 

Evoking eqn. 8 the configuration space array may therefore be defined as all variations of the 2 tuple array product 

Selection of the inverse of the density threshold becomes apparent when the first element of eqn. 11 reaches unit value upon as the sensor detecting a value that reaches or exceeds the threshold. This assumes no error in the model. Similarly the dot product between the outward normal circumflex over n and the normalized vector circumflex over v corresponds to a value not greater than a magnitude unit due to the definition of the cosine function i.e. cos 12 where represents the angle of attack between these vectors. This illustrates engineering judgment involved in assigning conjugate elements. As a result the sensor state can be represented as a cosine function accounting for the angle of attack denoted as that varies as a function of direction r and time t in relation to the normal vector circumflex over n .

Mapping the fitness function f involves selecting a norm with some physical constraints available for guidance. In this notional example the p2 norm i.e. the Euclidian norm familiar from Pythagoras postulate would lose information regarding the direction of the sensor because negative value of the cosine function would be hidden by square function. Thus a simple additive fitness function in the p1 norm may be selected in this circumstance for which the sensor points in the opposite direction to the flow i.e. the fitness diminishes due to the negative values of the cosine function .

For this example the fitness function f r t varies spatially temporally and triggered to a threshold. The additive p1 norm selection provides a summation of product components from the flow and sensor state elements expressed as 

To illustrate a multi modal fitness landscape shows a plot of landscape functions as a function of position r in a flow field. The position represents the abscissa with the functions forming the ordinate . A one dimensional density variation may be generated with a damped oscillator function denoted as an oscillating curve having a peak at about position one. In this example the threshold value may be momentarily ignored.

A cosine function denoted by a half wave curve to model the velocity field as monotonically increasing to its maximum value of unity at mid position for a peak at position ten and then monotonically decreases back to zero at maximum position twenty. A combined curve denotes the summation of curves and with a peak at about position seven.

As indicated in if the common practice of placing a sensor where there is maximal density alone were followed one would place the sensor somewhere about 1.8 arbitrary distance units from the origin position zero . However when the directionality limitations of the sensor are factored in assumed here with equal weight the fitness landscape approach predicts that the extremum is about seven or eight distance units. This is shown in the plot as combined curve representing the sums of the density curve and the cosine curve . For a threshold constraint of 1 shows that this constraint is only satisfied over the approximate position range between 0.1 and 2.8 indicated by a dark bar on the abscissa for this example.

Thus optimized placement would return to 1.8 as was the case with the density only landscape. For another threshold value chosen as 0.75 then the fitness landscape for the density may be a piecewise continuous function possessing four maxima over the ranges indicated by the mid tone bars . As before the coupling yields a selection of about eight distance units as the optimal position.

Another example can be shown for a 3 tuple set of arrays to demonstrate the generality of this approach and its capability to couple sensor design parameters with the dynamical independent variables just explored a third sensor parameter may be introduced to characterize the sampling fraction defined to model the ability of air to enter the sensor s inlet port. Thus the sensor state vector forms the following 3 tuple relation 

The dimensionality of eqn. 15 implies defining the dimensionality of the flow vector such that the third entry of the latter couples to the sampling fraction model in a physicaly sensible way. By ignoring any back pressure based upon entrance air speed the flow vector can be expanded by adding an identity operator of value unity to its form as follows 1 16 leading to a 3 tuple configuration space array expressed as 

A topological map of the fitness function f shows variation over the planar landscape. The map includes a global maximum at landscape values of 28 and 60 for the first and second planar axes respectively. As indicated in the global maximum represents 1 optimized placement and orientation along the spatial r axis and 2 optimized design indicated here by a maximum sampling fraction along the axis .

For simplicity the temporal dependency is not included in the described illustrations of . The general surface is actually dynamic and thus an alternate selection the fitness function for this example would be 

The logic of the proposed tool and underlying algorithm is shown in illustrating a flowchart . The procedure begins with step to develop adequate models to simulate bulk environmental effects followed by step to develop models for key sensor functionalities. Subsequently at step the process continues to model the physical coupling between the sensor functionalities and the environment.

In particular at step the resulting functions depend upon the variables over which optimization will be performed. Additionally at step the algorithm correlates directly with the performance areas delineated above. The process continues at step to calculate a measure of value for the present state of the coupling and record. Then the process proceeds at step to modify the coupling.

This modification may be accomplished by any combination of a displacing the sensor b changing the environment and or c affecting a sensor design modification. Subsequently a query at step is performed to determine whether all desired variations have been evaluated. A negative response returns the process to repeat step until satisfaction of the query at step from which the process proceeds to step to perform optimization with a standard genetic algorithm over the set of all values derived in step . The algorithm pivots upon steps and where a value is assigned to the different possible configurations by employing a concept inspired by theoretical biology known as fitness.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

