---

title: Implant delivery system and method
abstract: An implant delivery system may comprise a catheter including at least one lumen, a guide wire configured to be received in the lumen, and an implant. The guide wire may comprise a clamping mechanism disposed about a distal end of the guide wire. The clamping mechanism may include a first and at least a second jaw wherein at least one of the jaws is configured to pivot between a closed position wherein the jaws define at least one internal cavity between the jaws configured to receive at least a portion of the implant and an open position configured to release the implant. The implant may be configured to be received in the lumen and may comprise a driver configured to be releasably received in the cavity of the clamping mechanism.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08852270&OS=08852270&RS=08852270
owner: Cardiosolutions, Inc.
number: 08852270
owner_city: West Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071115
---
The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

A human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure.

Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency. Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement is carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and is carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation is typically not recommended until the patient s ejection fraction drops below 60 and or the left ventricle is larger than 45 mm at rest.

Referring to a perspective view of one embodiment of a percutaneous delivery system for delivering and or recapturing a mitral valve implant within the heart is shown. The delivery system may include a mitral valve implant a catheter and a guide wire having a clamping mechanism configured to be releasably coupled to the mitral valve implant as will be explained in greater detail hereinbelow.

As shown the delivery system may include a catheter configured to be percutaneously introduced or inserted into one or more vessels of the body e.g. one or more veins and or arteries and conveyed to the heart for delivery and or recapture of the mitral valve implant . Conveyance of the catheter and or of the mitral valve implant to the heart may be directed and or assisted by monitoring the travel of the catheter e.g. via radiographic and or other imaging techniques and or by passing the catheter through another larger catheter already in place not shown . The catheter may have a length and outer diameter configured to extend from the incision site in the patient s body through one or more veins and or arteries to the desired location within the heart e.g. the left ventricle . Additionally the catheter may define at least one lumen having an internal diameter configured to receive and convey the guide wire the clamping mechanism and the implant from a first end of the catheter to a second end of the catheter . The catheter may include a flexible material having sufficient rigidity strength and inner lubricity to be guided through the blood vessels to the heart and to convey the implant . For example the catheter may include a combination or combinations of polymeric and or metallic materials having an inner diameter of between 5 French size and 50 French size an outer diameter of between 0.004 inches 0.250 inches larger than the corresponding inner diameter and a length of between 10 centimeters and 200 centimeters.

The guide wire may be configured to be disposed within the lumen of the catheter and may have a length greater than the length of the catheter . The guide wire may include a flexible wire having sufficient strength and or rigidity to convey and or urge the implant through the lumen of the catheter . For example the guide wire may include a combination or combinations of polymeric and or metallic materials having a diameter of between 0.004 inches and 0.060 inches and a length of between 100 centimeters and 500 centimeters.

A distal end of the guide wire may include a clamping mechanism configured to releasably engage a driver of the mitral valve implant . Referring to a close up of the clamping mechanism of is shown in the open and closed positions respectively. The clamping mechanism may include a first and at least a second jaw pivotably disposed relative to each other for example along a pivot point . The first and second jaws may form a clam shell arrangement that defines an internal cavity or region between the jaws sized and shaped to receive the driver of the implant when in the closed position as shown in . Additionally the clamping mechanism may include at least one opening or aperture when in the closed position configured to receive at least a portion of the implant for example the shaft . The opening may be disposed through one or more of the jaws .

According to one embodiment the clamping mechanism may include a lower jaw fixedly coupled to the guide wire and an upper jaw pivotably coupled to the lower jaw about a pivot point . The upper jaw may include an opening configured to receive at least a portion of the lower jaw when the upper and lower jaws are in the closed position. While the clamping mechanism is shown having two jaws the clamping mechanism may include three of more jaws. Additionally while the position of the lower jaw is shown generally fixed relative to the guide wire either or both of the jaws may be pivotably coupled relative to the guide wire .

As best seen in one or more of the interiors of the jaws may include at least one chamfered region which may be configured to engage a portion of the driver to open the clamping mechanism as will be explained further below. For example the upper and lower jaws may each include one or more of the chamfered regions disposed proximate a front or distal most end of the jaws . One or more of the chamfered regions may be configured to cam open the jaws .

Turning to the clamping mechanism may optionally include a biasing device configured to urge the jaws towards the open position. The biasing device may take the place of or be used in conjunction with the one or more of the chamfered regions . According to one embodiment the biasing device may include a spring or the like configured to urge the upper jaw relative to the lower jaw . One or more of the jaws of the clamping mechanism may optionally a shoulder region configured to engage a portion of the driver . For example a generally planar upright or perpendicular shoulder region may be configured to engage a generally planar upright or perpendicular shoulder region of the driver when the clamping mechanism is in the closed position preventing the driver from being released from the clamping mechanism as shown in . The shoulder region may also be configured to engage one or more chamfered regions of the driver as discussed below to facilitate opening of the clamping mechanism .

Turning now to the implant may include any mitral valve implant such as but not limited to a mitral valve implant disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 filed Oct. 26 2005 and entitled Heart Valve Implant which is fully incorporated herein by reference. For example the mitral valve implant may include a spacer or valve body portion for example a resiliently deformable spacer configured to be received in the lumen of the catheter which may be coupled to a shaft . The shaft may be coupled to at least one anchor portion configured to couple attach and or otherwise secure the mitral valve implant to native coronary tissue. According to one embodiment at least a portion of the anchor portion may include a generally helical screw or the like configured to be at least partially screwed into the native coronary tissue.

In general the mitral valve implant may be delivered within the heart and anchored to the native coronary tissue such that at least a portion of the spacer is disposed proximate a mitral valve and the mitral valve implant may interact and or cooperate with at least a portion of the native mitral valve to reduce and or eliminate excessive regurgitation. For example at least a portion of one or more cusps of the heart valve may interact with engage and or seal against at least a portion of the heart valve implant when the heart valve is in a closed condition. The interaction engagement and or sealing between at least a portion of at least one cusp and at least a portion of the heart valve implant may reduce and or eliminate regurgitation in a heart valve for example providing insufficient sealing including only a single cusp e.g. following removal of a diseased and or damaged cusp and or having a ruptured cordae. A heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be used in connection with various additional and or alternative defects and or deficiencies.

The implant may also include at least one driver configured to releasably engage the clamping mechanism of the guide wire . The driver may be coupled to at least a portion of the shaft . For example the driver may be rigidly or fixedly coupled about the distal end of the shaft generally opposite the anchoring portion . According to one embodiment the driver may be fixedly coupled to the distal end of the shaft using at least one set screw or the like extending through an aperture of the driver configured to engage a portion of the shaft . According to another embodiment the driver may be welded or integrally formed with the shaft .

The driver may be sized and shaped to be received in the cavity defined by the clamping mechanism such that a portion of the shaft may extend out from the cavity through the opening of the clamping mechanism when in the closed position. According to one embodiment the driver may include a non circular shape configured to engage the cavity of the clamping mechanism to substantially prevent rotation of the driver and therefore the mitral valve implant relative to the guide wire when in the closed position. As shown the driver may have a generally rectangular shape.

The driver may also include one or more chamfered regions configured to engage one or more of the jaws to cam open the clamping mechanism . According to one embodiment the driver may include a first a second chamfered region disposed about the upper and lower end regions of the driver proximate the attachment point and or interface between the driver and the shaft . The chambered regions may generally match or correspond to one or more chamfered regions of the jaws and may facilitate opening of the clamping mechanism .

In use the jaws of the clamping mechanism may be placed in the open position as generally shown in and the driver of the implant may be loaded into the cavity defined by the clamping mechanism . The jaws may then be closed around the driver as generally shown in such that the driver is received within the cavity of the clamping mechanism and at least a portion of the shaft of the implant extends through the opening of the clamping mechanism . The guide wire and the implant may then be loaded into a first end of the lumen of catheter with the anchor portion of the implant being loaded first. Once the guide wire and the implant are loaded into the lumen the internal diameter of the lumen may be small enough such that the internal surface of the lumen prevents the jaws of the clamping mechanism from opening and releasing the driver for example between 5 French size and 50 French size. As a result the clamping mechanism may engage the driver such that the driver may be substantially coupled to the guide wire while in the lumen . At least a portion of the implant for example the spacer may be deformable to facilitate loading of the implant within the lumen .

The guide wire and implant may then be conveyed through the lumen of the catheter for example by applying a force against the guide wire to urge the guide wire through the lumen until at least a portion of the anchor portion of the implant extends outwardly beyond the second end of the catheter and the clamping mechanism is at least partially received within the lumen of the catheter as generally shown in . Once the anchor portion of the implant is beyond the second end of the catheter the anchoring portion of the implant may be placed proximate the native coronary tissue and the guide wire and therefore the clamping mechanism may be rotated within the catheter . According to one embodiment the cavity and the driver may be configured such that the position of the driver may be generally fixed within the cavity of the clamping mechanism as discussed above. As a result rotation of the guide wire may cause the implant to rotate thereby causing the anchoring portion to rotate and engage the native coronary tissue in the heart thus securing the implant to the native coronary tissue in the heart.

Once the implant is secured to the native coronary tissue in the heart the catheter may be pulled back generally away from the implant in the direction of arrow A in until the clamping mechanism extends beyond the second end of the catheter . Once the clamping mechanism is exposed the implant may be released from the clamping mechanism . According to one embodiment the implant may be released from the clamping mechanism by pulling the guide wire generally away from the implant in the direction of arrow A. The chamfered regions of the jaws may be configured to slide along the chamfered regions of the driver to cam open the jaws and release the driver from the guide wire as generally shown in . Alternatively or in addition the biasing device of may urge jaws open thereby releasing the implant from the clamping mechanism once the clamping mechanism is outside of the catheter . In any event once the implant is released from the clamping mechanism the guide wire and clamping mechanism may then be retracted back into the lumen of the catheter and the catheter may be removed from the patient.

To recapture the implant the catheter may be placed proximate the implant . The guide wire may be loaded into the catheter and urged through the lumen until the clamping mechanism extends outwardly from the second end of the catheter . With the clamping mechanism in the open position as generally shown in the jaws may be placed over the driver and the catheter may be slide over the clamping mechanism causing the jaws to engage the driver as generally shown in . The anchor portion of the implant may then be unscrewed by rotating the guide wire and clamping mechanism . The implant may then be repositioned within the heart or retracted into the catheter by pulling the guide wire in the direction of arrow A.

The implant herein has been disclosed above in the context of a mitral valve implant. An implant consistent with the present disclosure may also suitably be employed in other applications e.g. as an implant associated with one of the other valves of the heart etc. The present disclosure should not therefore be construed as being limited to use for reducing and or preventing regurgitation of the mitral valve.

According to one aspect the present disclosure features an implant delivery system comprising a catheter including at least one lumen a guide wire configured to be received in the lumen and an implant. The guide wire may comprise a clamping mechanism disposed about a distal end of the guide wire. The implant may be configured to be received in the lumen and may comprise a driver configured to be releasably received in the clamping mechanism of the guide wire.

According to another aspect the present disclosure features a heart valve implant comprising a shaft a spacer at least one anchor coupled to a first end region of the shaft and a driver. The spacer may be coupled to the shaft and may be configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a heart valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. The driver may be coupled to a second end region of the shaft generally opposite the first end region.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure features an implant delivery system for delivering an implant. The implant delivery system may comprise a catheter including at least one lumen and a guide wire configured to be received in the lumen. The guide wire may comprise a clamping mechanism disposed about a distal end of the guide wire. The clamping mechanism may also include a first and at least a second jaw wherein at least one of the jaws is configured to pivot between a closed position wherein the jaws define at least one internal cavity between the jaws configured to receive at least a portion of the implant and an open position configured to release the implant.

According to yet a further embodiment the present disclosure features a method of delivering an implant within a heart using a guide wire. The implant may comprise a driver and the guide wire may comprise a clamping mechanism including a first and at least a second jaw. The method may comprise percutaneously delivering a catheter proximate the heart. The driver of the implant may be received within a cavity defined by the jaws of the clamping mechanism. The guide wire with the implant disposed within the cavity may be loaded into the catheter and conveyed through the catheter until an anchor portion of the implant extends outwardly beyond a distal end of the catheter and the clamping mechanism is still received within the catheter. The anchor portion of said implant may be secured within said heart. The guide wire may be conveyed through the catheter until the clamping mechanism and the implant are disposed outside of the catheter and the driver may be released from the clamping mechanism.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to a system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated or implied object or feature of the present disclosure and should not be limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. The foregoing description of a preferred embodiment of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the present disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as is suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the present disclosure as determined by the claims when interpreted in accordance with breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

