---

title: System and method for supporting multiple certificate authorities on a mobile communication device
abstract: A system and method for supporting operations with multiple certification authorities (CAs) on a communication device. A common CA interface is provided between a plurality of secure communication applications and a plurality of CA-specific components, each of which interacts with a particular CA. A further common interface may also be provided for operatively coupling the secure communication applications to cryptographic components in the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07757079&OS=07757079&RS=07757079
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 07757079
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20070326
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 398 428 filed Apr. 5 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 197 296 . U.S. Pat. No. 7 197 296 is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 484 278 filed Jan. 15 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 046 991 which is a 371 of PCT CA02 01117 filed Jul. 16 2002 which claims priority from U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 305 667 entitled A System And Method For Supporting Multiple Certification Authorities On A Mobile Communication Device filed Jul. 16 2001. By this reference the full disclosures including the drawings of each of these priority applications are incorporated herein.

This invention relates generally to the field of communications and in particular to secure communications.

In many modern communication systems security of information is a major concern. When a communication system or medium cannot be physically secured such as in wireless communication networks or wide area networks like the Internet a secure communication scheme may be critical. For example in so called electronic commerce e commerce and mobile commerce m commerce transactions credit card financial or other confidential or sensitive information must be transferred between parties. Such information is normally encrypted before being sent over a communication network and a receiver of the information then decrypts the encrypted information to recover the original information.

A typical problem in secure communication systems is managing the encryption and decryption of information. One known secure communication scheme is a so called public key scheme in which a public key is used to encrypt information and a corresponding private key is used for decryption. For example if two parties commonly referred to as Alice and Bob for illustrative purposes wish to securely exchange information then Alice must be able to decrypt any information encrypted for her by Bob and Bob must be able to decrypt any information encrypted for him by Alice. In a public key system Alice and Bob would each use a respective secret or private key a b to decrypt information which was encrypted using a corresponding public key A B. Therefore Alice and Bob are able to decrypt information which was encrypted using their respective public keys A B. Similarly in a public key system any sender must use the public key for an intended receiver of the information. Even though others may know the values of the public keys the corresponding private keys are required for decryption and are kept secret. The public and private keys are normally designed such that it is not computationally feasible to decrypt encrypted information or derive the private key using the public key.

Thus in order for a sender to securely send information to a receiver the sender must somehow obtain the receiver s public key otherwise the receiver will be unable to decrypt the received information. This key distribution function is normally performed by a certificate authority CA which maintains a record of public keys for a plurality of users in the system. A sender can then obtain the receivers public key from the CA and use the public key to encrypt information to be sent to the receiver. In the above example of Alice and Bob Alice may contact a CA to obtain Bob s public key B and then use the public key to encrypt transmissions to Bob. Using the private key b Bob is able to decrypt any encrypted information received from Alice.

In known systems a CA normally returns a digital certificate in response to a request for a public key. A digital certificate is generated by the CA and typically contains such certificate information as a name of the entity to which the public key corresponds commonly known as the subject name a date the certificate was issued the public key and possibly other information. The CA generates a digital signature which binds the entity or subject name to the public key for example by performing one or more preferably non invertible mathematical operations such as a hash on the certificate and applying a private key of the CA to the result. The certificate can then be validated by verifying this digital signature using the public key of the CA.

Some known systems similarly provide for verification of communications through private key generated signatures. For example when Alice wishes to communicate with Bob Alice may generate a digital signature using her private key a and append the digital signature to the information to be transmitted. Bob can then use Alice s public key A to verify the digital signature and thereby confirm that the information was actually sent by Alice.

However not every entity that may be involved in secure communications is registered with a single global CA. Many different CAs currently exist any of which may be chosen by an entity to manage its public key. Since each CA may use different information transfer protocols an information sender may need to support the transfer protocols of multiple CAs for example where the particular operations or applications resident on a system require access to different CAs. In communication devices such as mobile communication devices which tend to have limited memory and processing resources multiple CA support becomes particularly challenging.

In accordance with the teachings disclosed herein a system and method are provided for supporting operations with multiple CAs on a communication device. A common CA interface is provided between a plurality of secure communication applications and a plurality of CA specific components each of which interacts with a particular CA. A further common interface may also be provided for operatively coupling the secure communication applications to cryptographic components in the device. Further features of the system and method will be described or will become apparent in the course of the following detailed description.

A mobile device on which multiple CAs may be supported in accordance with the teachings herein may for example be a data communication device a voice communication device a dual mode communication device such as a mobile telephone having data communications capabilities enabled for both voice and data communications a two way pager a personal digital assistant PDA enabled for communications or a desktop palmtop or laptop computer having a wireless modem. Other types of mobile devices on which support for multiple CAs may also be desirable or required will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

The CA interfaces provide an interface between a corresponding application component and a CA provider component . The provider components enable communications between a CA and the mobile device application components. Crypto components and are effectively encryption decryption modules and perform such cryptographic functions as encryption digital signature generation decryption and digital signature verification.

The radio interface and radio API provide the applications with access to the communication functions and capabilities of the communication device. Through the interface and radio API an application may perform any required communication functions by using for example function calls or other such software code or modules compatible with the radio API .

With reference to one of the applications in particular application overall operation of the system in will be described. During the execution of application A suppose that a certain operation requires that information be securely exchanged with a particular party. Through the corresponding CA interface A the application may invoke processing in the CA provider component A to request a public key for the other party from the particular CA. As described above the request may be signed with a digital signature generated by the crypto components A and the request itself may also be encrypted by the crypto components A . The provider component A then sends the request through the radio interface and radio API to the appropriate CA system not shown which may for example be configured for operation on the Internet or other network accessible to the mobile device.

When a certificate is received from the CA the provider component A parses the certificate and passes the certificate and digital signature if present to the crypto components A for decryption if necessary and digital signature verification. After the certificate has been verified the public key therein in conjunction with a cipher algorithm which the crypto components A are configured to apply can be used by the crypto components to encrypt any information from the application A to be sent to the other party. The crypto components A similarly operate to decrypt any received encrypted information for application A using the private key associated with the mobile device or a user of the mobile device and a cipher algorithm. Received digital signatures may be verified using a public key of a sender which may be stored on the mobile device or requested from a CA as described above.

A further function of the CA interface A CA provider component A and crypto components A for application A is to provide the public key associated with the mobile device or user to the corresponding CA when required. For example if the device generates selects or is otherwise provided with a new key pair including a new private key and a new public key then the CA for application should be updated to reflect the new public key. Otherwise secure communication operations between the mobile device application and another party registered with the CA for application A may fail. If the CA is not updated when a device key pair changes the other party may retrieve an old copy of the public key of the mobile device or user from the CA and may then be unable to encrypt information in a format that can be decrypted at the mobile device and may not be able to verify any digital signatures appended to communications from the mobile device since the mobile device and the other party are using keys from different key pairs. The old private key may be used by the crypto components A to generate a digital signature and at least an identity associated with the mobile device or user the new public key and the digital signature are then sent to the CA through the provider component A . The new public key will normally be registered with the CA upon verification of the digital signature by the CA using the old public key.

As is apparent from each application includes in addition to an application component custom CA related and crypto components that are specific to a particular CA or CA provider. In applications and use different CA providers A B and C. Although more than one of the applications might be configured for the same CA provider separate interface provider and crypto components are included in each application in known systems. Therefore each application is specific to a particular CA provider.

For example application may be a banking application such that the corresponding CA provider is chosen and trusted by the particular bank with which application A is designed to operate. Similarly the operators of a confidential database may choose a different CA provider for a remote database query application application for example which would then be developed specifically for the particular CA provider. Even if the same CA provider is selected for both the banking application and the remote query application known systems do not provide mechanisms whereby a CA interface a CA provider component and crypto components can be shared between applications. This may lead to relatively large application file size which can quickly exhaust available memory and processing resources particularly in such communication devices as mobile devices with typically limited memory space and processing capabilities.

A multiple CA handler may be used to more efficiently process secure messages involving one or more CAs. There are many configurations possible for the CA handler software. For example is a system block diagram illustrating a communication system with multiple CAs. depicts use of multiple CA handlers on receiver mobile devices for processing secure messages from a sender .

The communication system shown in includes a sender system a Wide Area Network WAN three CAs wireless infrastructure a wireless communication network and first and second receiver mobile devices . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that communication systems may have many different topologies and that the system shown in is intended for illustrative purposes only. For example although only one sender and two mobile devices are shown in a typical communication system may include thousands or more computers systems and mobile devices. Senders and receivers may also communicate through multiple WANs and wireless networks.

The sender system may for example be a personal computer laptop computer or palmtop computer which is associated with a software application operating on the receiver mobile devices and . For example the sender system may be a host system by which messages addressed to the sender system are sent to a corresponding mobile device or . The sender system could also be an electronic messaging client configured to send and possibly receive secure email messages. For an electronic banking application on a mobile device the sender may be a networked computer in a Local Area Network LAN installed at a bank. Other types of sender systems are also contemplated.

The WAN will typically be the Internet. The sender CAs and wireless infrastructure may be connected to the WAN directly as shown or through an Internet Service Provider ISP Application Service Provider ASP or other intermediate system.

The three CAs are associated with and store the public keys of the sender the first receiver and the second receiver respectively. Even though the CAs are associated with different entities i.e. the sender system and receiver mobile devices any of the entities can access any of the CAs through the WAN such that any of the entities may exchange secure communications with any of the other entities using public key crypto techniques.

Wireless infrastructure component may be a gateway system which bridges the WAN and the wireless network providing such functionality as protocol translation mobile device address translation and any other operations required in order to deliver communications from the WAN to the mobile devices . Although shown in as a separate component wireless infrastructure may form part of the WAN or wireless network or both networks may incorporate some of the functionality of the wireless infrastructure .

The mobile devices are configured for operation within the wireless network which may be any of a plurality of different wireless communication networks. An example mobile device is described in further detail below in conjunction with .

In a secure messaging system the sender may use its own private key to generate digital signatures for secure messages that are to be sent. The sender may also communicate with the receivers respective CAs to obtain each receiver s public key to encrypt the messages . The sender may communicate with each CA through a custom CA interface as shown in and described above or may also include a multiple CA handler not shown . Communications with any of the CAs shown in may be established through the WAN . In some systems CAs may instead be connected in a LAN for access by any computer systems and possibly mobile devices configured for access to the LAN.

The secure messages from the sender ultimately are transmitted to the receiver mobile devices . The mobile devices include multiple CA handlers which may be implemented as software modules for example to more efficiently process the secure messages with respect to the CAs involved. Processing may include decryption as well as other security processing such as digital signature verification. Normally when a public key and or certificate information is required by a mobile device a request is submitted to the appropriate CA which returns a digital certificate and possibly other certificate information to the mobile device .

The nature and content of the secure messages may be different for different types of operations or software applications. For example in the context of a banking software application operating on the mobile devices the secure messages may include transaction or financial information and a multiple CA handler on the receiver mobile devices may retrieve public key s required for digital signature verification and or decryption from one or more CAs.

It should be noted that as shown in not all parties to a communication exchange must necessarily implement a multiple CA handler. A multiple CA handler simplifies interactions between a mobile device and a CA but is an optional component that preferably does not affect actual communications between mobile devices and other recipients. Multiple CA handlers provide a mechanism for obtaining digital certificates and possibly further certificate information from one or more CAs but may be implemented so as not to change the way in which communication signals generated using such information are transmitted or received.

In the mobile device software applications are configured to operate with the common CA interface instead of a particular CA or CA provider. An application communication link is provided between the common CA interface and each application through which data such as a security related request for information for a CA from an application and information returned by a CA in response to such a request may be exchanged with the applications. It should be understood that a mobile device may support an application using the common CA interface to obtain information from a CA as well as other applications using custom components particular to a CA. A mobile device in which a multiple CA handler has been implemented may thereby be backwards compatible with older software applications using custom components to communicate with a CA.

When information is exchanged with a CA such as to register or request a public key for example an application invokes any required processing at the appropriate CA provider component . If necessary to encrypt information to be sent to the CA or to generate a digital signature for example the provider component then sends crypto related requests and information to the device crypto components for processing via its respective crypto interface . Encrypted information and or digital signatures are similarly received by a provider component e.g. from the crypto components through its interface . In encryption decryption and digital signature generation or verification operations are performed in the single set of device crypto components .

Information is preferably sent from and received by the applications through the radio interface and the radio API . Each application may incorporate a software module or set of function calls associated with the radio interface and or the radio API . It is also possible that one or more of the provider components may include such modules or function calls associated with the radio interface and or API in order to exchange information with a CA directly although the arrangement shown in may provide for a more compact software system since only the software applications not both the software applications and provider components incorporate radio software modules.

The applications are shown as applications involving secure communications. These applications may be shopping or other e commerce applications electronic messaging applications banking applications query or search applications for confidential remote databases for example but may be any applications for which secure information transfer may be desired or required. However it should be understood that a mobile device may also include further applications not shown including applications providing communication functions that do not require secure communications. More or fewer than the example four secure communication applications shown in may also be resident on a device. The multiple CA support arrangements described herein are in no way limited to a particular number or type of application.

For an application developer the common CA interface provides a single interface for communicating with a CA. Applications need not be CA specific and may be written for operation with the common interface . Application developers therefore may elect to design a single standardized application interface.

In addition the application development process is not dependent upon the particular CA or CA provider that will eventually be used for secure communications associated with the application. An application is developed on the basis of the common interface the information that may be provided to or required from the application by the common CA interface and the format of such information. A particular CA or provider can then be chosen after the application has been substantially completed or even after the application has been installed on a mobile device. For example a particular CA may be chosen from those for which the associated provider component is resident on a mobile device. The common CA interface may then act as a router of a security related request to such a chosen provider component and handle the details needed for the request to be understood by the chosen provider component. The common interface may also provide for changing the selected CA for an application or possibly interaction of a single application with more than one CA.

Provider software code including a provider component e.g. and a crypto interface is accessible to and usable by more than one application. Applications which use the same CA or provider such as applications A and D for example can thereby share a single copy of the provider A software code . The total memory space occupied by secure communications applications and associated provider code can thereby be reduced relative to memory requirements for known systems such as shown in .

A CA provider component may similarly be developed for operation with the common interface . CA specific protocols and information formats are thereby effectively hidden from the mobile device applications. By adapting its respective provider component for operation with the common interface a CA or provider may make its services available to any application on a mobile device instead of only to custom or specially developed applications.

Crypto interfaces may perform such functions as certificate parsing in order to provide certificate and key information to the device crypto components that are shared between all secure communication applications on a mobile device. For example crypto interface A may be an X.509 certificate parser crypto interface B may be an X9.68 certificate parser whereas crypto interface C may parse some other type of certificate. The device crypto components may then be configured to process information from any of these parsers. Thus a single set of device crypto components provides cryptographic functions for all device secure communication applications.

A common CA interface may provide for memory space savings in that each application need not include CA specific components and applications using the same CA or provider may share a provider component and crypto interface.

Further memory space savings may be realized by adapting provider components to operate with a single set of device crypto components. is a software block diagram illustrating an alternative example mobile device that supports multiple CAs. In the mobile device includes a common crypto interface between the CA provider components and the crypto components . CA provider components are adapted to operate with the common crypto interface . The common crypto interface provides access to the device crypto components for the secure communication applications and provider components on the mobile device by providing crypto related requests for crypto functions to the device crypto components for example.

The supported CA providers may use the same type of certificates such that certificate parsing for all providers may be performed at the common crypto interface instead of by each provider component . The provider components then pass received certificates to the interface . This arrangement allows a single parser to be used on the mobile device instead of a parser for each provider component such as described above in reference to the crypto interfaces in . A CA provider which uses a different type of certificate may adapt its respective provider component to incorporate a certificate translation function to thereby allow operation of its CA system with the device applications and crypto component . It should also be understood that one or more applications may use the common crypto interface while another application uses its own crypto components or includes a custom interface to the crypto components .

At step the secure message is created through use of the obtained certificate information and the secure message is transmitted to one or more receivers at step . When the secure message has been sent the process ends at step .

The method shown in may be repeated each time a software application is to create a secure message. A security related request from the software application may be sent to an appropriate CA provider component through a common CA interface in order to obtain certificate information to be used in preparing the secure message from a respective CA.

If a digital signature is involved as determined at step then a software application on the receiver mobile device uses the multiple CA handler to obtain the senders certificate information at step . At process block the digital signature is verified using the obtained certificate information. The message is further processed and used by the mobile device at process block . Processing for this example terminates at end block .

It will be appreciated that the above description relates to preferred embodiments by way of example only. Many variations on the invention will be obvious to those knowledgeable in the field and such obvious variations are within the scope of the invention whether or not expressly described. For example although described primarily in the context of a mobile communication device the systems and methods described herein are in no way limited thereto. These systems and methods are also applicable to other types of communication devices including non mobile devices. Mobile devices such as mobile data communication devices mobile email devices cellular telephones two way pagers and PDAs enabled for communications tend to have more limited memory and processing resources than other devices including for example wired or wireless modems connected to computer systems and may therefore derive greater benefit from the memory savings associated with the above systems and methods. However these systems and methods in addition to conserving memory space provide flexibility in CA related operations and thus provide further benefits for application developers and CA providers regardless of the type of communication device.

The system and method described above may be implemented in conjunction with many different types of mobile device. is a block diagram of one such example wireless mobile communication device. The mobile device is a dual mode mobile device and includes a transceiver a microprocessor a display Flash memory random access memory RAM one or more auxiliary input output I O devices a serial port a keyboard a speaker a microphone a short range wireless communications sub system and may also include other device sub systems .

The transceiver includes a receiver a transmitter antennas and one or more local oscillators and a digital signal processor DSP . The antennas and may be antenna elements of a multiple element antenna and are preferably embedded antennas. However the systems and methods described herein are in no way restricted to a particular type of antenna.

Within the Flash memory the device preferably includes a plurality of software modules A N that can be executed by the microprocessor and or the DSP including a voice communication module A a data communication module B and a plurality of other operational modules N for carrying out a plurality of other functions.

The mobile device is preferably a two way communication device having voice and data communication capabilities. Thus for example the mobile device may communicate over a voice network such as any of the analog or digital cellular networks and may also communicate over a data network. The voice and data networks are depicted in by the communication tower . These voice and data networks may be separate communication networks using separate infrastructure such as base stations network controllers etc. or they may be integrated into a single wireless network.

The transceiver is used to communicate with the network or networks and includes the receiver the transmitter the one or more local oscillators and may also include the DSP . The DSP is used to send and receive signals to and from the transceivers and and may also provide control information to the receiver and the transmitter . If the voice and data communications occur at a single frequency or closely spaced sets of frequencies then a single local oscillator may be used in conjunction with the receiver and the transmitter . Alternatively if different frequencies are utilized for voice communications versus data communications for example then a plurality of local oscillators can be used to generate a plurality of frequencies corresponding to the voice and data networks . Information which includes both voice and data information is communicated to and from the transceiver via a link between the DSP and the microprocessor .

The detailed design of the transceiver such as frequency band component selection power level etc. will be dependent upon the communication network in which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device intended to operate in a North American market may include a transceiver designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communication networks such as the Mobitex or DataTAC mobile data communication networks AMPS TDMA CDMA PCS etc. whereas a mobile device intended for use in Europe may be configured to operate with the General Packet Radio Service GPRS data communication network and the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM voice communication network. Other types of data and voice networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with a mobile device .

Depending upon the type of network or networks the access requirements for the mobile device may also vary. For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC data networks mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique identification number associated with each mobile device. In GPRS data networks however network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a mobile device. A GPRS device typically requires a subscriber identity module SIM which is required in order to operate a mobile device on a GPRS network. Local or non network communication functions if any may be operable without the SIM device but a mobile device will be unable to carry out any functions involving communications over the data network other than any legally required operations such as 911 emergency calling.

After any required network registration or activation procedures have been completed the mobile device may the send and receive communication signals including both voice and data signals over the networks . Signals received by the antenna from the communication network are routed to the receiver which provides for signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of the received signal allows more complex communication functions such as digital demodulation and decoding to be performed using the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted to the network are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP and are then provided to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the communication network via the antenna .

In addition to processing the communication signals the DSP also provides for transceiver control. For example the gain levels applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP . Other transceiver control algorithms could also be implemented in the DSP in order to provide more sophisticated control of the transceiver .

The microprocessor preferably manages and controls the overall operation of the mobile device . Many types of microprocessors or microcontrollers could be used here or alternatively a single DSP could be used to carry out the functions of the microprocessor . Low level communication functions including at least data and voice communications are performed through the DSP in the transceiver . Other high level communication applications such as a voice communication application A and a data communication application B may be stored in the Flash memory for execution by the microprocessor . For example the voice communication module A may provide a high level user interface operable to transmit and receive voice calls between the mobile device and a plurality of other voice or dual mode devices via the network . Similarly the data communication module B may provide a high level user interface operable for sending and receiving data such as e mail messages files organizer information short text messages etc. between the mobile device and a plurality of other data devices via the networks . The microprocessor also interacts with other device subsystems such as the display Flash memory RAM auxiliary input output I O subsystems serial port keyboard speaker microphone a short range communications subsystem and any other device subsystems generally designated as .

Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. Notably some subsystems such as keyboard and display may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over a data communication network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list or other PDA type functions.

Operating system software used by the microprocessor is preferably stored in a persistent store such as Flash memory . In addition to the operating system which controls low level functions of the mobile device the Flash memory may include a plurality of high level software application programs or modules such as a voice communication module A a data communication module B an organizer module not shown or any other type of software module N. These modules are executed by the microprocessor and provide a high level interface between a user and the mobile device . This interface typically includes a graphical component provided through the display and an input output component provided through the auxiliary I O keyboard speaker and microphone . The operating system specific device applications or modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM for faster operation. Moreover received communication signals may also be temporarily stored to RAM before permanently writing them to a file system located in a persistent store such as the Flash memory .

An exemplary application module N that may be loaded onto the mobile device is a personal information manager PIM application providing PDA functionality such as calendar events appointments and task items. This module N may also interact with the voice communication module A for managing phone calls voice mails etc. and may also interact with the data communication module for managing e mail communications and other data transmissions. Alternatively all of the functionality of the voice communication module A and the data communication module B may be integrated into the PIM module.

The Flash memory preferably also provides a file system to facilitate storage of PIM data items on the device. The PIM application preferably includes the ability to send and receive data items either by itself or in conjunction with the voice and data communication modules A B via the wireless networks . The PIM data items are preferably seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless networks with a corresponding set of data items stored or associated with a host computer system thereby creating a mirrored system for data items associated with a particular user.

Other types of software applications that may be installed on the mobile device include secure communications applications enabling secure messaging as well as banking and other e commerce and m commerce applications for example. The common CA interface and or common crypto interface may be implemented as further software modules in the Flash memory RAM or another memory not shown in the mobile device . Any applications enabling or requiring secure communications may then use the common interfaces for public key crypto operations as described above.

The mobile device may be manually synchronized with a host system by placing the device in an interface cradle which couples the serial port of the mobile device to the serial port of a computer system or device. The serial port may also be used to enable a user to set preferences through an external device or software application or to download other application modules N for installation. This wired download path may be used to load an encryption key onto the device which is a more secure method than exchanging encryption information via the wireless network . Interfaces for other wired download paths may be provided in the mobile device in addition to or instead of the serial port . For example a USB port would provide an interface to a similarly equipped personal computer.

Additional application modules N may be loaded onto the mobile device through the networks through an auxiliary I O subsystem through the serial port through the short range communications subsystem or through any other suitable subsystem and installed by a user in the Flash memory or RAM . Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile device .

When the mobile device is operating in a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or a web page download will be processed by the transceiver module and provided to the microprocessor which will preferably further process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to an auxiliary I O device . A user of mobile device may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard which is preferably a complete alphanumeric keyboard laid out in the QWERTY style although other styles of complete alphanumeric keyboards such as the known DVORAK style may also be used. User input to the mobile device is further enhanced with a plurality of auxiliary I O devices which may include a thumbwheel input device a touchpad a variety of switches a rocker input switch etc. The composed data items input by the user may then be transmitted over the communication networks via the transceiver module .

When the mobile device is operating in a voice communication mode the overall operation of the mobile device is substantially similar to the data mode except that received signals are preferably be output to the speaker and voice signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is preferably accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information. For example the microprocessor in conjunction with the voice communication module and the operating system software may detect the caller identification information of an incoming voice call and display it on the display .

A short range communications subsystem may also be included in the mobile device . For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a short range RF communication module such as a Bluetooth module or an 802.11 module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that Bluetooth and 802.11 refer to sets of specifications available from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers relating to wireless personal area networks and wireless local area networks respectively.

