---

title: Wireless device, program products and methods of using a wireless device to deliver services
abstract: In at least one embodiment, a mobile device receives previous route traversal information for a route from a server. During a subsequent traversal of the route, the mobile device determines comparative split information for the subsequent traversal by reference to the previous route traversal information and presents the comparative split information during traversal of the route.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07953549&OS=07953549&RS=07953549
owner: adidas AG
number: 07953549
owner_city: Herzogenaurach
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20071031
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 169 863 filed on Jun. 29 2005 and entitled Wireless Device Program Products and Methods of Using a Wireless Device to Deliver Services which is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 759 289 filed on Jan. 16 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 292 867 and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 584 300 field on Jun. 30 2004. These applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates in general to wireless communication and in particular to the use of a wireless device to deliver services.

As Global Positioning System GPS technology has matured location aware electronics have been integrated into a number of different mobile platforms such as automobiles mobile telephones two way radios and hand held GPS receivers in order to provide location information. Location awareness supports the provision of various location based services.

Portable and or wireless electronic devices have also been developed or adapted for use in various commercial personal or leisure activities to assist people in performing the activity and or to enhance the enjoyment and or efficiency of the activity. Such electronic devices may or may not be GPS enabled.

In at least one embodiment a mobile device receives previous route traversal information for a route from a server. During a subsequent traversal of the route the mobile device determines comparative split information for the subsequent traversal by reference to the previous route traversal information and presents the comparative split information during traversal of the route.

With reference now to the figures and in particular with reference to there is depicted an exemplary embodiment of an environment in which the methods systems and program products of the present invention may advantageously be practiced. In particular illustrates an environment in which a location aware portable fitness device is utilized by an athlete while engaged in a fitness activity such as running cycling hiking climbing skiing etc.

As shown environment includes a constellation of earth orbiting global positioning system GPS satellites . As is known in the art GPS satellites continuously emit GPS signals which enable GPS equipped devices such as portable fitness device to continuously determine their position velocity bearing and elevation as long as a sufficient number of GPS satellites can be acquired.

Environment further includes a wireless wide area network WAN communication system including a plurality of geographically distributed communication towers and base station systems BSS only one of each is illustrated for simplicity . Communication tower includes one or more antennae supporting long range two way radio frequency communication wireless devices such as portable fitness device . The radio frequency communication wireless devices such as portable fitness device . The radio frequency signals conforming to any known or future developed wireless protocol for example CDMA GSM EDGE 3G IEEE 802.x e.g. IEEE 802.16 WiMAX etc. The information transmitted over the air by BSS and cellular communication tower to portable fitness device may be further transmitted to or received from one or more additional circuit switched or packet switched communication networks including for example the Internet .

As is well known to those skilled in the art Internet is a worldwide collection of servers routers switches and transmission lines that employ the Internet Protocol IP to communicate data. For example Internet may be employed to communicate data between any of server computer system client computer system and portable fitness device . For example as described further below Internet may be utilized to communicate to portable fitness device route information from a route database stored within data storage associated with server computer system . Similarly portable fitness device may transmit route and performance information to server computer system for storage in training journal database via Internet BSS and communication tower . In addition a user stationed at a remote client computer system for example athlete a remote trainer or other user may access real time or historical performance information regarding the training of athlete via server computer system and Internet .

Referring now to there is illustrated a high level block diagram of an exemplary implementation of portable training device in accordance with the present invention. As illustrated portable training device includes a central processing unit CPU that controls the operation of portable fitness device in accordance with client software described further below with respect to . As shown CPU is coupled either directly or indirectly to a variety of different components within portable fitness device . For example portable fitness device includes an internal memory device for storing the client software as well as various route performance and environmental information regarding a training activity of athlete . The storage provided by internal memory device may be further augmented by a removable storage medium inserted within removable memory slot and or dedicated audio storage for storing audio data. The audio data may include for example music tracks encoded in MAP3 format synthesized human speech tracks voice annotations by athlete recorded via an internal or external microphone as well as other audio data.

In addition to microphone portable fitness device may include a number of other input output I O devices. For example portable fitness device may include one or more manually manipulable input buttons that permit athlete to start and stop recording of GPS data annotate a route while athlete is traversing the route and or to enter desired settings of portable fitness device . Portable fitness device may also include a speaker and display through which portable fitness device may present real time performance information e.g. elapsed distance elapsed time pace distance to go heart rate etc. turn by turn directions real time remote training recommendations maps and other information in audio and or visual format.

Portable fitness device is equipped with a power supply that powers CPU and the other components of portable fitness device . Power supply includes a battery and may further have an associated power port through which the battery may be charged from an AC power source. Alternatively the battery within power supply may be charged utilizing a wireless inductive charging device as is known in the art.

Portable fitness device further includes a GPS receiver and associated GPS antenna that receive GPS signals from GPS satellites . GPS receiver processes GPS signals to present to CPU time stamped waypoints which include at least a time a latitude and a longitude. If at least four GPS satellites have been acquired the time stamped waypoints presented to CPU by GPS receiver preferably further include an elevation. As discussed further below the time and position information supplied by GPS receiver is utilized by client software running on CPU to build a record of a route traversed by athlete and to determine performance information e.g. elapsed distance elapsed time pace distance to go heart rate etc. regarding the athlete s traversal of the route.

Portable training device supports two way wireless WAN communication with communication tower with WAN transceiver and its associated antenna . As known to those skilled in the art WAN transceiver includes a receiver for receiving radio frequency signals and a transmitter for transmitting radio frequency signals . As discussed in greater detail below radio frequency signals may include route information transmitted to portable fitness device route and performance information transmitted from portable fitness device settings for portable fitness device and one or two way voice communication e.g. a voice conversation between athlete and a remote trainer stationed at remote client computer . The data sent and received by WAN transceiver may alternatively be communicated via an optional data port which may employ short range wired or wireless communication e.g. RS 232 or infrared .

In order to support communication with other electronics within close range portable fitness device may be further equipped with one or more local wireless interface s and associated antennae . For example local wireless interface s may include interfaces for 802.11x Bluetooth 900 mHz communication or the like. Utilizing such technologies portable fitness device may communicate with or sense data from a heart rate monitor headphones shoes and a watch worn by athlete during a fitness activity. In this manner portable fitness device may gather information regarding athlete such as his her heart rate and body temperature and if the athlete s shoes are equipped with an RFID tag the shoes worn during the fitness activity. Portable fitness device may similarly present to the user performance directional and training information via watch and headphones .

Of course in alternative embodiments portable fitness device may sense or communicate with particular devices utilizing wired or wireless interfaces. For example microphone may alternatively be incorporated within wireless headphones and heart rate monitor may alternatively be coupled to CPU via a wired interface. Thus those skilled in the art will appreciate from the block diagram provided in that any number of internal or external devices and sensors such as temperature and barometric pressure sensor may be coupled to CPU via either wired or wireless interfaces. In this manner client software running on CPU may associate with the time and position information provided by GPS receiver various data of interest regarding athlete his her environment and the route being traversed. The data may be stored locally by portable fitness device for example within internal memory device or transmitted over the air by WAN transceiver possibly in real time.

It will further be appreciated that portable fitness device may be implemented as a special purpose device or may alternatively be realized on a conventional portable device platform such as a mobile telephone MP3 player digital camera PDA etc.

With reference now to there is illustrated a layer diagram of an exemplary software configuration of portable fitness device in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated the software configuration of portable fitness device includes at a lowest level an operating system OS that provides a collection of services such as thread scheduling memory management interrupts etc. that may be accessed by higher level software. Running on top of operating system is a runtime environment such as one of the JAVA or BREW runtime environments. Finally the software configuration of portable fitness device includes a portable fitness device client running on top of runtime environment . Portable fitness device client may be downloaded to portable fitness device over the air for example via the wireless WAN and WAN transceiver .

As illustrated portable fitness device client comprises a number of individual modules each performing a function of portable fitness device . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the illustrated modules are illustrative rather than exhaustive and that portable fitness device client may include additional or alternative modules to support or extend the functionality of portable fitness device .

As shown in the modules within portable fitness device client preferably include a number of reader modules . GPS reader receives from GPS receiver time stamped waypoints including at least time latitude and longitude information and depending upon implementation and the number of GPS satellites from which GPS signals were received elevation and error information. Utilizing the time stamped waypoints received from GPS receiver GPS reader calculates performance and route information for athlete . For example GPS reader may determine the start and stop times at which a route was begun and ended an elapsed time an elapsed distance distance remaining in the route elevation change average elevation current pace average pace bearing etc.

The remainder of readers for example heart rate reader and annotation reader similarly obtain input data and associate the input data with a corresponding time stamped waypoint obtained by GPS reader . Readers may also perform additional calculations to determine instantaneous differential or cumulative quantitative characterizations of the route the performance of athlete or of his her environment. Thus for example heart rate reader may obtain an instantaneous heart rate reading from heart rate monitor associate that heart rate reading with the time stamped waypoint obtained by GPS reader and calculate an average heart rate. Similarly annotation reader may store a route annotation entered by athlete via input buttons or microphone with a time stamped waypoint obtained by GPS reader .

The data gathered and calculated by readers are then parsed and formatted by formatter into a predetermined data format that associates the performance and route data with a timestamp and geographical location. The particular data format employed by data formatter is implementation dependent but is preferably compact to conserve the capacity of internal memory device and the bandwidth of the communication link between portable training device and the wireless WAN. Storage capacity and wireless communication bandwidth may further be conserved by applying a data compressor to the formatted data produced by data formatter .

After data obtained and calculated by readers have been formatted by data formatter and optionally compressed by data compressor the data are either stored within internal memory device or audio storage or a removal memory loaded in removable memory slot or are transmitted over the air via WAN transceiver . Upload manager and route and performance recorder determine whether or not to upload and or store data locally based upon one or more criteria for example whether WAN transceiver can acquire a connection to the wireless WAN the available storage within internal memory real time and or other criteria. If based upon these and or other criteria upload manager decides to upload the formatted and compressed data upload manager outputs the data via WAN transceiver and antenna to client computer system and or server computer system utilizing radio frequency signals . Data transmitted to client computer system is typically graphically presented within a display device and data transmitted to server computer system is typically stored within training journal database .

As noted above portable training device may alternatively receive data over the air from the wireless WAN. In a preferred embodiment the data received over the air from the wireless WAN may include route information transmitted by server computer system from route database settings of portable fitness device transmitted by server computer system or client computer system and training recommendations transmitted from server computer system or client computer system . Route information which may be identified as such for example by an XML header is received processed and stored by route storage manager . The route information may be for example turn by turn directions keyed to particular geographical areas defined by a latitude and longitude range duple. By storing route information in this format when GPS reader obtains a time stamped waypoint falling within a particular geographic area defined by a latitude and longitude range duple audio presentation module can present an audible instruction to athlete via speaker and or headphones to direct athlete how to traverse a desired route.

Settings data which may be identified as such for example by an XML header is initially received processed and output by data decompressor is then subsequently processed by settings manager . For example settings manager may utilize settings data to update storage locations within internal memory device governing particular aspects of the operation of portable training device . In addition based upon the received settings settings manager may notify upload manager or route and performance recorder to initiate upload or storage of route and performance information.

Training recommendations received processed and output by data decompressor are subsequently processed by training input manager . These training recommendations preferably take the form of either voice data communicated by a human trainer utilizing for example a voice over IP VoIP connection to portable training device or a predetermined data command representing an audio message. In the former case training input manager exports the audio data directly to audio presentation module which in turn directly presents the audio data to athlete via headphones and or speaker . If however the training recommendation takes the form of a data command representing an audio message training input manager locates an audio track within audio storage or internal memory device corresponding to the data command and presents the audio track to audio presentation module for subsequent presentation to athlete . In this manner a remote human trainer who may be stationed at client computer system or an automated training plan service may provide training recommendations directly to athlete in substantially real time. And if portable training device is equipped with a microphone athlete may similarly communicate audibly with the remote trainer e.g. via VoIP through the execution of annotation reader data formatter data compressor and upload manager .

Audio presentation module is also preferably equipped to present in audio format turn by turn directions correcting the course of an athlete to return to a route if a turn is missed as well as turn by turn directions providing the most direct return path to the starting point. Such turn by turn directions are preferably computed by server computer system based upon real time location information received over the air from portable fitness device and then transmitted to portable fitness device again utilizing over the air communication via the wireless WAN. Audio presentation module may also be utilized to decode and present audio entertainment tracks such as the MP3 files stored within audio storage .

As further depicted in portable fitness device client includes a visual presentation module that manages the presentation of route performance and environmental information to athlete via optional display and or the display of watch . It should be noted however that it is presently preferred to present data of all types to athlete during the course of a fitness activity in audio format so that the concentration and attention of athlete is not diverted from training efforts.

Finally route publication manager of portable fitness device client supports the sharing of routes between multiple portable fitness devices for example utilizing the local wireless interface WAN transceiver or data port . In this manner an athlete can directly share selected routes e.g. as identified utilizing input buttons to other athletes having compatible portable fitness devices .

Referring now to there is depicted a layer diagram of an exemplary software configuration of server computer system of that in accordance with the present invention provides an automated web based route generation route journaling route visualization and other services. The services may be offered to a plurality of athletes or other users forming a user community may be restricted to users that have been issued login IDs and passwords for accessing server and may further be offered in exchange for a subscription fee.

As shown at the lowest layer the software configuration of server computer system includes an operating system OS which is preferably one of the commercially available operating systems such as Windows UNIX LINUX AIX etc. OS has an associated application programming interface API though which middleware and application programs may access the services of OS .

Running on top of OS is a hypertext transport protocol HTTP server which as is well known in the art communicates data over Internet utilizing HTTP. In particular HTTP server supports data communication with portable fitness device and one or more remote client computers utilizing HTTP. Communication with server computer system may alternatively or additionally be conducted utilizing a sockets layer interface or other lower layer protocol running over IP.

In addition to HTTP server the application software of server computer system includes a number of different modules supporting the client side functionality provided by portable fitness device client . In the depicted embodiment these modules include a route generation and publication module a data recorder module and a visualization module . Those skilled in the art will again appreciate that alternative or additional modules may be implemented within server computer system in order to provide or extend the described or additional functionality.

Route generation and publication module generates routes to be traversed by athletes during fitness activities stores the routes within route database for subsequent access and downloads the routes to portable fitness devices . In a preferred embodiment route generation and publication module includes a route wizard which as described below with respect to guides a user through a step by step process for generating routes having desired parameters and attributes. As shown in route generation and publication module preferably accesses a local or remote map database that stores street and or trail information in association with at least latitude and longitude information and preferably elevation information. Thus given at least one terminal point e.g. a starting point route generation and publication module is able to construct one or more routes having a desired length elevation profile and other parameters and attributes. Routes generated by route generation and publication module are stored for subsequent access within route database .

Once a particular route is scheduled by an athlete as discussed further below route generation and publication module transforms the route into a sequence of turn by turn instructions and publishes the route to a portable fitness device via HTTP server and the wireless WAN. Because route generation and publication module can obtain elevation information along a desired route directly from map database route generation and publication module is also able to advantageously supply in conjunction with a route elevation information for the route. In this manner the elevation information supplied by route generation and publication module can assist or replace the elevation information provided by GPS receiver . Thus if less than four GPS satellites are acquired or if GPS receiver is not designed to process elevation information portable fitness device can still determine elevation dependent route and performance data regarding a route traversed by athlete .

Data recorder module receives route and performance information from portable training device via the wireless WAN and or local wireless interface and or data port and utilizes such data to build a virtual training journal for athlete within training journal database . As noted previously depending upon the operation of the upload manager and route and performance recorder within portable fitness device client data recorder module can build a journal entry describing the traversal of a particular route in substantially real time i.e. during traversal of the route . Data recorder module also preferably supports an interface through which a route recorded by data recorder module can be exported to route database for subsequent viewing selection and scheduling within a user s training journal.

The exemplary software configuration of server computer system finally includes visualization module . Visualization module supports one or more interfaces through which users of remote client computer systems can view and or annotate the data recorded within training journal database by data recorder module . In the depicted embodiment visualization module includes training journal interface which as described in detail below permits an athlete to view and or annotate a journal entry describing a route traversed during a fitness activity after completion of the route traversal. In a preferred embodiment visualization module further includes a real time interface through which a user at a remote client computer system may view in substantially real time data logged within training journal database for one or more athletes. Thus for example a spectator having access to Internet can view the real time standings of multiple competitors in a fitness activity such as a marathon cycling race or other competitive event. Similarly a remotely located trainer having access to Internet via a client computer can view the progress of one or more athletes engaged in one or more training activities in substantially real time.

Visualization module also preferably includes support for the export of selected journal entries between accounts of different users of the back end service provided by server computer system . For example visualization module preferably permits a user to transmit a journal entry representing a traversal of a route via email. In addition visualization module may permit a user to create a buddy account that may be accessed and even annotated by guest users. In this manner if the services provided by server computer system are provided for a subscription fee marketing of the service is enhanced by the ability of non subscribers or subscriber having reduced cost subscriptions to view journal entries created by exercise partners.

Referring now to there are illustrated a sequence of graphical user interface GUI windows presented by route wizard to a user of client computer system by HTTP server . As noted above route wizard provides a graphical and intuitive interface through which a remote user can automatically build search for and or schedule routes to be traversed during a fitness activity.

In order to access route wizard a user stationed at a remote client computer system first logs into server computer system via Internet and HTTP server . As is well known to those skilled in the art the login process typically includes the entry by the remote user of a login ID and password or other authentication information to server computer system which then authenticates the identity of the user by reference to the user database or the like.

Following the preliminary authentication process an exemplary embodiment of route wizard first presents a graphical user interface GUI window to the user. Within GUI window the user is prompted to select one of three options and which are each associated with a respective one of radio buttons . Thus the user is permitted to build a new route option search for an existing route within route database option and access one or more routes within a pre packaged training plan option . After the user has indicated a preference among options by selecting one of radio buttons utilizing cursor or a keyboard the user selects Next button to proceed to the next step.

If the user selected option indicating that the user desires to select a pre packaged training plan route wizard may subsequently present the user with one or more additional windows in which a training plan meeting the user s needs and desires is designed. Route wizard then automatically populates the training journal of the user with a schedule of fitness activities that conform to the distance time goal event e.g. marathon and or other parameters of the training plan. Thereafter the user may be permitted to build or search for routes within route database as described below with respect to in order to fulfill the requirements of the scheduled fitness activities.

Assuming that the user selects option of GUI window in order to build a new route route wizard next presents to the user the GUI window shown in . As shown in window includes a number of GUI components prompting the user to enter parameters for the new route to be built and optionally desired attributes of the route.

Specifically the user is first prompted in section to designate a starting point of the route which in this embodiment is also the ending point by entering a street address or ZIP code or by selecting a route within route database having the desired starting point. Next the user is prompted in section to enter a desired overall length of the route specified either by distance or by time. If time is utilized to specify the length of the route a desired or historical average pace is preferably entered so that a route distance can be computed. In addition to the route parameters collected in sections and GUI window may also prompt the user to enter optional route attributes. In the illustrated embodiment the optional route attributes include a maximum distance that the route may extend from the starting point a desired elevation profile of the route a desired pattern of the route a desired safety characterization of the route a desired flow of the route and whether or not the route may be a pre existing route stored within route database .

Once the user has entered all required parameter and any optional route attributes within GUI window the user selects Next button utilizing cursor . In response route generation and publication module builds one or more routes conforming as closely as possible to the route parameters and route attributes entered through GUI window . The presentation of such routes by route wizard is described below with respect to .

Referring now to there is illustrated an exemplary embodiment of a GUI window presented by route wizard to a user of client computer system is response to selection of option in GUI window of . That is in response to a user input indicating that the user desires to search for a pre existing route within route database route wizard prompts the user through GUI window to enter parameters and attributes of routes of interest to the user.

In the depicted embodiment GUI window includes two modalities by which the user may specify parameters for the route. In particular in section the user is permitted to specify a location of the route by ZIP code or city name. Alternatively as represented by button the user may specify a geographic location of the route or routes to be located by the search through a map interface. For example if the user selects button utilizing cursor route wizard may present window of which is described below.

Still referring to in section of GUI window the user is permitted to input into route wizard desired attributes of the route to be located through the search of route database . For example in the illustrated embodiment the route attributes include a range of route distance an elevation profile a route pattern a route safety profile a route flow and amenities adjacent to the route. After the user has successfully entered a route location and any desired route attributes the user may select Next button utilizing cursor to invoke a search of route database by route generation and publication module to locate one or more routes if any characterized by the desired route location and any route attributes. Assuming route generation and publication module locates one or more routes of interest within route database route wizard presents the routes to the user through an interface such as that depicted in which is described below.

Referring now to there is illustrated an exemplary GUI window in which route wizard presents a navigable geographical map populated with graphical indications of locations for which preexisting routes are stored within the route database . In the depicted embodiment GUI window includes a graphical representation of a geographical area for example a political cultural or regional boundary. Within geographical representation route wizard presents a number of indicia identifying geographic locations of one or more pre existing routes for which route database stores route data.

In response to the user flying over one of indicia utilizing cursor route wizard displays in a separate window or frame route maps of the routes in the geographic location corresponding to the selected indicia . Graphical representations may be advantageously presented overlaying a street or topographical map within window . If the user visually identifies one or more routes of interest at a particular geographical location through visual inspection of indicia and or the route maps displayed within windows the user may select that geographical location by clicking on the associated indicia . In this manner GUI window and its associated functionality provide the user with a graphical and intuitive way of viewing and selecting route locations of interest.

With reference now to there is illustrated an exemplary GUI window presented by route wizard in order to permit a user to select from among one or more pre existing routes that were located within route database or that were built by route generation and publication module in response to the input gathered by route wizard within GUI window . As shown in the depicted embodiment proposed routes that may be selected by the user are presented to the user in the form of route summaries . Although such route summaries may take any of a number of formats in one preferred embodiment each route summary includes at least a route thumbnail and a route distance . The route summary may further include an elevation profile which in the depicted embodiment is illustrated in graphical form a route rating and one or more audio or textual reviews or links thereto .

The user has a number of different navigation options from GUI window . First by clicking on any of route thumbnails the user is next presented with a graphical component through which the user may select or view detailed information regarding the selected route as described further below with respect to . Alternatively the user may utilize cursor to select Next button in order to view one or more additional route summaries of additional routes satisfying the user s route parameters and or route attributes. In addition by selecting Back button utilizing cursor the user is presented with one or more of the previously described GUI windows in order to permit the user to modify the route location or other route parameters or attributes.

With reference now to there is illustrated an GUI window presented by route wizard to provide a detailed view of a proposed route and an interface through which the user can upload route data to portable training device and schedule traversal of the route. In the illustrative embodiment window includes a detailed route map indicating the geographical path of the route. Route map includes terminal points and a route path . Route map may optionally further include one or more annotations associated with a route which may be stored in route database or accessed from map database . For example in route diagram contains an annotation indicating a geographical location of a potable water source.

By clicking on route path utilizing cursor the user invokes display by route wizard of a marker which may then be selectively slid to any desired location along route path utilizing cursor . Route wizard preferably displays marker location information in association with marker to indicate the geographic location of marker e.g. the distance between marker and terminal along route path . In addition route wizard preferably displays a corresponding second marker in association with elevation profile . In this manner by manipulating either of markers or utilizing cursor the user can visualize the location of particular elevation features or annotations .

As further shown in window further includes a rating of the route which in this case includes between one and four stars and an indication of a number of reviews. In addition window may optionally include a number of written reviews for example displayed within text box . The user may navigate to a next review of the route by selecting link .

GUI window of finally includes an interface through which the user may invoke the upload of route information pertaining to the route currently being viewed to portable training device . In the depicted embodiment the user can invoke upload of the route information to portable training device by scheduling the route utilizing calendar interface . For example in order to upload route information pertaining to the illustrated route to portable training device the user may select a desired date such as Jan. 16 2004 by clicking on that date within calendar interface utilizing cursor . In response to this input route generation and publication module enters the route to the athlete s training journal in training journal database as a prospective event and uploads route information to portable training device via Internet and the wireless WAN. Importantly in order to conserve data storage capacity within portable training device the upload by route generation and publication module is preferably deferred until a selectable time interval of the scheduled date. In this manner route information is provided to portable training device automatically and as needed.

Referring now to there are illustrated a series of GUI windows presented by training journal interface of visualization module of server computer system to permit a user to view annotate and share training journal entries created utilizing data received over the air from portable fitness device . In order to access training journal interface a user stationed at a remote client computer system first logs into server computer system via Internet and HTTP server . As is well known to those skilled in the art the login process typically includes the entry by the remote user of a login ID and password or other authentication information to server computer system which then authenticates the identity of the user by reference to the user database or the like.

Following the preliminary authentication process training journal interface of visualization module presents GUI window to the remote user via HTTP server and Internet . As illustrated GUI window includes a calendar interface through which the user can select a past current or future calendar month of interest utilizing cursor . An associated list box presents for selection dates within the selected calendar month having journal entries within training journal database for the specified login ID. Thus by navigating utilizing cursor the user can select for viewing journal entries detailing past or real time routes previously traversed or currently being traversed by an athlete or prospective routes scheduled for the athlete .

Assuming that the user selects a past journal entry within training journal database from list box training journal interface presents GUI window of again utilizing HTTP serve . As shown the journal entry presented by training journal interface within GUI window provides detailed information regarding a route previously traversed by athlete the athlete s performance environmental conditions as well as the athlete s personal comments and annotations.

In particular the training journal entry presented within GUI window includes a route map having terminal points and a route path showing the geographical path traversed by the route. As discussed above route map may advantageously be presented as an overlay of a trail or street map retrieved from map database .

The overall performance of athlete in traversing the route depicted in route map is preferably summarized in a performance summary section . As indicated performance summary section may indicate the route distance total elapsed time average pace average heart rate of athlete as well as other route and performance information. Weather conditions at the time and geographical location at which athlete traversed the route may optionally be presented in a weather condition section . For example weather condition section may specify the temperature wind speed and direction humidity and precipitation. The weather condition information presented within weather condition section may advantageously be accessed by visualization module from any of the multiple publicly accessible weather databases available via Internet .

The user may interact with route map in a number of ways. For example the user may annotate route map by dragging any of icons to a selected location along route path utilizing cursor . For example in the illustrated embodiment the user is dragging an annotation representing a potable water source onto route map . The user may alternatively drag callout box icon onto route map in order to enter a textual annotation. interface displays one or more markers along route path preferably in association with one or more items of route or performance information e.g. a distance for the geographical location identified by the marker . By adding markers in this manner the user can graphically and intuitively ascertain the geographical location of features of interest and performance and route information at selected locations along route path . Training journal interface may alternatively or additionally present route and performance information for a selected geographical location in response to the user causing cursor to fly over the corresponding location on route path .

In association with route map training journal interface preferably presents other performance information route information and or environmental information in graphical format. For example in the depicted embodiment training journal interface presents an elevation profile a heart rate profile and a pace profile in association with route map . When the user adds markers to route path training journal interface automatically presents corresponding markers and at corresponding locations along graphical profiles . As discussed above all of markers and all of markers are synchronized so that movement of any of markers moves all of markers and movement of any of markers moves all of markers . In this manner the user is able to graphically and intuitively define an interval over which performance route and or environmental information may be viewed. For example in the depicted embodiment interval information is depicted in interval section which informs the user of the interval distance time taken by the athlete to traverse the route interval average pace over the route interval and average heart rate over the route interval.

Of course the particular types of route performance and environmental information shown in are not exhaustive and other types of route performance and environmental information may be captured in association with the traversal of a route. If additional route performance or environmental information is captured in association with the route that information is preferably presented in a profile within interval section and or within overall performance section in like manner. For example GUI window may present information regarding what pair of shoes the athlete was wearing during the fitness activity together with a lifetime mileage total for that specific pair of shoes .

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the user may alternatively or additionally view route performance and environmental information regarding a previously traversed route in an overlay view in which a graphical representation of the route performance and or environmental information is depicted along route path . For example in the illustrated embodiment in response to user selection of overlay view button utilizing cursor training journal interface presents route map of in place of route map of .

Like route map route map includes terminal points and defining the starting and ending points of a route path . In contrast to route map however route path of route map comprises a plurality of bands each of which represents a respective route performance or environmental parameter quantified at the waypoints recorded along the route. The value of the respective route performance or environmental parameter is preferably charted along route path utilizing gray scale or color shade variation to represent the instantaneous quantity of the route performance or environmental parameter at each point along the route. Thus in the different hatching applied to each of bands represents a different color and a varying spacing between the hatches represents the display of the colors at varying levels of intensity along the route path depending upon the value of the parameters at each point along the path. The value associated with each shade of color or each level of gray scale is generally graphically represented in an accompanying legend . Training journal interface preferably further presents instantaneous route and performance data at any point along the route path in response to a flyover of cursor or in response to the user adding markers to the route path as described above. For example in association with the display of marker training journal interface displays information regarding the traversed distance relative elevation heart rate and pace associated with a distance 1.4 miles from the beginning of the route.

Returning to in addition to supporting user annotation of route maps and GUI window preferably permits the user to enter additional information regarding environmental and route conditions and personal thoughts. For example GUI window includes a route condition section that permits the user to record the surface and traffic conditions observed along the route as well as a text box in which the user may enter personal reflections about the training activity.

Finally GUI window preferably includes a GUI component that permits the user to review and or rate the route. For example in the exemplary embodiment GUI window contains a second text box in which the user can compose a review of the route and a ratings section in which the user can award the route between one and four stars . After the route has been reviewed and or rated the user can select Publish button which causes training journal interface to store the review and rating within route database in association with the route. In this manner the review and rating are available for access by other users through route wizard as described above.

Training journal interface preferably permits a user to view prospective routes that have been scheduled utilizing a similar interface to that illustrated in . In particular in response to a user selecting a journal entry for a future date within list box of training journal interface presents a journal entry containing a route map of the prospective training activity as shown in . Of course the journal entry will not contain any performance information e.g. time pace heart rate etc. because the athlete has not yet traversed the route.

Training journal interface also preferably permits a user to view routes currently being traversed in substantially real time through an interface similar to that depicted in . In this case training journal interface presents a journal entry containing a route map and a marker showing the athlete s current location with respect to route path . In addition training journal interface may present a summary section summarizing the athlete s performance to the current position a weather condition section an interval section and one or more graphical profiles . In this manner a remote trainer or spectator stationed at a client computer system may track an athlete s performance information route information and environmental information in substantially real time.

If a user stationed at a client computer system desires to view a substantially real time view of the activities of multiple athletes traversing a common route the user preferably logs into real time interface through HTTP server . Assuming the user has the appropriate subscription and or permissions real time interface builds from the training journals of multiple athletes a web page containing a single route map on which multiple markers each representing a respective athlete are presented. The web page may further present separate performance and route information for each athlete. In this manner a remote trainer or spectator stationed at a client computer system may track performance information route information and environmental information in substantially real time for multiple athletes traversing the same or substantially the same route.

With reference now to there is illustrated a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of authoring a training plan in accordance with the present invention. As illustrated the process begins at block and then proceeds to block which depicts a user stationed at a client computer describing a fitness training plan for an activity for example through a browser interface served over Internet by authoring tool of training plan module via web server . The training plan includes one or more workouts and preferably includes at least a relative scheduling of the workouts. The training plan may further include specific routes and specific performance metrics such as a target distance target duration target repetitions target pace target heart rate target intervals or other performance goals for one or more of the workouts. The user may further associate metadata such as keywords e.g. author name plan length fitness event etc. with the training plan so that it may be more easily located utilizing a conventional search tool. As described further below the user may further enter information indicating a preferred adaptive behavior of the training planning in response to actually observed athletic performance of an athlete using the training plan.

After the training plan has been described the user invokes storage of the training plan by authoring tool within a training plan database in data storage of . In response authoring tool generates an XML formatted document specifying the training and as indicated at block stores the training plan within training plan database . The metadata contained in the XML formatted training plan enables users to browse the contents of training plan database utilizing a conventional search tool such as the keyword search tool of a web browser. As further shown at block the author of the training plan is preferably permitted by authoring tool to subsequently access and modify training plans created by that author that reside within training plan database . Following block the process ends at block .

Referring now to there is depicted a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of installing a training plan into a user s training journal in accordance with the present invention. The process begins at block and then proceeds to block which illustrates a user stationed at a client computer system selecting a training plan from training plan database of server computer system for example through a browser GUI served over Internet by calendaring tool of training plan module via HTTP server . The selection may be aided by a conventional browser search tool menus pick lists calendars or other conventional user interface components. As described above the presentation of the interface components utilized to select the training plan may be invoked by selection of option within GUI window of . In response to user selection of the training plan calendaring tool installs the selected training plan within the user s personal training journal residing within training journal database . As noted at block installation of the training plan within the user s personal journal may optionally require payment of a fee e.g. authorization to charge a credit card number and or user agreement to abide by the terms of a copyright license in the training plan e.g. as signified by selection of an I Agree button within the GUI displayed at client computer system .

When calendaring tool of training plan module installs the training plan within the user s training journal calendaring tool preferably presents a calendar view similar to GUI window of or other GUI component s to enable user input of preferred scheduling and other preferences for the training plan. The user preferences may include for example desired starting and or ending dates for the plan preferred workout and or rest days the date of a race or other event to which the training plan pertains audible alerts the user desires to received during a workout etc. In response to the user scheduling input s and any other preferences calendaring tool automatically populates the calendar in the user s training journal with the workouts within the selected training plan based upon the user s inputs and or the relative scheduling of the workouts in the training plan. After the training plan has been installed within the user s training journal the user is preferably permitted to further modify or customize the training plan as depicted at block . In addition training plan module may automatically customize a training plan in an athlete s personal training journal in response to the athlete s activities recorded in the personal training journal if the adaptive behavior is specified by the training plan. For example training plan module may automatically remove prospective workouts from the training plan in response to the athlete exceeding a weekly mileage target in order to prevent pre event injury or may automatically add additional workouts e.g. to the end of the training plan if the personal training journal of athlete indicates a failure to meet mileage goals. Alternatively or additionally training plan module may automatically decrease a target pace for one or more prospective workouts if the athlete has had a lower than target pace over one or more previous workouts. Those skilled in the art that any number of other modifications to distance pace and scheduling may similarly be automatically implemented in response to actual measured athletic performance. Following block the process terminates at block .

With reference now to there is illustrated a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of automatically downloading one or more workouts within a training plan to a portable fitness device in accordance with the present invention. As shown the process begins at block and then proceeds to block which depicts a download manager of training plan module monitoring a user s personal training journal to determine if any workout of a training plan installed within the user s training journal falls within a next download time interval e.g. within the upcoming week . If not download manager continues to monitor the user s training journal.

However if download manager determines at block that at least one workout of a training plan falls within the next download time interval download manager attempts to establish communication with the user s portable fitness device via Internet and the wireless WAN as depicted at block . If download manager determines at block that communication cannot be established for example because portable fitness device is turned off or is out of range of the wireless WAN download manager waits a predetermined interval as shown at block . The process then returns to block which has been described.

Returning to block if download manager determines that the portable fitness device is available to receive a download the process proceeds to block . Block depicts download manager automatically downloading the workouts within the next download time interval to the portable fitness device using an XML schema. As noted in block the workout s preferably include at least one performance metric that may form the basis of a substantially real time alert during the associated workout. Following block the process ends at block . Thus workouts maybe downloaded to portable fitness device on an as needed basis rather than all at once which reduces utilization of storage in portable fitness device . Of course in other embodiments the download interval can be longer than the training plan and all workouts within the training plan can be downloaded at once.

Referring now to there is depicted a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method by which a portable fitness device presents comparative performance information in substantially real time in accordance with the present invention. The process begins at block in response to an athlete initiating a monitored activity for example by selecting a route or planned workout from the internal memory device of portable training device and entering a Start command utilizing one of input buttons of portable fitness device . The process then trifurcates and proceeds in parallel to each of block and .

Block depicts data formatter receiving and formatting input data regarding the athlete s activity from readers as described above. After optional compression by data compressor the input data received and formatted by data formatter are recorded by route and performance recorder within internal memory device or audio storage or a removal memory loaded in removable memory slot as depicted at block . The formatting and recording steps shown at blocks and are performed for the duration of the fitness activity.

Referring now to blocks the operations of training input manager described above may be extended to present notifications and alerts to the athlete in substantially real time during the activity. As shown at block training input manager determines from the activity related data recorded by route and performance recorder whether or an update interval e.g. an interval time and or interval distance has elapsed. The time and or distance update interval s are preferably determined by the settings established by settings manager . If a time or distance update interval has not elapsed the process iterates at block until a time or distance update interval has elapsed. The process then proceeds to block which illustrates training input manager determining whether notifications are currently enabled by reference to the settings established by settings manager . These notifications provide feedback to athlete of his performance e.g. distance traveled pace split time heart rate etc. in substantially real time without reference to performance goals.

If notifications are not currently enabled the process passes to block which is described below. If however notifications are currently enabled training input manager computes one or more notifications to be presented to athlete e.g. distance traveled pace split time heart rate etc. . Next training input manager determines at block whether or not the current activity is a planned workout within a training plan downloaded to portable training device . This determination can be made based upon user selection of a planned workout at block or by dynamic matching of the route data recorded by route and performance recorder and route information associated with a workout route downloaded to portable fitness device . If the current activity is not a planned workout the process passes to block which is described below. If the current activity is a planned workout the process proceeds to block .

Block depicts training input manager comparing at least one metric of the athlete s current performance to a corresponding performance goal provided to portable fitness device as part of the planned workout. Training input manager next determines at block whether or not any alerts should be presented to athlete based upon the performance comparison performed at block . These alerts may include for example the following 

The alerts determined at block if any are then recorded in association with the reader data in internal memory device at block so that the guidance provided to athlete may be subsequently reviewed. Following a negative determination at block or following block training input manager presents a performance update to athlete in audible format that includes at least one notification or alert. That is training input manager locates an audio track within audio storage or internal memory device corresponding to a notification e.g. Pace is 8 30 or an alert e.g. Pace under target by 10 seconds and presents the audio track to audio presentation module for subsequent audible presentation to athlete . Of course such updates may additionally be presented visually to athlete by visual presentation module . Thereafter the process returns to block which has been described.

Referring now to blocks the operation of upload manager is illustrated. As described above upload manager and route and performance recorder determine at block whether or not to upload activity related data based upon one or more criteria for example whether WAN transceiver can acquire a connection to the wireless WAN the available storage within internal memory device an indication of whether or not a remote user is tracking the training of athlete in real time and or other criteria. If based upon these and or other criteria upload manager decides not to upload activity related data the process returns to block . If however upload manager decides to upload the formatted and compressed activity related data upload manager outputs the activity related data including any alerts via WAN transceiver and antenna to client computer system and or server computer system utilizing radio frequency signals . Thereafter the process returns to block .

With reference now to there is illustrated a Cartesian graph illustrating the over reporting of distance traveled by raw or unprocessed GPS waypoints when GPS receiver is traveling at low velocity e.g. less than 30 miles per hour and more particularly less than 15 miles per hour . As GPS receiver is transported by athlete GPS receiver receives GPS signals from GPS satellites where each GPS signal contains a timestamp. From these GPS signals GPS reader computes time stamped waypoints A through O which are plotted on an arbitrary Cartesian graph. As indicated by the varying spacing between the time stamped waypoints and the irregular path of route time stamped waypoints are subject to at least two types of error namely timing error and positional error.

As can be seen positional readings are based on a timestamp that may or may nor reflect the actual elapsed time between GPS readings. This timing error may be induced by a low performance processor driving GPS receiver that does not have sufficient cycles to dedicate to GPS processing. Alternatively or additionally timing error may be inserted by the use of assisted GPS A GPS which requires round trip communication over the wireless WAN to validate a GPS reading or by local filtering performed by GPS receiver and or GPS reader .

Additional positional error may also be caused by the inherent positional error of commercial as opposed to military GPS signals which is typically between 3 5 meters. Consequently when the sampling rate of the GPS signal causes more than one sample to be taken during time interval required to traverse the positional error distance a zigzag route will be reported even if a relatively straight path is followed. As indicated by flattened GPS reading the cumulative distance between adjacent pairs of time stamped waypoints A through O is thus greater than the true distance traversed by a delta distance . This distance error will also negatively impact any average or instantaneous velocity computations that depend on a correct reporting of distance traversed.

Referring now to there is depicted a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of GPS filtering in accordance with the present invention. The illustrated method can be performed in hardware e.g. by GPS receiver and or in software e.g. by GPS reader .

The process begins at block and then proceeds to blocks which illustrates receiving and queuing in a pipeline a new GPS reading including at least a time stamp and a latitude longitude duple and optionally a positional accuracy uncertainty. After some time interval a subsequent GPS reading is received and queued as shown at block . Although the present invention is not limited to such embodiments it will hereafter be assumed that the pipeline holds a maximum of 3 GPS readings identified in order of receipt as A B and C. Next at block a determination is made whether or not the length of the route segment between the two GPS readings most recently entered into the queue i.e. B and C is less than a first threshold which in one embodiment is based upon e.g. equal to the possibly variable positional accuracy associated with the readings. If so the process passes to block which illustrates discarding the most recent GPS reading C from the pipeline. Thereafter the process returns to block which has been described.

Returning to block in response to a determination that the distance traversed between the two most recent GPS readings B and C is not less than the threshold the process bifurcates and proceeds to each of blocks and . Block illustrates calculating the velocity of GPS receiver over the route segments AB BC and AC based upon the length of the route segments and the time intervals between the GPS readings. Next the process passes to block which depicts determining whether or not a GPS reading in the pipeline is errant and should therefore be discarded.

In one embodiment the middle GPS reading B is determined to be errant if velocity velocity Threshold2 or velocity velocity C Threshold2 where velocity XY refers to a velocity over route segment between points X and Y and Threshold2 is a second threshold. In one embodiment a second threshold ranging between 2 and 5 and preferably about 3 is employed.

In response to a determination at block that a GPS reading in the pipeline is errant the errant GPS reading is discarded from the pipeline as shown at block . Thereafter the process returns to block . If on the other hand a determination is made at block that a GPS reading in the pipeline is not errant the process proceeds to block . Block depicts the application of a smoothing algorithm to the GPS readings in the pipeline. In one embodiment a curve fitting formula such as least squares curve fitting is employed. A less computationally intensive alternative that may be employed is an equally weighted averaging algorithm such as lat lon lat lat lat 3 lon lon lon 3 where latX lonX is the latitude longitude duple for GPS reading X and latB lonB is a replacement latitude longitude duple for GPS reading B.

If an uncertainty or error u is available for each of GPS readings A B and C e.g. the uncertainties are supplied by GPS receiver or derived based upon a heuristic that may account for the number of GPS satellites available a weighted averaging algorithm with possibly different weights for each GPS reading can alternatively be applied to smooth GPS reading B as follows 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 3 1 lat lon 1 lat2 lat2 lat1 lon2 lon3 lon 

Yet another alternative is a partially weighted smoothing algorithm that applies a percentage of emphasis given to the uncertainties U 

Following block the oldest GPS reading C is output from the pipeline at block and recorded as route data. A determination is then made at block whether or not more raw GPS readings will be received for the current route e.g. whether a Stop input has been received in response to manipulation of an input button . If not the process returns to block which has been described. If however no more raw GPS readings will be received for the current route the process passes to block which illustrates outputting and recording as route data any remaining GPS readings in the pipeline. Thereafter the process ends at block .

The smoothed GPS data output from the pipeline is preferably what is recorded by route and performance recorder within internal memory device . The process depicted in can alternatively be implemented by software on a remote data processing system e.g. server computer system or client computer system to correct the GPS data by post processing or in real time. If the GPS data is corrected in real time by the remote data processing system e.g. server computer system the corrected GPS data can be transmitted back to the source portable fitness device or other GPS enabled device for presentation or analysis.

With reference now to there is depicted a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of automatically presenting comparative split information to an athlete in substantially real time in accordance with the present invention. The process can be implemented for example as an extension training input manager of .

The process begins at block in response to an athlete initiating a monitored activity for example by entering a Start command utilizing one of input buttons of portable fitness device . The process then proceeds to block which illustrates a determination of whether or not athlete is traversing a route previously traversed by athlete . In a preferred embodiment the determination depicted at block can be made in response to user input e.g. the user selecting a route or planned workout from the internal memory device of portable training device or can be made dynamically by route matching.

In response to a determination at block that the route being traversed is known to be a route that was previously traversed e.g. because of user input the process proceeds to block which illustrates training input manager requesting and receiving a download from server computer system of split information for the current route stored within the athlete s personal training journal within training journal database . The split information which preferably provides a split for each equal sized route segment e.g. quarter mile half kilometer etc. may indicate a most recent average and or personal record split time for the athlete . Based upon the split information training input manager generates and presents a performance update to athlete in audible format as described above with respect to block of block . That is training input manager locates an audio track within audio storage or internal memory device corresponding to the alert e.g. Mile 1 under PR by 6 seconds and presents the audio track to audio presentation module for subsequent audible presentation to athlete . Of course such alerts may additionally be presented to athlete by visual presentation module .

The process next passes to block which depicts training input manager determining whether or not the route has been completed for example by determining whether athlete has indicated Stop utilizing one of input buttons and or by determining whether a known terminal waypoint of the route has been reached. If training input manager determines at block that athlete has completed the route training input manager optionally uploads the split information for each segment of the route to the athlete s personal training Journal within training journal database on server computer system . Data recorder module of server computer system could recompute the split information to reduce data transmission over the wireless WAN. Thereafter the process ends at block .

Referring again to block in response to training input manager determining that athlete is traversing an unknown route the process proceeds to block . Block illustrates training input manager uploading the GPS reading at a first or next split distance e.g. 0 miles mile etc. to a route matching module running on server computer system . In response to receipt of the GPS reading route matching module compares the location specified by the GPS reading with previously traversed routes recorded within the athlete s personal training journal within training journal database on server computer system block . If no location match with a previously traversed route is found within a given range e.g. 10 meters the process passes to block which illustrates route matching module determining whether or not a possible match still may exist e.g. whether a previously traversed route is found within 2000 meters of the GPS reading received from portable fitness device .

If route matching module determines at block that a match may still be possible the process returns to block with route matching module optionally signaling training input manager that no match has been found but that a match is still possible. If on the other hand route matching module determines that no match is possible e.g. no previously traversed route was found within 2000 meters of the GPS reading received from portable fitness device the process ends at block with route matching module optionally signaling training input manager that no match has been found or is still possible.

Returning to block in response to route matching module determining that a matching previously traversed route resides in the athlete s personal training journal route matching module downloads split information for the route to training input manager as illustrated at block . Training input manager then utilizes the downloaded split information to generate and presents a performance update to athlete in audible and or visual format in substantially real time as described above with respect to block of block . Training input manager thereafter monitors the GPS data recorder by route and performance recorder as shown at block to determine whether athlete remains on the matched route downloaded from server computer system . If training input manager determines that athlete is remaining on the matched route downloaded from server computer system training input manager continues to present comparative split information as depicted at block .

If however training input manager determines that athlete has left the matched route training input manager further determines at block whether athlete has finished the route for example by determining whether athlete has indicated Stop utilizing one of input buttons and or by determining whether a known terminal waypoint of the matched route has been reached. If training input manager determines at block that athlete has not finished the matched route training input manager attempts to match a new route as indicated by the process returning to block . If however training input manager determines at block that athlete has finished the matched route the process passes to blocks and which have been described.

Referring now to there is depicted a block diagram of an exemplary playlist management architecture in accordance with the present invention. For clarity illustrates only those portions of server computer system and portable fitness device helpful in gaining an understanding of the invention. As depicted the playlist architecture includes a server playlist management component a track library containing songs and or other audio tracks and a track preferences database residing at or accessible to server computer system . The playlist architecture optionally includes an auxiliary track library containing additional songs and or other tracks that may be accessed to augment the contents of track library . Auxiliary track library may reside on a client computer system or at a commercial music distribution service licensed to distribute tracks. In order to comply with copyright laws access to each track in track library may be restricted by server playlist management component to only those users having a license to the track e.g. as evidenced the user uploading the track directly from auxiliary track library through selection of a hyperlink provided in a web page served by server playlist management component and HTTP server .

Server playlist management component is coupled for communication by a communication network e.g. Internet and the wireless WAN to a client playlist management component residing on portable fitness device . Client playlist management component receives a set of substantially real time inputs which may be provided for example by external sources e.g. server computer system or other web servers coupled to communication network and or by readers . Inputs may include for example weather conditions athletic performance e.g. pace heart rate distance etc. surface type e.g. paved or unpaved adjacent scenery and or grade e.g. uphill flat or downhill . Client playlist management component is further coupled to audio storage .

As described in greater detail below the playlist architecture enables the creation of custom and or dynamic playlists that will enhance a user s activity e.g. workout . For example tracks may be played during the activity to motivate relax or reward an athlete or establish a desired pace for selected segments of a route.

With reference now to there is depicted an exemplary method of pre processing an audio track to determine a corresponding activity pace in accordance with the present invention. As depicted the process begins at block in response to designation of an audio track to be processed for example by a user invoking the uploading of a track to track library . The process then proceeds to block which depicts server playlist management component applying an audio filter to the track to determine a tempo for the track for example in beats per minute. Server playlist management component then determines at block a corresponding pace for at least one athletic activity e.g. running hiking cycling etc. based upon the track tempo and an estimated distance traversed per repeated motion e.g. stride pedal revolution etc. matching the tempo. Server playlist management component next stores the audio track or at least an identifier thereof in track library in association with one or more associated paces. Thereafter the process ends at block .

Referring now to there is depicted a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of constructing a user playlist in accordance with the present invention. The process begins at block for example in response to a user logged into server computer system and viewing a route in his training journal via a GUI presented by training journal interface invoking a playlist wizard within server playlist management component . The process then proceeds to block which depicts the playlist wizard of server playlist management component calling training journal interface to present a GUI containing a selected view e.g. an elevation view of the route. The visual presentation of the route is preferably demarked into a plurality of route segments based upon for example substantial changes in route grade predetermined distances landmarks adjacent the route user input etc. The user may be permitted to change the location on the route of the demarcation between segments for example by manipulating the location of a line representing a segment interface utilizing a graphical pointer.

Next at block playlist wizard obtains a pace for each of the route segments comprising the route. For example playlist wizard may utilize a user entered pace or a user s historical average pace for the specific route or overall as the base pace for the route and from the base pace calculate a pace for each route segment based upon the average grade of each route segment. Alternatively playlist wizard may use one or more paces associated with the route by a workout in a training plan. The pace for each route segment may desirably be graphically indicated on the elevation view of the route with a respective attribute e.g. color or pattern and or numeric label e.g. presented in a flyover popup label presented when a graphical pointer is positioned over a route segment .

As depicted at blocks playlist wizard permits the user to build a playlist for the route by associating one or more tracks from track library and or auxiliary track library for example by dragging one or more tracks presented within a picklist to specific locations on the graphical presentation of the route. In addition playlist wizard may automatically e.g. in response to user selection of an Autofill button with a graphical pointer associate one or more tracks to portions of route segments not currently having associated tracks by matching within a range the pace of each track from track library as determined at block with the pace of a route segment as obtained at block . This automatic playlist construction may further be informed by user preferences which may be entered as described below with reference to .

The process proceeds from block to block which illustrates storing the playlist within the user s personal journal in training journal database such that the beginning of each track is associated with a particular location on the route. As indicated at block the playlist is optionally published to the community along with the route for example in response to a user selecting Publish button of .

As depicted at blocks and when the route is subsequently downloaded to a portable fitness device for example in response to a input invoking the download or in response to download manager automatically pushing the route to the portable fitness device the playlist is downloaded in association with the route. In this manner the tracks within the playlist may be played at appropriate points along the route as described below with reference to .

With reference now to there is illustrated a high level logical flowchart of a location based method of presenting audio tracks as a route is traversed in accordance with the present invention. The illustrated process may be performed for example by audio presentation module of portable fitness device client .

As illustrated the process begins at block and then proceeds to block which depicts audio presentation module receiving a new GPS reading from GPS reader or route and performance recorder . At blocks and audio presentation module then determines by reference to route information within internal memory device whether the current GPS reading is within a predetermined range of a point on the route and if so whether a track within a playlist is associated with the point on the route. If either of the determinations depicted at blocks and is negative the process returns to block which has been described. If on the other hand both of the determinations at blocks and are affirmative audio presentation module further determines at block whether or not it is already playing the track associated with the matching point on the route. If so the process returns to block which has been described. If on the other hand the track is not already being played audio presentation module plays the track as illustrated at block .

As depicted at block if the route is complete as indicated for example by a user input received by the portable fitness device via input buttons the process ends at block . If the route is not complete the process returns to block which has been described.

Referring now to there is depicted a block diagram of an exemplary graphical user interface GUI through which user audio preferences may be entered in accordance with the present invention. GUI may be presented within a browser interface on client computer by user preferences package of server playlist management component for example in response to a user establishing an account with server computer system or in response to a user logging into server computer system and entering an indication of a desire to enter playlist preferences.

As shown GUI includes a track library window in which a list of tracks is presented. Entries in the track list may include information such as a track name track length genre and corresponding pace e.g. determined as depicted in . Of course entries in the track list may include additional information such as an artist and or album name track price etc. In response to a user input associated with a track in the track list for example a user right clicking on an entry with graphical pointer and then making a selection of a Playlist Preferences entry from a drop down list user preferences package causes a playlist preferences window to be presented within GUI .

Playlist preferences window presents a number of GUI components that gather information regarding when the user would want to hear a particular track. In the depicted embodiment playlist preferences window includes radio buttons that the user can select with graphical pointer to indicate what grade e.g. uphill flat or downhill activity phase e.g. warm up or cool down tempo influence e.g. slow down maintain or accelerate or weather e.g. hot cold wet or windy the user wants to associate with the selected track. In addition playlist preference window includes a text box and associated Browse button that a user may employ to enter a name of a scenic location or type of scenery with which the user desires to associated the selected track.

In addition to track specific preferences user preferences package preferably further collects the user s general track preferences such as preferred genres of music preferred activity phases for which presentation of tracks is enabled or disabled etc. via one or more unillustrated graphical user interfaces. Using one or more of the track specific and or general preferences the playlist architecture of the present invention can dynamically create and present a playlist to a user in association with an activity.

With reference now to there is illustrated a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of dynamic playlist management in accordance with the present invention. The depicted process can be performed remotely by client playlist management component of portable fitness device by server playlist management component on server computer system utilizing communication with portable fitness device over communication network or a combination of the two. The depicted method of dynamic playlist management can be performed in response to a user input or automatically as a default mode of operation in the absence of user designation of a particular playlist or user designation of a route with an associated user constructed playlist.

As illustrated the process begins at block and then proceeds to block which illustrates playlist management component or receiving a set of substantially real time inputs from external sources e.g. server computer system or other web servers coupled to communication network and or by readers within portable fitness device . As described above the set of inputs can include for example weather conditions athletic performance e.g. pace heart rate distance etc. surface type e.g. paved or unpaved adjacent scenery and or route grade e.g. uphill flat or downhill . In response to receipt of inputs playlist management component or determines at blocks and whether inputs indicate a particular activity phase e.g. warm up or cool down a particular grade e.g. uphill or downhill proximity to a particular scenic input or an environmental e.g. weather condition. If not the process proceeds through page connector A to block which is described below. If on the other hand inputs indicate a particular activity phase a particular grade or a particular environmental or scenic input the process proceeds to blocks .

Blocks depict playlist management component or determining whether the detected input has an associated track based upon the athlete s playlist preferences e.g. playlist preferences entered utilizing GUI of and if so whether the general preferences have enabled or disabled playing the track for the particular input . If an associated track is identified and its playing is enabled the process passes to block which illustrates a determination of whether or not the associated track is already playing. If so the process returns to block which has been described. If not the process proceeds to block which illustrates a determination regarding whether or not the track has recently been played for example in a user selectable or predetermined non repeating interval e.g. minutes . If so the process returns to block representing a determination of whether or not an alternative track is associated with the triggering input. If a determination is made at block that the associated track determined at block has not recently been played the process passes to block .

Block illustrates playlist management component or accessing or causing the associated track to accessed for example from audio storage track library or auxiliary track library . Presentation of the associated track by audio presentation module is then invoked as depicted at block . Thereafter the process returns to block which has been described.

Returning to block a determination is made by reference to the pace and or location or other inputs received at block whether the activity has been completed. If so the process depicted in ends at block . If however a determination is made at block that the activity has not been completed the process proceeds to block which depicts playlist management component or selecting a track from audio storage or track library corresponding to the current pace of athlete . Playlist management component or then invokes presentation of the selected track as shown at block . Thereafter the process returns to block which has been described.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that although the methods of have been described with particular reference to use by an athlete it will be appreciated that the playlist management methodologies disclosed herein may be applied more generally to provide audio presentation services based upon a user s environment and or location. Thus for example the services may be advantageously utilized by tourists persons commuting in cars buses trains etc.

Referring now to there is depicted a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of publishing a challenge route to a user community in accordance with the present invention. As shown the process begins at block for example with a user such as an athlete logging into server computer system from a client computer and invoking the display by training journal interface of a particular route in his personal training journal within training journal database that has been traversed by the athlete . One exemplary GUI for viewing a traversed route is described above in detail with reference to .

The process then proceeds from block to block which depicts the user designating the particular route as a challenge route for example through interaction with a GUI displayed as a result of the selection of Publish button of utilizing graphical pointer . In response to designation of the particular route as a challenge route route generation and publication module computes a point value for the challenge route for example based upon the total distance and cumulative elevation gain of the uphill portions of the route block . Route generation and publication module then publishes the route in route database for selection and download to the portable fitness devices of other members of the service community. Thereafter the process ends at block .

With reference now to there is illustrated a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of staging the device assisted traversal of a challenge route in accordance with the present invention. As depicted the process begins at block and then proceeds to block which illustrates training input manager of portable fitness device determining if a user such as athlete has entered an input e.g. using input buttons signifying the selection of a challenge route previously downloaded to internal memory device of portable fitness device . The meta data associated with the route in internal memory device preferably indicates whether a downloaded route is a challenge route. If not other processing is performed as depicted at block .

In response to a determination by training input manager that a challenge route has been selected for traversal training input manager further determines at block whether directions to the starting point should be presented. For example training input manager may determine if athlete has entered an addition input requesting such directions or has simply not canceled the presentation of such directions. If a determination is made at block that no directions are needed or desired the process proceeds to block which is described below. If however a determination is made at block that directions to the starting point of the route are needed or desired training input manager calls audio presentation module and or visual presentation manager at block to present turn by turn audible direction and or a map to guide athlete to the starting point of the challenge route. This functionality is particularly helpful if the challenge route is off road.

The process proceeds from block to block which illustrates training input manager determining by reference to the GPS readings provided by GPS reader whether or not athlete has transported portable fitness device to the starting point of the challenge route e.g. within a positional error range 5 meters of the starting location . If not the process returns to block which has been described. If however training input manager determines at block that athlete has transported portable fitness device to the starting point of the challenge route the process passes to block .

Block depicts training input manager calling audio presentation module to present an audible start message to the user from audio storage . For example the start message may state Forward motion will start timing the challenge route. Following presentation of the start message training input manager monitors GPS readings provided by GPS reader at block for forward motion of portable fitness device along the challenge route. When forward motion is detected the process proceeds to block which depicts training input manager calling audio presentation module and or visual presentation manager to present real time turn by turn audible direction and or a map to guide athlete along challenge route in response to GPS readings provided by GPS reader . Training input manager may also present comparative performance or split information as the challenge route is traversed for example indicating comparative overall performance or splits with respect to a previous best time for traversing the challenge route e.g. You are 10 seconds off of best time . Presentation of directional assistance continues until training input manager determines an end point of the challenge route. Thereafter the process ends at block .

Referring now to there is depicted a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method of presenting the results of a traversal of a challenge route in accordance with the present invention. The process begins at block and the proceeds to block which illustrates data recorder module running on server computer system receiving data recorded for a route traversed by a portable fitness device from upload manager running on the portable fitness device and recording the data in an athlete s personal training journal within training journal database . Upload manager preferably transmits the data in conjunction with a parameter indicating whether or not the route for the data were collected is a challenge route permitting data recorder module to determine whether the data is for a challenge route as shown at block . If the data is not for a challenge route the process ends at block . If however data recorder module determines at block that the data is for a challenge route the process proceeds to blocks .

Block depicts data recorder module computing feed back regarding the traversal of the challenge route. For example based upon the route data and other results for the same route contained in training journal database data recorder module may compute an absolute ranking of the total time for the route traversal e.g. an overall and age bracketed ranking and a normalized ranking for the route traversal. The normalized ranking may compensate for factors such as wind speed and direction athlete age how long the athlete has been training and or temperature to correctly handicap diverse environment conditions and athletic abilities. As shown at block data recorder module then downloads to portable fitness device feedback information regarding the traversal of the challenge route. For example data recorder module may transmit the absolute and normalized rankings as well as points earned by the athlete for the traversal of the challenge route and a cumulative point total for all challenge routes traversed by the athlete . The feedback data transmitted by data recorder module to portable fitness device are received by training input manager and then presented by visual presentation module and or audio presentation module . The process depicted in then terminates at block .

With reference now to there is illustrated a high level block diagram of a system architecture that provides nutritional guidance to a user in accordance with the present invention. For clarity illustrates only those portions of server computer system and portable fitness device helpful in gaining an understanding of the invention.

As depicted the nutritional guidance architecture includes a server computer system and a portable fitness device . Server computer system includes a server nutritional assistant and a meal plan database containing personal meal plans for subscribers. The personal meal plans may specify for example a caloric intake goal and or other nutritional information e.g. grams of fats carbohydrates and sugars food categories food point value etc. on a per meal or daily basis. Residing at or accessible to server computer system is a restaurant database which contains information regarding geographic locations of restaurants hours of operation and menu items available at the restaurants. With respect to menu items restaurant database preferably indicates an estimated calorie amount and optionally additional nutritional information e.g. grams of fats sugars and total carbohydrates . The nutritional guidance architecture optionally further includes an auxiliary restaurant database which may reside on a web server or represent a web portal such as Yahoo containing duplicate or additional information that maybe accessed to locate restaurants obtain information e.g. calories or nutritional information regarding menu items and or populate restaurant database .

Server nutritional assistant is coupled for communication by a communication network e.g. Internet and the wireless WAN to a client nutritional assistant residing on portable fitness device . Client nutritional assistant receives inputs from server nutritional assistant and presents the inputs via calls to visual presentation module and or audio presentation module .

As described in greater detail below the nutritional guidance architecture enables a user e.g. athlete of portable fitness device to determine menu items conforming to a meal plan that are in proximity to the user s geographic location. The menu items may be selected for presentation to the user based upon the caloric expenditure associated with activities recorded in the user s personal training journal within training journal database .

Referring now to there is depicted a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method by which a client device such as portable fitness device queries a service for nutritional guidance in accordance with the present invention. The process begins at block and thereafter proceeds to block which depicts client nutritional assistant monitoring the user inputs e.g. manipulations of inputs buttons of portable fitness device for an input signifying a dining decision query. In response to detection of a user input signifying a dining decision query the process next passes to block which illustrates client nutritional assistant sending a dining decision query to server such as nutritional assistant running on server computer system via communication network . The dining decision query contains the geographic location of portable fitness device e.g. as indicated by a recent GPS reading obtained from GPS reader may optionally further contain or be interpreted as containing a parameter indicating one or more proximities e.g. 1 mile 3 miles 5 miles to the current geographic location.

As shown at block client nutritional assistant then iterates until a response to the dining decision query is received from server nutritional assistant via communication network for example in the form of an XML document. In response to receipt of the response client nutritional assistant presents the response to the user at block by making appropriate calls to visual presentation module and or audio presentation module . In one embodiment the XML response document includes a picklist containing one or more entries that each identifies a restaurant name a distance e.g. in miles or kilometers to the restaurant from the current geographic location of portable fitness device and a number of menu choices available at that restaurant that comply with the user s meal plan. User selection of an entry of the picklist may invoke further display of a map to the restaurant from the current geographic location of portable fitness device and or images of the available menu items.

Client nutritional assistant then determines at block if a user input has been received e.g. via input buttons indicating that the user desires to receive additional results from more distant restaurants. If not the process ends at block . If so client nutritional assistant increases the proximity parameter at block and issues another dining decision query with the increased proximity parameter as shown at block . Thereafter the process continues as has been described.

With reference now to there is illustrated a high level logical flowchart of an exemplary method by which a server device responds to a query for nutritional guidance in accordance with the present invention. The depicted process begins at block and thereafter proceeds to block which illustrates server nutritional assistant waiting until a dining decision query is received from a client device such as portable fitness device or client computer system . In response to receipt of the dining decision query server nutritional assistant accesses restaurant database and or auxiliary restaurant database at block to identify one or more restaurants within at least one zone of proximity to the client device e.g. portable fitness device .

As shown at block for at least one restaurant and preferably for each restaurant identified at block that is within the proximity zone server nutritional assistant then determines by reference to restaurant database and or auxiliary restaurant database which menu items at the restaurant if any can be eaten by the user given the time of day i.e. an indication of whether the meal is a breakfast lunch dinner or snack and the nutritional information e.g. caloric intake goal grams of fats sugars and carbohydrates food point values etc. specified in the user s meal plan stored within meal plan database . Server nutritional assistant may further take into consideration caloric expenditure estimated from recent activity e.g. same or previous day recorded for the user within training journal database . In this manner caloric expenditure can be compensated for or rewarded by the inclusion of higher calorie menu item selections. Server nutritional assistant then downloads its response to the dining decision query to the client device e.g. portable fitness client via communication network as shown at block . Thereafter the process terminates at block .

While the invention has been particularly shown as described with reference to a preferred embodiment it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. For example while the present invention has been described with respect to an exemplary software configuration in which software performing certain functions of the present invention resides on a server computer system of a service provider e.g. of a subscription service those skilled in the art will appreciate that in alternative embodiments such software may alternatively reside on a client computer system such as client computer system and or on portable fitness device .

Furthermore while the present invention has been described with reference to tracking and visualizing the performance and or route of an athlete those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may also be applied to tracking and visualizing the location and movement of other persons such as children or criminals under electronic supervision or objects.

Moreover although aspects of the present invention have been described with respect to a data processing system executing program code that directs the functions of the present invention it should be understood that present invention may alternatively be implemented as a program product for use with a data processing system. Program code defining the functions of the present invention can be delivered to a data processing system via a variety of signal bearing media which include without limitation non rewritable storage media e.g. CD ROM rewritable storage media e.g. a floppy diskette or hard disk drive and communication media such as digital and analog networks. It should be understood therefore that such signal bearing media when carrying or encoding computer readable instructions that direct the functions of the present invention represent alternative embodiments of the present invention.

