---

title: Carrier and flow-through ship
abstract: A method and apparatus for cargo transfer at sea, more particularly, a flow-through vessel and related method for the at-sea and underway launching and loading of air-cushion vehicles. The vessel includes a hull having a forward end and an aft end, a continuous deck extending from the forward end to the aft end of the hull, a forward ramp attached to the continuous deck at the forward end of the hull, and an aft ramp attached to the continuous deck at the aft end of the hull. At least a portion of the continuous deck is uncovered and accessible from above the deck.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07621230&OS=07621230&RS=07621230
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 07621230
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070420
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 797 085 filed Apr. 21 2006 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 527 666 filed 18 Sep. 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 556 471 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Inter Ship Personnel Transfer Device and Method of Moving Between Compacted State and Non Compacted State by joint inventors Sean M. Gallagher Stuart G. Ullman Ryan T. Hayleck Christopher J. Doyle John F. O Dea Robert W. Anderson and Kellie L. Redcay.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 788 422 filed 20 Apr. 2007 hereby incorporated by reference entitled Adjustable Height Bridging Ramp System by joint inventors Robert W. Anderson Sean M. Gallagher Kellie L. Redcay Ryan T. Hayleck John F. O Dea and Stuart G. Ullman.

This application is related to U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 789 116 filed 20 Apr. 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 516 712 by hereby incorporated by reference entitled Vertical Damper for Mooring Vessels joint John O Dea Robert W. Anderson Sean Gallagher Ryan Hayleck Kellie Redcay and Stuart Ullman.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for cargo transfer at sea more particularly a flow through vessel and related method for the at sea and underway launching and loading of air cushion vehicles.

Current Navy Sea Base plans call for a capability to launch and support the operations of a Marine Expeditionary Brigade MEB from the ships of the Sea Base. The Landing Craft Air Cushion LCAC an air cushion vehicle is the prime surface assault connector of the Sea Base. Unfortunately current assets are not able to bring the necessary number of required LCACs into theater. Another problem involves how to load these LCACs to support the MEB in an efficient and timely manner. Current methods of loading LCACs at sea are cumbersome and time consuming. The current methods of loading LCACs from larger cargo ships at sea typically involve loading LCACs while they are in the water or driving them onto lightweight temporary platforms that are relatively small in size and subject to substantial motion as sea states rise.

Alternative approaches have been contemplated which would use a ship as both an LCAC Carrier as well as a transfer enabler for the Sea Base. Some of these approaches require the carrier ship to ballast down as in a heavy lift ship so that the LCACs can fly on and off the mother ship. Other approaches use large elevators to transfer the LCAC between the carrier ship and the water. Such approaches are complex and inefficient.

It is also desirable for two or more ships to have the capability to moor together while at sea. However the forces creating the relative vertical motions between two or more ships are too powerful to be overcome by traditional mooring and fendering systems. To fight these forces would mean fighting the entire restorative buoyancy force. Aside from welding the ships together this is virtually unachievable. Analysis shows that in Sea State 4 the upper requirement for Sea Base operations the relative vertical movement between two ships moored together will be too great to allow the safe transfer of personnel and cargo.

In one implementation a water vessel such as a ship has a forward and an aft ramp which allows air cushion vehicles such as Landing Craft Air Cushion vehicles LCACs to drive on and off the ship. The vessel can carry the LCACs into the theater where they are needed load them for a mission launch them out via the forward ramp and bow door then retrieve them through the stem ramp. The vessel does not require a well deck ballast down capability or elevators to accommodate the LCACs. The vessel is designed to utilize the capability of an LCAC to climb and descend slight slopes. When LCAC operations are not underway the bow and stem doors close to prevent seawater from flowing up the ramps and onto the LCAC Deck.

In another implementation a shock absorber for mooring ships together at sea is disclosed. Specifically the shock absorber is intended as a vertical damper to be used between ships that are moored together in an open seaway. By acting as a vertical damper between two ships it is possible to greatly reduce the relative vertical motions between the ships thereby allowing the safe transfer of cargo personnel and vehicles to proceed.

According to an embodiment of the invention a transportation vessel such as a Landing Craft Air Cushion LCAC carrier provides a large level dry deck and substantial space for air cushion vehicle operations. Additionally the entire transportation vessel structure is dedicated to cargo vehicle personnel staging and air cushion loading and unloading operations. is a perspective view of a flow through transportation vessel according to an embodiment of the invention. The vessel may be used as an air cushion vehicle carrier such as an LCAC carrier. shows the vessel having a hull with a forward end and an aft end . shows the general layout of the vessel showing air cushion vehicle carrying features such as a forward ramp having longitudinal guide walls and a continuous deck which includes a substantially uncovered region shown by arrow . also shows an overhead crane structure located above the uncovered portion of the deck the crane positioned to load materials onto the uncovered portion.

As outlined above both the forward and aft ramps and are hinged to the hull via hinge mechanisms. The hinge mechanisms allow the ramps to be deployed from a substantially upright closed position to an open working position as shown in . In the closed position the ramps may be set behind doors that may control the operation of the ramps. Alternatively ramps and may also be doors that are hinged at the base and lowered from the top via a moat like arrangement. When opened the front edges of these two doors ramps pivot into the sea at or below the waterline thus allowing access for the LCACs as outlined below. The ramps and may be solid planar structures that may include perforations particularly in areas at or below the waterline to allow water to flow through these sections and to prevent the flooding of the deck when the ramps move from an open working position to a closed substantially upright position. The flow through transportation vessel may travel at reduced speeds from about 2 knots to about 5 knots while the ramps are being deployed and during other cargo loading activities and the like.

As outlined above the flow through transportation vessel may be used as an LCAC carrier. Additionally according to the invention the forward and aft ramps and may be used as LCAC ramps to facilitate the boarding and launching of LCACs onto and off the vessel . In other words the ramps facilitate movement between the vessel and the open water sea. The continuous deck is a dry deck which may be about 10 feet above the waterline. Deck may be used as an LCAC deck for storing loading off loading and transporting LCACs. In addition to operations supporting LCACs the large level dry deck may have functions related to cargo vehicle personnel staging. For example the deck may store cargo that may be loaded onto the uncovered deck portion via an overhead crane.

The arrangement of the ramps and deck negates any need for ballast down requirements or LCAC elevators. By using both an aft ramp and a forward ramp a circular flow of LCACs is created to speed up the process of reloading LCACs during missions. According to an embodiment of the invention an LCAC is loaded on the deck then departs through the forward ramp delivers its mission payload and then returns to the deck via the aft ramp .

According to a particular embodiment of the invention the aft width d may be about 1.4 times the forward ramp width. Additionally the aft ramp length e may be about 1.5 times the forward ramp length b. According to this embodiment the forward ramp width a is about 50 feet the forward ramp length b is about 100 feet. Additionally the aft ramp length e is about 150 feet and the aft ramp width d is about 70 feet. Additionally the continuous deck width c in the exposed area is about 100 feet to about 120 feet. According to this particular embodiment the aft ramp has an aft ramp angle of about 4 and the forward ramp has a forward ramp angle of about 6 .

The above cited dimensions are geared towards various functions of LCACs and the LCAC carrier. For example the aft ramp width of about 70 feet allows an Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle EFV and an LCAC to simultaneously be on the same ramp. The continuous deck width of about 100 feet to 120 feet allows storage and or operation of two LCACs in a side by side orientation. The aft ramp angle of about 4 allows the LCAC to ascend the aft ramp. Typically LCACs struggle to ascend ramps having slopes steeper than 4 . Typically LCACs have the capability to descend steeper angles than they can climb. Consequently according to this particular embodiment the forward ramp angle is about 6 . With respect to the forward ramp and the LCAC s descent down the forward ramp as illustrated in the forward ramp includes longitudinal guide walls . A forward ramp width of 50 ft allows an LCAC to brush against the longitudinal guide walls to allow for a controlled guided descent down the forward ramp. The controlled descent may be achieved by temporarily reducing air pressure in the LCAC to extend the LCAC beam and permit rubbing against the guide walls . Typically the vessel will be at a low speed about 2 to 5 knots when the ramps are deployed. Although the above described arrangement negates the need for ballasts particularly ballasts associated with well deck arrangements the ship may optionally implement ballasts to maintain the ramps at the desired angles with respect to the surface of the water. A series of ballasts may be employed and a separate ballast control system may also be provided for this purpose.

Step is the deploying of the forward end ramp from the upright storage closed position to the open working position by pivoting the hinged edge outwards so that the front edge extends downwardly at least to about the waterline the forward end ramp inclined at a forward inclination angle . Step is the deploying of the aft end ramp from the upright storage closed position to the open working position by pivoting the hinged edge outwards so that a front edge extends downwardly at least to about the waterline. According to this method the aft end ramp is inclined at an aft inclination angle . The possible ranges for ramp dimensions such as angles of inclination widths and lengths are outlined above in the description of .

Step is the driving from the continuous planar deck one or more air cushion vehicles. These one or more vehicles may initially be in a moving or stationary state. According to this method the one or more vehicles are driven to the forward ramp and down the forward ramp into the body of water. Subsequent to this the one or more air cushion vehicles may be driven up the aft ramp and driven to the continuous planar deck. It should be noted that prior to the deploying of the forward and aft ramps at steps and the flow through vessel may be powered to a low speed of about 2 knots to about 5 knots.

According to this method the air cushion vehicle is preferably an LCAC. Additionally the various method steps outlined above may be performed in any required order. For example steps and may be performed in any desired order. Similarly steps and may be performed in any desired order.

As shown in the vessel includes a vessel hull having a forward end and an aft end . The vessel also includes two side portions . As illustrated in each side portion includes a waterline region defining a region of possible waterlines such as waterline depending on the load carried by the vessel . also illustrates the side portion having a damper region above the waterline region for supporting a plurality of vertical dampers .

The vertical damping device has a lower end and an upper end . The lower end includes a ball joint that cooperates with a socket shown if forming a hinge joint that allows for multi plane pivotal movement. The socket is attached to the side portion . The upper end has a joint member which is preferably a ball joint . The ball joint is designed to cooperate with a joint opening member of another water vessel. As shown in vessel may optionally include joint openings for cooperating with a ball joint of another vessel.

In operation the first and second water vessels moor and with respective fenders contacting each other. This restricts relative movement in the longitudinal and transverse directions but not vertically. The damping device is then moved from the storage position to the operative position via manual means automatic means or a combination thereof. This would involve the opening unlocking of the locking device and the pivoting about the lower end by means of the ball and socket pivot joint combination . If necessary one or more external cranes may be employed to supplement the movement of the vertical damping device from the storage position to the operative position. When the damping device of the first vessel pivots and contacts a side portion of the second vessel the ball joint at the upper end locks into the mating joint opening member which is preferably a socket opening. Joint opening member may utilize manual means automatic means or a combination thereof for locking the ball joint . For example the joint opening may be selectively opened and locked by controlling a flow of electricity to electromechanical elements.

To facilitate proper mating between the ball joint and the joint opening member the joint opening may be vertically adjustable along the side portion of the hull. illustrates tracks along the side portion of the hull the tracks allowing the joint opening member to be slidably displaced to adjust the vertical positioning of the joint opening member . Additionally to provide support for the vertical damping arrangement the side portion of each vessel may include one or more support backing members to dissipate the load transferred from the damper to the ship. Although illustrates only one vertical damping device in an operative position the vertical damping arrangement between the two vessels may involve as many damping devices as required.

One advantage of vertical dampers as outlined above is that they are passive in nature. There is no need for power to make the damper operate but rather the damper operates based upon the energy imparted by the sea. Consequently the dampers use the power of the sea to dampen relative vertical motions initially imparted by the sea itself. The length of the stroke of the cylinder is a function of the calculated maximum relative vertical motions as a function of the ships in question during the maximum desired Sea State.

A number of exemplary implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example suitable results may be achieved if the steps of described techniques are performed in a different order and or if components in a described component system architecture or devices are combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

