---

title: Rifle launcher for small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)
abstract: A launcher system and method for an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), wherein the launcher system comprises a barrel comprising a prepackaged internal pusher cup configured behind the UAV housed within the barrel; an expansion chamber operatively connected around the barrel, wherein the barrel extends out of a first end of the expansion chamber; a muzzle adapter operatively connected to a second end of the expansion chamber, wherein the first end of the expansion chamber is positioned opposite to the second end of the expansion chamber; a rifle slip-fitted to the muzzle adapter; and a stand operatively connected to the expansion chamber, wherein a triggering of the rifle causes the internal pusher cup to push the UAV out of the barrel at a predetermined launch velocity in order to attain a predetermined self-propelled flight trajectory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07849628&OS=07849628&RS=07849628
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07849628
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20070916
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 846 620 filed on Sep. 22 2006 and entitled Rifle Launcher for Small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAVs the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to weapon deployment systems and more particularly to weapon deployment systems used on small unmanned aerial vehicles UAVs .

Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAVs are typically used in military operations such as for surveillance. Typical launchers used for UAVs are generally large cumbersome or costly to use and sometimes require multiple people to operate and require special handling for proper deployment. Conventional launchers for launching small fixed wing UAV s in the military include hydraulic electric rail guns elastic band type launchers pneumatic launchers and hand launchers. However there remains a need for a novel weapons launcher for small UAVs capable of being used by one person in a simple and cost effective manner.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment provides a launcher system for a UAV wherein the launcher system comprises a barrel comprising a prepackaged internal pusher cup configured behind the UAV housed within the barrel an expansion chamber operatively connected around the barrel wherein the barrel extends out of a first end of the expansion chamber a muzzle adapter operatively connected to a second end of the expansion chamber wherein the first end of the expansion chamber is positioned opposite to the second end of the expansion chamber a rifle operatively connected to the muzzle adapter and a stand operatively connected to the expansion chamber wherein a triggering of the rifle causes the internal pusher cup to push the UAV out of the barrel at a predetermined launch velocity in order to attain a predetermined self propelled flight trajectory.

Preferably the stand comprises a bipod stand and is attached to the first end of the expansion chamber and wherein the stand is adapted to support the barrel expansion chamber muzzle adapter and rifle and to orient the barrel at a predetermined elevation angle. The launcher system may further comprise a propulsion source adapted to propel the UAV out of the barrel. Additionally the propulsion source is adapted to propel up to approximately a 1.5 lbUAV at barrel muzzle velocities of approximately 130 ft s and up to approximately 200 g s of linear forward acceleration within approximately 30 inches of travel distance of the UAV. Preferably the rifle comprises any of a M16A2 rifle and a M4 carbine rifle. Additionally the barrel the expansion chamber and the muzzle adapter are dispensable after the UAV is expelled from the barrel. Moreover the expansion chamber may be concentrically dimensioned and configured to partially envelop the barrel. Alternatively the expansion chamber may be concentrically dimensioned and configured to fully envelop the barrel. Furthermore the expansion chamber may comprise a baffle plate dimensioned and configured to reduce barrel pressure and reduce a forward acceleration of the UAV.

Another embodiment provides a system for launching an unmanned projectile wherein the system comprises a barrel comprising the projectile a pusher cup positioned behind the projectile and guide rails adapted to prevent the projectile from rotating in the barrel an expansion chamber operatively connected around the barrel wherein the barrel extends out of a front end of the expansion chamber a muzzle adapter slip fitted to a back end of the expansion chamber a rifle operatively connected to the muzzle adapter wherein the rifle comprises a propulsion source adapted to propel the projectile out of the barrel and a stand operatively connected to the expansion chamber wherein a triggering of the rifle causes the pusher cup to push the projectile out of the barrel at a predetermined launch velocity in order to attain a predetermined self propelled flight trajectory and wherein the triggering causes the pusher cup to exit the barrel.

Preferably the stand comprises a bipod stand and is attached to the front end of the expansion chamber and wherein the stand is adapted to support the barrel expansion chamber muzzle adapter and rifle and to orient the barrel at a predetermined elevation angle. The propulsion source may be adapted to propel up to approximately a 1.5 lbprojectile at barrel muzzle velocities of approximately 140 ft s and up to approximately 600 g s of linear forward acceleration within approximately 30 inches of travel distance of the projectile. Preferably the rifle comprises any of a M16A2 rifle and a M4 carbine type rifle. Furthermore the barrel the expansion chamber and the muzzle adapter may be dispensable after the projectile is expelled from the barrel. In one embodiment the expansion chamber may be concentrically dimensioned and configured to partially envelop the barrel. Alternatively the expansion chamber may be concentrically dimensioned and configured to fully envelop the barrel. Moreover the expansion chamber preferably comprises a baffle plate dimensioned and configured to reduce barrel pressure and reduce a forward acceleration of the projectile.

Another embodiment provides a method of launching unmanned projectiles wherein the method comprises securing a launcher comprising a projectile to a stably grounded stand wherein the launcher comprises a barrel comprising a pusher cup positioned behind the projectile an expansion chamber operatively connected around the barrel a muzzle adapter operatively connected to the expansion chamber and a rifle operatively connected to the muzzle adapter. The method further comprises firing the rifle thereby initiating a pyrotechnic event causing a substantially instantaneous increase in pressure in the expansion chamber and forcing the pusher cup and the projectile to accelerate out of the barrel. Preferably the increase in the pressure creates a dynamic force applied to an upstream side of the pusher cup causing acceleration of the pusher cup and the projectile. Additionally the pusher cup preferably has a higher aerodynamic drag and lower inertia than the projectile wherein as the projectile and the pusher cup exit the barrel the higher aerodynamic drag and lower inertia of the pusher cup causes a rapid deceleration and separation of the pusher cup from the projectile thereby allowing the projectile to continue a ballistic flight path prior to transition to a self propelled flight.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

As mentioned there remains a need for a novel weapons launcher for small UAVs capable of being used by one person in a simple and cost effective manner. The embodiments herein achieve this by providing a compact easy to use and cost effective rifle launcher for small UAVs that is capable of being used for one man operation and can be manually set up for firing. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

The launcher shown in may be configured with an overall length of approximately 76 inches and comprises a barrel an expansion chamber a rifle a muzzle adapter and a bipod stand . Preferably the rifle is a M16A2 rifle or a M4 carbine rifle for example. The barrel is preferably made of a lightweight high strength composite plastic or metal material and may be configured to be approximately 30 inches long with an inside diameter of less than approximately 3.5 inches. Furthermore the barrel may comprise shorter sections that are connected together by connecting mechanisms not shown such as spring pins. The barrel is affixed to the expansion chamber which preferably has an approximately 6 inch outer diameter. More specifically the barrel attaches to the expansion chamber via two endplates two gasket seals and a plurality of each of bolts and nuts . The gasket seals are sandwiched between barrel and endplates . Adapter plate baffle plate a plurality of spacers and a plurality of each of bolts and nuts are attached to the rear of barrel and endplate

Along the interior length of the barrel are two guide rails that prevent projectile rotation and guide a UAV or other projectile not shown as it travels down the barrel upon launch. Additionally the barrel includes a removable expendable cap a pre loaded UAV and a plastic or stiff foam pusher cup allowing for easy storage shipping and transportation of the launcher .

The pusher cup is preferably embodied as a lightweight cup i.e. piston that has an outer diameter slightly smaller than the inner diameter of the barrel thereby providing a low friction pressure sealing feature. Moreover the pusher cup is initially positioned behind the UAV not shown in the barrel thereby providing a uniform surface for the pressurized gases to act upon it thereby insuring a consistent and repeatable launch velocity. Furthermore the pusher cup also has mating guide rail features to interface with the barrel guide rails to guide the pusher cup as it travels down the barrel . During operation the pusher cup simply falls away from the UAV a short distance from the barrel upon exit due to its higher drag and much lower mass compared with the UAV .

The muzzle adapter and nut are affixed to the rear end of the expansion chamber . Upon setup the barrel expansion chamber muzzle adapter assembly is manually connected via slip fit onto the muzzle of the rifle . The bipod stand is attached to the forward end of expansion chamber and supports the launcher on the ground and further orients the launcher at the required elevation angle.

After launching the UAV the rifle can be readied to fire another UAV simply by replacing the barrel expansion chamber barrel adapter assembly . In fact the assembly is intended to be disposable and depending on the situation can either be discarded or used again by preparing the assembly with installation of a new or used pusher cup and used but functional UAV or other projectile.

The expansion chamber is of concentric design whereby the barrel is partially to fully enveloped by the expansion chamber and the major longitudinal axis of both components i.e. barrel and expansion chamber are coincident. Both of these features provide for a compact launcher design of reduced length compared with conventional designs. The length and diameter of the expansion chamber can be customized to provide the required launch velocity and peak launch acceleration for a given launch mass barrel diameter and barrel length. In other words the launcher can be easily modified to support the launch of different projectile designs of differing masses and or diameters. For example experimental data demonstrates that for a given projectile mass barrel diameter and barrel length of 1.5 lbs 3.5 inches and 15.5 inches respectively the resulting projectile launch velocity and peak acceleration is 130 ft sec and 200 g s wherein 1 g 9.8 meters sec Earth s gravitational constant respectively for a chamber length and inside diameter of 19 inches and 5.6 inches respectively.

To setup and operate the launcher first the bipod stand is extended from the forward end of barrel expansion chamber muzzle adapter assembly including an enclosed UAV and pusher cup and placed on the ground while the assembly is manually attached to the muzzle of a rifle such as a M16A2 rifle or a M4 carbine rifle for example. The complete assembly rifle and bipod stand is oriented and secured on the ground. To fire the launcher a standard military M195 blank cartridge is chambered in the rifle and the rifle is cocked. The manual trigger firing of the rifle initiates the pyrotechnic event causing an almost instantaneous increase in pressure in the expansion chamber . As the pressure builds a dynamic force is applied to the upstream side of the pusher cup and both the pusher cup and UAV begin accelerating down the barrel . As the UAV and pusher cup exit the barrel the higher aerodynamic drag and lower inertia of the pusher cup causes the rapid deceleration and separation of the pusher cup from the UAV or other type projectile thus allowing the UAV to continue its ballistic flight path prior to its transition to self propelled flight.

The launcher provided by the embodiments herein offers a compact design ease of use use of a commonly available military type classified and cost effective propulsion sources and its design allows simple one man manual setup and firing. Moreover the launcher provides an instantaneous source of propulsion gas in the expansion chamber created by a very small compact energetic material based ammunition cartridge not shown that is located inside the rifle unique in application to launching small UAV s at relatively low setback accelerations and at relatively high muzzle velocities within relatively short barrel travel distances. Furthermore the relatively quick setup and subsequent launch method provided by the embodiments herein utilizes a pre packaged UAV and pusher cup within an assembly that is dispensable after the UAV is deployed.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

