---

title: Stand-off chemical detector
abstract: A stand-off chemical detector has an array of charge-coupled-device electromagnetic radiation sensing elements. One or more first charge-coupled-device electromagnetic radiation sensing elements of the array are selectively responsive to non-visible electromagnetic radiation having at least a first wavelength, and one or more second charge-coupled-device electromagnetic radiation sensing elements of the array are selectively responsive to non-visible electromagnetic radiation having at least a second wavelength that is different that the at least first wavelength.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08124936&OS=08124936&RS=08124936
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08124936
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20071213
---
The present invention relates to chemical detectors and in particular to stand off chemical detectors.

Chemical compounds such as explosives chemical warfare agents and other hazardous materials pose hazards to conventional military forces and to civilian populations thus making the detection of these compounds imperative. Explosives used in the manufacture of explosive devices such as Improvised Explosive Devices IEDs chemical agents and many hazardous chemicals have unique chemical signatures in the electromagnetic radiation wavelength range between about 1 and about 4 microns. Therefore electromagnetic radiation based chemical detectors are often used to detect such chemical signatures.

Some conventional electromagnetic radiation based chemical detectors used for detecting chemical compounds use expensive and non uniform mercury cadmium telluride HgCdTe detectors various types of quantum well infrared QWIP QWID photodetectors with special cooling needs or Indium Gallium Arsenide InAs GaAs or Indium phosphide InP based detectors to detect chemical compounds in wavelength region between about 1 and about 4 microns. In addition to high manufacturing costs the imaging qualities of these detectors are relatively poor and these detectors require specialized software to accomplish the signal processing.

Another electromagnetic radiation based chemical detection technique up converts mid infrared photons to near infrared photons for detection by standard Charge Coupled Devices CCDs which can image into the near infrared region. Using this technique electron hole pairs are optically generated. On excitation using an electric field the holes escape in the near infrared region while the electrons escape in the mid infrared region. Although this approach has unique advantages it is complex.

Differentiating the unique chemical signatures of target chemical compounds such as explosives chemical agents hazardous chemicals etc. also presents a problem. For example many conventional electromagnetic radiation based chemical detectors use a grating or a Michelson interferometer to break the electromagnetic radiation over the wavelength region between about 1 and about 4 microns into useful spectra. This approach is impractical for high speed high resolution imaging however.

One embodiment provides a stand off chemical detector having an array of charge coupled device electromagnetic radiation sensing elements. One or more first charge coupled device electromagnetic radiation sensing elements of the array are selectively responsive to non visible electromagnetic radiation having at least a first wavelength and one or more second charge coupled device electromagnetic radiation sensing elements of the array are selectively responsive to non visible electromagnetic radiation having at least a second wavelength that is different from the at least first wavelength. For other embodiments the stand off detector may include additional charge coupled device electromagnetic radiation sensing elements that are selectively responsive to one or more additional wavelengths that are different than the at least first and the at least second wavelengths.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. In the drawings like numerals describe substantially similar components throughout the several views. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice these embodiments. Other embodiments may be utilized and structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The radiation is filtered before arriving at each radiation sensing element. For one embodiment each sensing element may be coated with a filter to yield a spectral output or signal with a peak at a certain e.g. predetermined wavelength. For example red blue and green filters may be used to respectively yield spectral signals with peaks for red blue and green light portions of the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum.

For one embodiment additional filters may be used to extend the detection range to the non visible infrared region for detecting chemical compounds such as explosives e.g. n nitroso compounds having chemical signatures at wavelengths in the non visible infrared region. For example infrared filters may be used to yield spectral signals with peaks at wavelengths in the near infrared region e.g. about 0.75 to about 5 microns and mid infrared region e.g. about 5 to about 15 microns . For one embodiment infrared filters may be used to yield spectral signals with peaks at least wavelengths of about 1.2 1.9 2.5 and 3.3 microns. These infrared filters can pass substantially only or only infrared radiation and can block substantially all other radiation. Such filters may include aluminum gallium arsenide blocking layers formed on respective ones of the radiation sensing elements for example.

For another embodiment ultraviolet filters may be used to extend the detection range to the non visible near ultraviolet region e.g. about 0.35 to about 0.2 microns to yield spectral signals with peaks at wavelengths in the ultraviolet region for detecting chemical compounds having chemical signatures at wavelengths in the ultraviolet region. These ultraviolet filters can pass substantially only or only ultraviolet radiation and can block substantially all other radiation. An example of a suitable ultraviolet filter may be a germanium coating formed on respective ones of the radiation sensing elements.

For one embodiment the infrared and ultraviolet filters configure array for detecting radiation with wavelengths of about 0.35 to about 4 microns. For another embodiment the infrared and or ultraviolet filters may be selected to give spectral signals with peaks when chemical components of targeted chemical compounds such as explosives chemical warfare agents hazardous chemicals pollutants or the like are present. For another embodiment array may be cooled e.g. to reduce noise that may result from infrared heating produced by the infrared radiation passed by the infrared filters.

Each of the radiation sensing elements outputs an analog electrical signal in response to receiving the radiation thereat. Sensor array outputs the analog electrical signals to an analog to digital converter that digitizes the analog output of each of the CCD radiation sensing elements to obtain a digital output for each of the CCD radiation sensing elements of sensor array of . Analog to digital converter outputs the digital signals to a digital signal processor for processing.

The digital signals output from analog to digital converter contain an image pattern or mosaic that may include an image pattern in the visible range similar to an RGBG red green blue green Bayer image pattern where the second green is used for intensity and a pattern in the infrared range and or a pattern in the ultraviolet range. For example digital data for each CCD sensor location and thus each pixel location may include a spectral output or signature corresponding to the component of radiation passing through the filter for that CCD sensor location. That is the data may include spectral signatures with peaks at the red green and blue filter locations respectively corresponding to red green and blue radiation components passing through those red green and blue filters. In addition the data may include spectral signatures with peaks at the infrared and or ultraviolet filter locations respectively corresponding to infrared and or ultraviolet radiation components passing through those infrared and or ultraviolet filter locations where the infrared and or ultraviolet spectral signatures are respectively produced by chemical components of one or more chemical compounds in the field of view of detector .

Although filters corresponding to three different wavelengths in the visible or non visible regions of the radiation spectrum are exemplified in and discussed above more than three different visible or non visible wavelengths may be included. For example in the infrared region filters for obtaining spectral signatures with peaks at the wavelengths of about 1.2 1.9 2.5 and 3.3 microns may be used. Note that for various embodiments the image pattern obtained from sensor array may include data corresponding to spectral signatures with peaks for green red and blue radiation and data corresponding to spectral signatures with peaks for infrared radiation and or data corresponding to spectral signatures with peaks for ultraviolet radiation.

Note that since each pixel location corresponding to each CCD sensor location of sensor array is filtered to record only a portion of the total data each pixel location contains data for only a portion of the total data and the remaining portion is missing from each pixel. For example in terms of where the three radiation components c c and care considered each pixel contains of the total data and of the total data is missing from each. Where the three radiation components c c and care respectively green red and blue this means that red and blue are missing from the green green and red are missing from the blue etc. Where the three radiation components c c and crespectively correspond to different chemical components of a target chemical compound cand care missing from c cand c are missing from c etc.

For conventional CCD cameras configured for detecting color images demosaicing algorithms are used to interpolate a set of complete red green and blue values for each pixel from that pixel and its neighboring pixels as is known to those of skill in the art. That is so each pixel contains contributions from the red green and blue. In a similar manner signal processor is configured to use demosaicing algorithms to interpolate a set complete of color and or spectral chemical signature data at each pixel location from that pixel location and its neighboring pixel locations. In other words the demosaiced data at each pixel location is representative of the total content of the electromagnetic radiation that is incident on those charge coupled device electromagnetic radiation sensing elements. A complete set of spectral chemical signature data at a pixel may contain contributions from each of the different infrared wavelength components that pass through the respective infrared filters or from each of the different ultraviolet wavelength components that pass through the respective ultraviolet filters. For example in terms of a complete set of spectral chemical signature data may contain contributions from each of the components c c and c.

After determining a set of complete color and or spectral chemical signature data at each pixel location this pixel data is transmitted to an image processor . Image processor converts the complete set of pixel data into an image file such as a BMP BitMaP file TIFF Tagged Image File Format file JPEG Joint Photographic Experts Group file GIF Graphics Interchange Format file or the like. The image file may then be transferred to a memory of detector for storage to a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD of detector and or to an input output interface of detector such as a USB Universal Serial Bus interface. For other embodiments demosaicing may be performed by image processor rather than signal processor .

For one embodiment memory may also contain computer readable instructions for causing signal processor or image processor to perform the demosaicing of the digital data for each of the CCD sensors for causing image processor to convert the complete set of pixel data into an image file and for causing signal processor and image processor to perform the various methods described below. For another embodiment memory may also contain a look up table of spectral chemical signatures of targeted chemical compounds such as explosives chemical warfare agents hazardous chemicals pollutants or the like.

For one embodiment signal processor may input the spectral chemical signature data at each pixel location into the look up table stored in memory where the spectral chemical signature data is compared to spectral chemical signatures of targeted chemical compounds. If the spectral chemical signature data matches a spectral chemical signature of a targeted chemical compound in the look up table signal processor may cause detector to output an audible and or visual alarm. For one embodiment a visual alarm may involve the illumination of a light or the display of a warning message on display . For another embodiment the message may indicate the name of the chemical compound that is detected.

For other embodiments signal processor may tag the pixels that contain the spectral chemical signatures of the targeted compound so that image processor can assign a certain e.g. predetermined color e.g. that does not typically occur in nature to the tagged pixels. Therefore when an image file from is displayed on display display displays the image field captured by the detector with the portions of the captured image field corresponding to the pixels that were tagged colored the certain color assigned to those pixels and the remaining portions of the captured image field displayed in either their normal colors or gray scale for example. For one embodiment a different color may be assigned for each different targeted chemical compound to enable the identification of different chemical compounds and their locations within the field of view of detector .

For another embodiment image data files of image processor may be input directly into the look up table and image processor may assign certain colors to portions of the image data file that have spectral chemical signatures that match the spectral chemical signatures of the target chemical compounds within the look up table. For some embodiments all of the infrared data may be combined to give the temperatures at different locations within the field of view of detector .

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement that is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. Many adaptations of the embodiments will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Accordingly this application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments. It is manifestly intended that the embodiments be limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereof.

